Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 75 Remuneration report The committee assessed achievement against strategic objectives see Remuneration Committee page 85 and agreed that 68% of those objectives for 2013 14 had Chairmans statement been achieved.
Adjustment of the gross bonus pool for the element On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the directors relating to the achievement of objectives resulted in a final bonus pool of remuneration report which provides details of the remuneration policy, 3 million, a reduction of over 50% compared with 2012 13.
The yearthe remuneration for each of the directors of ICAP plc for the year ended on-year decline in the executive directors bonus pool compares with the 31 March 2014 and the proposals for their remuneration for 2014 15.
4% fall in trading profit before tax.
Remuneration principles The committee used its discretion to allocate the pool between the The Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration policies executive directors, resulting in payments 50% in cash and 50% in and practices have a key role to play in ensuring that all employees are shares of 700,000, 1,300,000 and 1,000,000 to Michael Spencer, effectively incentivised and rewarded and that the Companys risks are John Nixon and Iain Torrens respectively.
This is a reduction in bonus of effectively managed.
ICAPs remuneration policy therefore sets out to provide a framework The matching awards granted under the BSMP in 2011 will lapse as the which is based on the following key objectives: relevant EPS growth target will not be met.
to drive the longer-term success of the Company: New remuneration reporting regulations to reinforce the Companys corporate values and key business This report represents ICAP plcs first opportunity to comply with the objectives: and new directors remuneration reporting regulations introduced last year by the UK government.
to be affordable and flexible while remaining easy to understand and operate.
As required by these regulations, this report is split into two sections: We believe that this policy is important in promoting our fundamental directors remuneration policy this sets out details of ICAPs values and principles.
As a committee we aim to ensure that these remuneration policy for executive directors.
This will be put to a binding principles are applied to the Groups executive remuneration framework.
vote at the 2014 annual general meeting and, subject to shareholder Company performance for 2013 14 financial year approval, will apply from the 2014 annual general meeting: and As in previous years, the executive directors bonus plan was structured annual report on remuneration this gives details of how remuneration as a pool derived from trading profit before tax for the year.
75% of the was paid in respect of the 2013 14 financial year and how we intend to plan relates to the achievement of the financial objective and 25% to the apply our remuneration policy in 2014 15.
This section will be put to an achievement of strategic objectives.
advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
As detailed in the strategic report, market conditions throughout Looking forward 2013 14 were extremely challenging, reflecting a combination of The committee will be undertaking a review of our executive structural and cyclical external factors impacting the global financial remuneration arrangements over the coming year to ensure they industry.
ICAP and its customers also faced an enormous amount of continue to align with the business strategy.
We will consult with major change in the post-financial crisis regulatory landscape.
As a result, the shareholders in respect of any material changes and your views will overall financial performance of the Group did not meet the targeted be welcome.
I will be happy to answer questions on our remuneration policy and the The committee considered at length the impact of the settlements remuneration committees activities at our 2014 annual general meeting, with the CFTC and the FCA in respect of the behaviour of some of and look forward to receiving your continuing support.
our former brokers and their role in the attempted manipulation of yen Libor.
As a result, the trading profit before tax for the year was reduced by the full amount of the exceptional cash costs relating to the yen Robert Standing Libor settlements, resulting in an adjusted trading profit before tax of Chairman 203 million to determine the executive director bonus pool.
Remuneration Committee 14 May 2014 76 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued Activities during the year Remuneration Committee The principal activities and matters addressed by the committee during The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the board to review and the year included: approve proposals to ensure that ICAPs global salary and discretionary bonus plans, revenue-based bonus plans, long-term incentive plans, all the review and approval of the executive directors bonuses for the other reward and employee benefits support the business strategy of year ended 31 March 2014, including assessment of the level of the Group.
achievement of the executive directors objectives for the year: The committees responsibility is the oversight of the remuneration the review of performance against the EPS performance target strategy for the Group, to ensure that ICAPs approach to remuneration is for 2011 BSMP award: aligned with the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply the review and approval of the remuneration of Code staff: with current best practice and regulatory requirements.
Full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
the review of highest earners compensation arrangements across the Group: and The committees principal areas of responsibility are: the review of the impact of the directors remuneration reporting reviewing and approving the overall remuneration policy of ICAP at requirements on ICAP, including development of a revised least every three years unless there are major changes proposed : remuneration report to comply fully with the regulations.
setting remuneration and pension policies for executive directors, senior staff and other key employees: approving any contracts of employment for employees below the board with terms that exceed certain agreed levels of duration, notice period or compensation: ensuring that remuneration proposals are compliant with both the letter and spirit of any local legislation or regulatory guidelines: and to consider any implications for risk management.
Remuneration Committee members and meetings The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the committee is appointed by the board.
The following table sets out the directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
Total Attended Robert Standing chairman 6 6 Hsieh Fu Hua 2 2 Ivan Ritossa 4 4 Diane Schueneman 6 5 Hsieh Fu Hua retired from the board and stood down at the Companys annual general meeting in July 2013.
Ivan Ritossa joined the committee in July 2013 and has attended all meetings since his appointment.
Apologies were received in advance from Diane Schueneman for her unavoidable absence from one committee meeting.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 77 Remuneration policy report The following sections of this report set out our directors remuneration policy the policy, which will be put to shareholders for their approval at the 2014 annual general meeting in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
If approved, the remuneration policy will be effective from 16 July 2014, the date of the 2014 annual general meeting.
All payments will be made in accordance with the approved policy.
The committee recognises that shareholder preference is for the policy to be effective for three years following approval.
However, the committee intends to undertake a full review of the Groups remuneration arrangements during 2014 to ensure that they continue to align with the business strategy.
ICAP will consult with major shareholders in respect of any material changes and submit a revised policy to shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held in 2015.
Future policy table for executive directors The table below summarises the policy in respect of each component of remuneration for executive directors.
Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Operation, performance metrics and maximum opportunity Salary Core element of remuneration reflecting Salaries are reviewed annually in the context of the total remuneration opportunity.
The committee takes individual role and experience.
into consideration a number of factors when setting salaries, including: Salary is intended to be set at an the size and scope of the individuals responsibilities: appropriate level to attract the right the individuals skills, experience and performance: talent into the Group to deliver the typical salary levels for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators: and business strategy.
pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Any increase usually takes effect from 1 April in each financial year.
However, the Remuneration Committee may award increases at any other time as it considers appropriate, for example where an executive director takes up a new role or has a change of remit.
Maximum levels of salary have not been set by the committee but executive director salary increases will normally be in line with the wider employee population.
Higher increases than the average for the wider employee population may be awarded in exceptional circumstances, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, including for a significant increase in scope and or responsibility of the individuals role or rebalancing of fixed and variable pay.
In addition, where an executive director has been appointed to the board at a lower than typical salary, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
There are no performance conditions attached to salary or salary increases, although overall performance of the individual may be one of the considerations in setting salary levels.
Pension Fixed element of remuneration to assist Directors are normally enrolled in the relevant pension plan if any for senior managers in their country employees with retirement planning.
The maximum pension contribution for UK directors is equivalent to 5% of salary.
UK directors may opt out of the defined contribution plan operated in the UK and instead receive an equivalent cash allowance.
A bonus sacrifice arrangement is also offered in the UK.
US directors do not currently participate in any pension arrangements.
Individual arrangements are shown on page 84.
The levels of cash supplement and or employer defined contribution are intended to be below typical market levels due to the close management of fixed costs.
The committee reserves the right to make adjustments to these levels.
78 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Operation, performance metrics and maximum opportunity Benefits Fixed element of remuneration that Executive directors are eligible to receive certain benefits.
Benefits vary by director and may include but provides a competitive and costare not limited to medical, life insurance, car and travel benefits as appropriate to reflect the directors effective benefits package.
The current Group Chief Executive Officer also has the use of a driver.
In order to recognise the unique circumstances of the role and the travel requirements involved, in certain circumstances our executive directors may also be accompanied by their spouse partner on business trips.
This will only be where there is a genuine business reason.
Executive directors may participate in any all-employee arrangements operated in the local market in which the executive director is based, including the SAYE scheme in the UK.
Actual benefits received by each executive director are detailed on page 84 of the report.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional expatriate benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
Where executive directors perform duties outside their home location, ICAP may cover any additional taxation arising in another location as a result of carrying out their global duties and provide assistance with tax return preparation.
While there is no maximum benefit level, benefits are generally set taking into account affordability and local market practice for comparable roles.
Given the complexities of setting an absolute cap on benefits as the cost may vary year to year as a result of, for example, changes in healthcare premiums, the committee has not set a maximum limit for benefits.
However, the committee keeps the benefit policy and levels under review.
It may remove benefits that executive directors receive or introduce other benefits if it considers it is appropriate to do so.
Annual bonus and investment shares The bonus plan incentivises executive Annual bonus awards are made from a pool, the value of which is determined by achievement against directors to achieve the Companys key annual financial and strategic performance targets, which may change from year to year.
Distribution of financial metrics and the Companys the resulting bonus pool between executive directors is at the committees discretion.
strategic objectives, while also The size of the bonus pool for executive directors varies each year, but is subject to a cap determined by aligning their interests with those of the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the relevant financial year.
The cap currently operates at shareholders.
a maximum achievement of 120% of the target financial performance.
Investment of a significant percentage The maximum potential bonus pool for the 2014 15 financial year of 15.21 million is calculated as of bonus in shares closely aligns outlined in the table on page 87. executives with the longer-term Currently, 75% of the bonus is determined based on financial performance, with the balance determined interests of employees and shareholders.
on the achievement of strategic objectives.
There is no payment for performance below a threshold set at the beginning of each financial year.
The size of the pool may be adjusted to reflect changes in the number of participants and other considerations at the discretion of the committee prior to the distribution of the pool.
In particular, the committee reserves the right to adjust the pool to reflect exceptional events.
A significant portion of the bonus currently 50% must be used by the executive director to acquire investment shares under the BSMP.
Sufficient ICAP shares have to be retained for a defined period, currently three years, for the matching shares to vest.
Further details on the applicable performance targets for 2014 15 are provided on page 87 of this report.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 79 Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Operation, performance metrics and maximum opportunity BSMP This is ICAPs long-term incentive Awards of matching shares are normally made annually to executive directors who have agreed to plan to reward sustained Company acquire and or retain investment shares under the terms of the plan approved by shareholders at the performance and the creation of 2012 annual general meeting.
A matching award is granted with a value equal to half of the individuals shareholder value over the longer term.
Awards may be structured in the form of conditional share awards or nil-cost options.
They are subject to achievement of relevant performance measures over a period of three years.
The vesting of awards is subject to achievement of a trading EPS performance condition.
Threshold performance results in vesting of 10% of the award, with full vesting occurring at the maximum performance level set by the committee for each grant.
In all cases, the vesting of the matching shares is subject to the retention of investment shares.
The matching shares must be held by the participant for a period of six months following vesting.
Unvested matching awards may be cancelled or reduced in the case of any of the following: a material misstatement in the Companys financial results and or accounts or an error which has resulted in an excessive award being granted: gross misconduct of the employee reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error: a material failure of risk management: or a material downturn in financial performance.
Participants may receive a payment equivalent to the value of dividends paid on any vested matching award shares when the participant receives those shares.
Shareholding requirements To create alignment with shareholders Executive directors are required to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the by encouraging longer term focus.
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and 300% of base salary for the other executive directors.
Future policy table for the Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Operation and fee levels Non-executive directors fees To attract and retain a high performing The Chairman receives a fee for the role, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman Chairman and non-executive directors is entitled to an additional fee for the chairmanship of the Nomination Committee, but has waived his with the right level of skills, international entitlement to this additional fee.
experience and industry knowledge to The non-executive directors receive an annual fee in respect of their duties.
Further fees may be paid in oversee the business strategy.
respect of chairmanship of board committees.
No fees are paid for membership of a board committee.
Additional fees may be paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of the ICAP SEF entities and or any other subsidiary boards due to the additional time commitment for discharging these roles.
Nonexecutive directors fees are considered and approved by the executive directors and the Chairman.
Fees are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individuals required by the Company.
Fees are reviewed regularly against comparable companies and may be adjusted from time to time.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on benefits.
The Chairman is provided with an office and is reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of a car and driver to assist with the performance of his duties.
The current fee levels can be found in the annual report on remuneration on page 84.
80 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued The committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of Notes to the policy table employees throughout the Group when determining remuneration Legacy matters arrangements for executive directors.
ICAP manages the costs of The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments employment at the corporate level and expects changes in total and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in remuneration for directors to reflect changes in the Companys line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment performance.
Changes in salary are aligned to both policy and practice were agreed: for increases for the wider population in terms of annual increases, market positioning and adjustments for promotions and changes of role.
before the policy came into effect: or Director remuneration is expected over time to correlate with corporate at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the performance and as such has the potential to be much more volatile than Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not the remuneration of the wider population.
in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
The Company does not consult directly with employees on the policy For these purposes payments include the committee satisfying awards but information relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided in of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the regular updates to the committee.
terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Recruitment policy In particular, under the 2003 BSMP, a bonus in lieu of dividend is paid on In determining remuneration for new appointments to the board, the vested but unexercised awards.
committee will apply the following principles: Performance conditions the committee will consider all relevant factors including, but not The performance conditions for the annual bonus and BSMP matching limited to, the calibre of the individual, the external market and existing award are chosen to align directly with the short and long-term strategy arrangements for the Companys current executive directors, with of the business.
a view to ensuring that any arrangements offered are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and without paying any The performance target is set annually by the committee at the start of more than is necessary: and the financial year at a level that takes into account the boards business plans and ensures a level of stretch.
The committee may vary any the committee will seek, as far as possible, to align new executive measures year-by-year to ensure they remain fully aligned with the directors remuneration packages with the remuneration policy as set Companys strategy.
The committee believes that an annual measure of trading profit before Components and approach tax combined with strategic objectives and a longer-term measure Generally, pay on recruitment will be consistent with the usual policy of trading EPS basic continue to be the appropriate performance for executive directors, as set out in the policy table above.
However, conditions for another financial year.
These measures underpin continuing the committee considers it important that the recruitment policy has forward growth in the Groups earnings and promote the long-term sufficient flexibility in order to attract the calibre of individual that the success of the Company.
More detail on the annual bonus and BSMP Company may require to continue to grow a successful business.
measures and targets can be found on pages 84-85.
The committee may, in its absolute discretion, include remuneration Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group and wider components or awards which are not specified in the policy table, where employment conditions necessary.
The committee will ensure that this is done only where there is There are consistent overarching principles of remuneration which apply a genuine commercial need and it is in the best interests of the Company across the Group, as outlined in the chairman of the Remuneration and its shareholders.
The committee commits to explain to shareholders Committees statement.
The Group: the rationale for the relevant arrangements following any appointment.
communicates the business agenda: Where the new appointment is replacing a previous executive director, salaries, pension and total remuneration opportunity may be higher or helps employees enhance individual performance: and lower than the previous incumbent.
For example, if the appointee is drives individual reward by individual performance, with overall spend expected to develop into the role, the committee may decide to appoint driven by business performance.
the new executive director to the board at a lower than typical salary.
Larger increases above those of the wider employee population may Given the nature of our business, there is no single structure of then be awarded over a period of time to move the executive director remuneration that applies consistently to all employees throughout the closer to market level as their experience develops and they prove Group.
For example, the pay structure for brokers is different from that of themselves successful in the role.
However, a significant element of pay is performance linked ensuring that all ICAPs employees are focused on delivering strong On the recruitment of a new executive director, the committee reserves financial results and achieving our strategic goals.
discretion to adjust the size of the bonus pool to take account of a new additional executive director joining the board.
For members of the GEMG and other senior executives in the Group, a proportion of their remuneration is deferred into Company shares, Where an executive director is appointed from within the Group, the incentivising long-term alignment with the interests of shareholders.
normal policy of the Company is that any existing arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following an acquisition of or a merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 81 Maximum level of variable pay Contractual terms The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to a new The Companys usual policy on notice periods is up to 12 months notice executive director in respect of their appointment shall be limited to that from the Company or executive director in order to provide a reasonable set out in the policy table above for each component of remuneration.
balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the This excludes any one-off awards made to compensate the director for need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination awards forfeited from their previous employer see below.
Buy-outs An executive director, however, may initially be hired on a contract In order to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-off requiring the Company to provide 24 months notice which then reduces award to buy-out incentive awards and any other compensation pro rata over the course of the first year of the contract to require arrangements that a new director has had to forfeit on leaving their 12 months notice.
In doing so, the committee will take into account Recruitment of Chairman and non-executive directors all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or nonthe forfeited awards, the likelihood of these conditions being met, the executive director, the remuneration framework will normally be in line proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form with the table on page 79. of the award for example cash or shares.
Where possible, the forfeited awards will normally be bought out on a like-for-like basis.
The committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining any buy-out arrangements.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Executive directors Key terms relating to ICAPs policy in the event of the termination of an executive director are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Notice period Up to 12 months notice by the Company or executive director.
As outlined above, an executive director may be hired initially on a contract requiring the Company to provide 24 months notice which then reduces pro rata over the course of the first year of the contract to require 12 months notice.
Termination payment Contractual entitlement limited to salary and benefits including pension over the notice period.
The Company would normally expect executive directors to mitigate any loss on their departure.
Incentive plans Participation in all incentive plans is non-contractual and at the committees discretion.
Annual bonus The committee may determine that an executive director may be eligible to receive a discretionary time pro-rated annual bonus in respect of the period until cessation of employment, except in respect of any period of garden leave.
In determining whether to award a bonus, the committee will assess performance during the financial year.
The committee reserves the right to make any such payment in cash with no requirement to acquire investment shares.
BSMP The rules of the 2013 BSMP were approved by the Company at the general meeting on 11 July 2012.
Outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The rules relating to termination are summarised here.
Unvested matching awards will vest in the event of death, ill-health, injury or disability, retirement, redundancy, the transfer or sale of the individuals employing company outside of the Group, or any other scenario at the committees discretion other than summary dismissal provided the performance condition has been met.
If an individual leaves before the end of the relevant performance period in other circumstances, his unvested awards lapse.
Awards will vest following the determination of the applicable performance conditions by the Remuneration Committee.
The number of shares which vest will be pro-rated for the time served during the performance period that has elapsed, and will normally be determined by reference to the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied at the point of cessation of employment or such other period as the Remuneration Committee may determine.
82 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued The key termination provisions of ICAPs current executive directors Non-executive directors contracts are set out below: The non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
Michael Spencer They do not have service contracts.
The key terms of the appointments Michael Spencers notice period is 12 months.
He is entitled to receive are set out in the table below: salary and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
His contract includes a pay in lieu of notice clause which allows the Company to make Provision Policy a payment equal to salary and benefits in lieu of any applicable period of Notice period Non-executive directors and the Chairman are notice.
He may be eligible to receive a discretionary bonus.
not entitled to compensation on leaving the board, other than fees in respect of any notice period.
Iain Torrens Iain Torrens notice period is 12 months.
He is entitled to receive salary There is no notice period, other than in the event and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
He is also eligible to of a change of control for non-executive directors participate in the annual bonus plan, except in respect of any period of excluding the Chairman in which case a threegarden leave.
month notice period will apply.
John Nixon Availability of documentation John Nixons notice period is 12 months.
His contract provides for him to Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for receive salary and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
As a US inspection at the Companys registered office.
employee he also remains eligible for a discretionary bonus in respect of his full notice period.
Consideration of shareholder views The committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders On 31 March 2014 John Nixon announced his intention to retire from the and seeks the views of significant shareholders when any major changes board on 31 March 2015. are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The committee takes into account the views of significant shareholders when formulating and The Company has entered into a three-year consulting agreement with John Nixon effective 1 April 2015 to provide advice, support and implementing the policy.
oversight relating to various strategic and new business initiatives as The committee will undertake a review of executive director identified by the Company and provide advice and support relating to the remuneration in 2014 15 and will consult with major shareholders where Companys senior-level customer relationships, including the maintenance any material changes to the current framework are proposed.
Minor amendments For these services ICAP intends to pay John Nixon a monthly consulting The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out fee of $83,333.
above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or His consulting agreement also contains specific provisions relating to to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder non-competition for the duration of the agreement.
Change of control In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding up of the Company, the number of BSMP matching shares which vest will be determined by reference to the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied over the reduced performance period and pro-rated for time, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a higher number of shares should vest.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 83 Charts illustrating the policy The charts below illustrate the remuneration policy for 2014 15 in line with the policy table on pages 77-79.
ICAPs remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of demanding short and long-term performance targets.
The charts show hypothetical values for the remuneration package for executive directors under three performance scenarios: minimum performance fixed elements of pay only, with no bonus award or vesting of BSMP matching shares : performance in line with expectation annual bonus award and vesting of BSMP matching shares for achievement of target performance : and maximum performance 100% award under the annual bonus and full vesting of BSMP matching shares.
Group Chief Executive O cer Michael Spencer Group Finance Director Iain Torrens 12,000,000 6,000,000 5,600,000 10,776,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 32% 32% 8,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 3,000,000 2,279,000 4,410,000 10% 10% 4,000,000 64% 64% 2,000,000 79% 80% 2,000,000 1,000,000 497,000 238,000 100% 11% 4% 100% 10% 4% 0 0 Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum expectation performance expectation performance Fixed pay including pension and benets BSMP Fixed pay including pension and benets BSMP Annual bonus and investment shares Annual bonus and investment shares Notes to the charts Group Executive Director, Americas John Nixon Fixed pay constitutes base salary, benefits and a pension allowance of 5% 8,000,000 of salary for UK directors only.
7,504,000 For annual bonus, some assumptions have been made to generate a 7,000,000 synthetic bonus outcome for performance in line with expectation and 32% maximum performance: 6,000,000 for performance in line with expectation, we have assumed 5,000,000 achievement of target trading profit before tax and 50% achievement of strategic measures: 4,000,000 3,061,000 for maximum performance, we have assumed that the cap under the 3,000,000 10% bonus plan is reached with full achievement of strategic objectives: and 64% 2,000,000 bonus allocation between executive directors is on a discretionary basis 79% and will vary year on year: the allocation shown in the charts is based on 1,000,000 the same ratio as the 2012 13 actual bonuses.
331,000 11% 100% 4% For the BSMP we have assumed 25% vesting of awards for 0 Minimum In line with Maximum performance in line with expectation.
Full vesting is assumed at expectation performance maximum performance.
Fixed pay including pension and benets BSMP The scenarios do not take into account share price growth or dividends.
Annual bonus and investment shares The value of each component has been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
84 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration The information in this section up to and including the statement of directors shareholding and share interests section is subject to audit.
The complete annual report on remuneration is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
b Benefits the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Benefits vary for each executive director but include medical, car and travel benefits.
Michael Spencer also has use of a driver.
Benefits for 2013 have been restated on a like-for-like basis.
c Annual bonus this represents the bonus awarded in respect of the performance year, including the deferred portion.
One half of the bonus amount, after the deduction of tax and costs, is applied in the purchase of investment shares under the 2013 BSMP.
d Pension cash allowance Michael Spencer and Iain Torrens participate in the UK defined contribution plan.
Iain Torrens also participates in the bonus sacrifice arrangement offered in the UK.
As a US-based director, John Nixon does not participate in any pension arrangements.
e Bonus in lieu of dividend the amounts shown reflect payments in lieu of dividends received on the basic and matching awards for 2008 and basic awards and promises granted under the BSMP for 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The elements of John Nixons remuneration that are paid in dollars have been converted to pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for the year of $1.5905 2012 13 $1.5816.
Ivan Ritossa was appointed to the board on 10 July 2013.
Hsieh Fu Hua did not stand for re-election to the board at the 2013 annual general meeting and retired from the board on 10 July 2013.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table 2013 14 annual bonus The 2013 14 bonus scheme was structured to incentivise executive directors to increase profit and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
As such the bonus scheme includes a profit level below which no bonus is payable, a payout curve which increases up to the target level and a maximum level above which no additional bonus is payable.
The scheme is structured so that increasing upside is made available to executive directors for growing the Groups profitability by achieving trading profit before tax in line with the 2011 12 figure 354 million, adjusted for RPI plus 3% growth per annum.
This is consistent with the objective of the plan to reward long-term growth.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 85 For 2013 14, the payout curve is shown below.
The bonus pool was Product innovation: successful launch of ICAP SEF, expansion of EBS capped at a maximum achievement of 120% of the target profit figure.
platform and integrated e-commerce and web delivery strategy being successfully implemented.
Marginal bonus Trading profit rate for People development: significant progress in learning and development before tax 2013 14 Tier m % focusing on culture, leadership and compliance: improvements in broker productivity.
1 0 79 0 Operational efficiency: global procurement function created with 2 80 159 2.75 significant savings realised, reduction in infrastructure headcount and 3 160 239 3.50 costs and enhanced finance systems.
4 240 318 4.25 Governance: operational risk ownership embedded in the business, large 5 319 375 5.00 amounts of regulatory change implemented, business model analysed to identify and minimise risks, Group-wide training on risk and compliance 6 376 450 10.00 matters implemented and addressed the business and cultural impact of 7 451 0 the yen Libor settlements.
The gross bonus pool is calculated from this schedule, reduced by 12.5% Adjustment of the gross bonus pool relating to the achievement of to reflect the current participation level of three executive directors.
objectives resulted in a bonus pool of 3 million.
This pool has been allocated between the executive directors as follows: Of the total bonus pool, 75% relates to achievement of the financial Total objective and 25% to achievement of the strategic objectives over which Executive director bonus the committee exercised its judgement as to the level of achievement.
Michael Spencer 700,000 While the trading profit before tax achieved in the year was 272 million, John Nixon 1,300,000 for the purposes of calculating the bonus pool the trading profit was reduced by the full amount of the exceptional cash costs relating to the Iain Torrens 1,000,000 yen Libor settlements, resulting in an adjusted trading profit figure of 203 million.
50% of the total bonus must be used by the executive to acquire investment shares under the BSMP.
The committee agreed that 68% of the strategic objectives for 2013 14 had been achieved.
2011 BSMP matching award The BSMP matching award granted in 2011 is subject to a performance The objectives assessed by the committee for the year ended 31 March condition based on trading EPS growth over the three financial years 2014 were based on six equally weighted key areas: to 31 March 2014.
The matching award is released only if trading EPS Strategy development: delivery of a three step plan, taking account of has grown by at least 9% above RPI over the three financial years to regulatory changes with a potentially favourable effect from a business 31 March 2014. perspective balanced by additional demands on capital and other As the Companys trading EPS fell by 17% over the three-year period the resource requirements.
Customer alignment: understanding of customer needs significantly improved and reflected in take up and revenue increases in new products.
Details of share awards granted in the year 2013 BSMP matching award On 22 May 2013, BSMP matching awards were granted to the three executive directors as shown in the table below.
Threshold vesting Maximum vesting End of performance Type of award Number of shares Face value % of face value % of face value period Michael Spencer Nil-cost option over ordinary 10p 406,698 1,390,000 shares in the Company 31 March John Nixon Conditional share award 283,811 970,000 10% 100% 2016 Iain Torrens Nil-cost option over ordinary 10p 212,127 725,000 shares in the Company The face value of awards is based on the average closing share price for the five business days following the preliminary announcement of 2012 13 results 3.4058.
The committee selected trading EPS as the appropriate performance condition on the basis that it safeguards the progress that has been made in the Groups performance and underpins continuing forward growth in the Groups earnings and therefore promotes the long-term success of the Company.
The performance condition for the 2013 BSMP matching award is based on graduated vesting where 10% of the matching award will vest at RPI 6% per annum, increasing to 100% vesting at RPI 15% per annum over a three-year period.
Where awards have been granted in the form of options, the exercise price of the nil-cost option is 1.
The exercise period for these options will commence on the day of the announcement of the Companys annual results for the financial year ending on 31 March 2016 and will last for a period of five years.
86 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued SAYE options During the year, Iain Torrens participated in the HMRC approved ICAP plc 2008 Sharesave Scheme SAYE, under which participants may be granted options at a 20% discount to market value at grant.
Options granted under the SAYE are not subject to a performance condition.
On 13 June 2013, 3,308 options over ordinary shares in the Company were granted to Iain Torrens at an option price of 2.72.
The exercise period for the options will commence on 1 August 2016 and will last for a period of six months to 31 January 2017.
Payments to past directors No payments to past directors have been made in the year.
Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office have been made in the year.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests In 2012 the committee introduced minimum shareholding guidelines for executive directors and members of the GEMG.
These shareholdings will be built up over time and, for these purposes, will include vested share awards under long term incentive plans but will not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under long term incentive plans or any unexercised options.
Shares that count towards the guideline are those that are beneficially owned and shares that are held by the ICAP Trust in respect of BSMP basic awards and any vested matching awards.
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and for the other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
Each executive director had exceeded their target as at 31 March 2014, based on the share price at the close of business on that date.
The table below details the share interests of the directors in office at 31 March 2014.
Directors share interests Outstanding Outstanding Share Share Outstanding unapproved SAYE interests interests BSMP awards options with options without as at as at with performance performance performance Director Note 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 condition condition condition Charles Gregson 229,612 223,596 Michael Spencer 1,2 3,120,668 2,894,930 2,275,342 3,284 John Nixon 3 209,386 68,951 1,183,823 250,000 Iain Torrens 427,211 307,758 513,169 3,308 Ivan Ritossa 4 Diane Schueneman John Sievwright 20,000 20,000 Robert Standing 10,000 10,000 Note: 1.
Details of Michael Spencers shareholding, including his connected parties, are set out in a note to the substantial shareholders section on page 73.
The outstanding BSMP awards with performance condition include the 2008 BSMP matching award which has vested and remains unexercised.
Under the BSMP John Nixon received the basic award as a promise of shares that will be released automatically to him at the time of vesting over the following number of shares: 476,852 awarded in 2011 and 423,160 awarded in 2012.
Hsieh Fu Hua did not stand for reelection to the board at the 2013 annual general meeting and retired from the board on 10 July 2013.
He held no shares as of 31 March 2013 nor at his date of retirement.
Between 31 March 2014 and 12 May 2014 there were no transactions in the Companys shares by the directors.
External appointments The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits to both the Company and to our executive directors of serving as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to take on non-executive directorships with other companies with the approval of the Nomination Committee.
Any fees arising from such appointments would be retained by the individual.
Michael Spencer received a fee of 100,000, which he retained, for his directorship of Tungsten Corporation plc.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 87 Total shareholder return Change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive The total shareholder return on a holding of the Companys ordinary Officer compared to other employees shares compared with the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded indices for the five financial years to 31 March 2014 is shown in the to the Group Chief Executive Officer and all other employees of the graph below.
As a constituent of the FTSE 100 index from June 2006 to Group between 2012 13 and 2013 14.
September 2012, the Company considers both the FTSE 100 and the Salary Benefits Bonus FTSE 250 the appropriate indices for comparison.
Group Chief Executive Officer 0% 8% 75% During this period the performance conditions for the long term All other employees 2.5% 5% 11.5% incentive awards made in 2009, 2010 and 2011 were not met.
Executive directors therefore did not receive the shares relating to Relative importance of spend on pay these awards.
2013 14 2012 13 Change Performance graph value of 100 invested m m % Five financial years ended 31 March 2014 Total remuneration 771 824 6 Dividends 141 141 0 350 rebased to 100 Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy 300 in the coming year No changes to salary, benefits or pension arrangements for executive 250 directors have been made with effect from 1 April 2014.
200 The 2014 15 bonus plan retains a similar structure to the 2013 14 bonus plan.
The threshold for the bonus pool has been adjusted to reflect 150 RPI growth in the past year, with corresponding increases in each of the thresholds.
100 The marginal rates at which the bonus pool accrues have been reduced 50 for 2014 15 to reflect the current number of participants in the pool.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consistent with the approach taken in 2013 14, the tier 6 threshold has ICAP FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share been held at the profit level for 2011 12 354 million adjusted for RPI plus 3% growth per annum.
This is consistent with the original objective of the plan to reward long-term growth and provides a strong incentive Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer to rebuild the Groups profitability.
6 361 433 8.75 7 434 0 Of the gross bonus pool, 75% relates to the achievement of the financial objective as set out in the table above and 25% to the achievement of the strategic objectives over which the committee will exercise its discretion as to the level of achievement.
The strategic objectives for the year ending 31 March 2015 will be based on the six strategic priorities described on pages 18 and 19.
88 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Remuneration report continued The targets set for the strategic performance measures are commercially Support to the committee sensitive and as permitted by the regulations are not being disclosed in Details of the committees responsibilities and membership during the advance.
Further details will be provided in next years annual report with year are shown on page 76. as much context as possible on performance against those targets and The committee is supported by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the resulting bonus outturn within commercial constraints.
Group Finance Director, the Group Head of HR and the Group The bonus pool for 2014 15 will continue to be allocated between the Company Secretary.
executive directors on a discretionary basis.
The committee received external independent advice from Deloitte LLP BSMP at one committee meeting in relation to the drafting of the remuneration Of the 2013 14 bonus pool, half will be paid in cash.
In order to be eligible report in line with the new regulations.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the for the BSMP, the executive directors will be required to acquire shares Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under in the Company with the remainder of their after tax bonus amount as the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in investment shares.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company.
The committee is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte LLP was independent as A matching award of shares will be granted under the 2013 BSMP it was factual and not judgemental.
The total fee in respect of the advice to executive directors with a value equal to half their pre-tax cash was 8,000.
Deloitte LLP also provided tax, consulting and corporate bonus.
This matching award will be released in 2017 if the executive finance services to ICAP during the year.
director to whom the award was made has retained the investment shares purchased with his net of tax bonus amount and the trading EPS Statement of voting at the 2013 annual general meeting performance condition s has been met, subject to the rules of the plan At the 2013 annual general meeting held on 10 July 2013 votes cast in see page 81. respect of the remuneration report were: To approve the directors remuneration report 10% of the 2014 BSMP matching award will vest for growth of RPI 6% Total number of votes Votes cast per annum, increasing to 100% vesting at RPI 15% per annum over the three-year period to 31 March 2017.
Vesting of the award will be For 482,641,326 95.39% pro-rated on a straight-line basis for performance between RPI 6% Against 23,340,763 4.61% per annum and RPI 15% per annum.
Number of votes cast 505,982,089 The 2013 BSMP was approved by shareholders at the annual general Votes withheld 5,845,458 meeting in 2012.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees The committee is pleased to note that more than 95% of our The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at shareholders approved the 2012 13 remuneration report.
1 April 2014: Position Fee Chairman 300,000 Non-executive director 80,000 Additional fees Senior independent director 10,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Risk Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5,000 Membership of the ICAP SEF board and or any other subsidiary board 15,000 $25,000 Charles Gregson waived his entitlement to the additional fee for his role as chairman of the Nomination Committee.
There are no fees paid for membership of board committees.
Additional fees will be paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of the ICAP SEF entities due to the additional time commitment for discharging this role.
