strateGic report Governance Financial statements stateMent of IMpLeMentatIon of reMUneratIon poLICY In foLLoWInG fInanCIaL Year The proposed salaries for the Managing Directors for the 2014 15 financial year are set out below, together with the increase from the previous financial year.
Salaries and fees 000 Managing Director Y E 31 March 2015 Y E 31 March 2014 % change Christophe Evain 360.0 350.0 2.86 Philip Keller 360.0 350.0 2.86 Benot Durteste 360.0 350.0 2.86 For 2014 15, the Annual Award Pool will be calculated as a percentage of cash profits which, over a period of five years, will not exceed 30% on average.
The Annual Award Pool will be calculated as described in the Directors remuneration policy.
All incentives excluding TPC and similar arrangements in respect of business acquisitions or ICG direct investment funds that do not give rise to a cost or liability to the Group payable to employees of the Group will be funded out of the Annual Award Pool.
The Managing Directors annual bonus and other incentives will be dependent on them achieving the objectives set for them in the following areas: Fundraising and growth Investment performance Risk management measures Financial performance People and performance management reMUneratIon CoMMIttee CoMposItIon, reMIt anD operatIon The Committee is authorised by the Board to determine and agree the framework for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Company, the Managing Directors and such other members of the executive management as it is instructed by the Board to consider and is also responsible for determining the total individual remuneration package of each Managing Director, having given due regard to the contents of the Code, as well as the Listing Rules.
The Committee is responsible for determining targets for any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company as well as the policy for pension arrangements for each Managing Director.
The Committee is responsible for the overall remuneration policy for all the Groups staff and takes into account the requirement that the remuneration arrangements should: Be consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage excessive risk taking Be in line with the strategic priorities, objectives, values and long term interests of the Group Include measures to avoid conflict of interest Take into account the long term interests of shareholders, investors and other stakeholders Be formulated on the basis of advice from ICG Groups compliance function, particularly in relation to performance measurement The Committee comprises five independent Non Executive Directors: Peter Gibbs Chairman Justin Dowley Lindsey McMurray Kevin Parry Kim Wahl None of the Committee members have any personal financial interests other than as shareholders or investors in ICG funds, conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships or day to day involvement in running the business.
The Company therefore considers that it complies with the Code recommendations regarding the composition of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and more frequently if necessary.
Managing Directors attend the meetings by invitation and the Committee consults the Managing Directors about its proposals and has access to professional advice from outside the Company.
The Head of Human Resources also attends the meetings by invitation.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
A table showing the number of Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance record of individual Directors can be found in the Corporate Governance section on page 51.
