ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATIONRepORT There have been no major changes in the We are comfortable that staff reward remains way that we remunerate our staff during the strongly linked to the performance of the course of 2013 14 although we have made business and that: minor amendments to the definition of cash The link of the AAP to cash profit ensures profit to ensure that the remuneration of staff remain focused on the delivery of existing staff was not adversely affected by successful investment outcomes the development of our in house distribution team and to correct an anomaly relating to A significant proportion is delivered in the treatment of rolled up interest.
These are shares to align employee interests with detailed later in the report.
those of shareholders peter GIBBs Business performance has been much The majority of the variable pay is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee improved in FY14: subject to deferral of which an element is linked to the performance of the Third party assets under management up Investment Company 8% to 10.7bn Dear shareholder Although we have not consulted Record level of fundraisings at 3.8bn shareholders on any specific aspect of I am pleased to present the Directors Record level of realisations bringing in remuneration this year we have regular remuneration report for the financial year proceeds of 1.1bn dialogue with our major shareholders when ended 31 March 2014.
This is in a different we discuss remuneration.
format from previous years, reflecting the Cash core income increasing to 231.7m new requirements brought in by Schedule8 versus 39.9m in FY13 I hope that you will find our new look report to the Large and Medium-sized Companies informative.
I look forward to your support at Strong progress in delivering product and and Groups Accounts and Reports the AGM where I will be happy to address geographic diversification Amendment Regulations 2013. any questions you may have.
Significant investment in new staff In accordance with the new regulations, peter GIBBs average headcount increased by 21.1% the Directors remuneration report is in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee three parts: this statement, the Directors 23 May 2014 This has had a significantly positive impact remuneration policy and the Annual report on on the AAP which is 101.7m this year remuneration.
The Directors remuneration compared with a negative 3.2m in FY13 policy will be put to a binding shareholder which, in turn, showed a decline from vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM 49.5m from FY12.
We are not proposing on 23 July 2014: the Annual report on to distribute the full amount of the AAP remuneration together with this statement is available for FY14.
The proposed incentive subject to an advisory vote at the AGM in the awards for FY14 are estimated at 14.8% of same way as in the past.
cash profit, resulting in a three year rolling average of 20.6% since the inception of the Our remuneration philosophy is to reward Plan in FY12.
our employees in a similar manner to private equity businesses so that we are Cash profit, by its very nature, is highly able to recruit and retain people of the right volatile and for this reason we measure the calibre to achieve our business objectives.
AAP on a rolling basis over a five year period.
All variable remuneration earned by our The Remuneration Committee believes staff other than third party carry and similar that 30% is an appropriate rolling average arrangements which do not give rise to a percentage of cash profit to distribute liability on the Company is payable out of the as variable pay under the AAP at the Annual Award Pool AAP which we target present time but, if changes in the Groups at an average of 30% of cash profit over business model indicate that a different a rolling five year period.
Cash profit is an percentage is warranted, the Remuneration important measure of how well were running Committee would enter into dialogue with our business.
major investors to determine what that level should be.
