76 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT balancing the interests of employees and long-term shareholders.
The annual bonus for the executive directors is targeted 50 50 between Our reward targets financial measures and personal objectives linked to achievement of incentivise the delivery the Groups strategy.
The maximum of our strategy over the possible outcome on the personal short and long term.
objectives is capped at the amount achieved under the financial measures element.
Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three years in Company shares.
These shares are eligible for a matching award subject to performance conditions.
Both the matching awards and the LTIP scheme are designed to motivate and reward Tony Hales longer-term performance and Chairman incentivise absolute shareholder value-creation through a mix of measures.
At the 2014 AGM, we received strong Committee members Dear shareholder, support from our shareholders for our Tony Hales Chairman I am pleased to introduce the first Directors Remuneration Policy Nicholas Page Directors Remuneration Report for under the new reporting regulations, Richard Moat the year ended 31 December 2014, with a 97.1% vote in favour.
This Cathryn Riley which has been prepared by the followed an assurance published on Remuneration Committee and our website in relation to the use of approved by the Board.
discretion in retention arrangements, which is intended to be binding Remuneration for 2014 throughout the duration of the policy.
During 2014, our strategic priorities The Directors Remuneration Policy continued to evolve.
We intend to included in this report is as approved create long-term shareholder value at the AGM, and is reproduced in full through sustainable profit growth.
We for both ease of reference and in are expanding our geographic order to provide context for the footprint, adding new product decisions taken by the Committee channels and broadening our during the year, although it has been product portfolio to give more choice updated to reflect the latest data to our existing customers and to and also the assurance mentioned serve a wider range of consumer above.
The approved policy includes segments.
We are also modernising provisions for recovery of our home collected business model performance-related remuneration, through our T4G programme to as required by the 2014 Corporate create more sustainable and Governance Code.
We do not incremental profitable growth intend to move a resolution to opportunities.
approve any changes to the policy at the 2015 AGM.
Our remuneration structure is intended to strike an appropriate We were also very pleased about the balance between fixed and variable high level of support for our new components, which provide a clear Group-wide, all-employee share link between pay and our key scheme at the AGM.
Executive director is that this has a powerful effect in and senior management rewards creating a sense of alignment and have a substantial performance ownership across the business and is related element, with targets also a contributor to some of awards incentivising the delivery of our received by the Company during the strategy over the short and long term, course of the year.
Aligned to strategy Corporate Governance 77 More disappointing was the In addition, we are delighted that At the AGM in April 2015: outcome of the vote on the 2013 Dan OConnor joined the Board as the Directors Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration, with non-executive director and will not be put to a binding only a 63.4% vote in favour, including Chairman-elect on 2 January 2015. shareholder vote having received votes cast at the proxys discretion.
Dans initial fee is 55,000 p. a. the 97.1% approval at the 2014 AGM: Feedback from shareholders standard fee payable to nonand suggested the dissent reflected two executive directors, but will be factors: the Chief Executive Officers increased to 200,000 p. a. the same the Annual Report on 7.9% salary increase for 2014 and his as the current Chairmans fee, Remuneration will be put to an exceptional PSP award of 150% of following Christopher Rodrigues advisory shareholder vote.
In light of this result, I retirement and Dans appointment We hope to receive your support at wrote to our top ten shareholders to as Chairman at the 2015 AGM.
provide some additional context Chairmans fee was last increased on around the remuneration decisions 1 October 2013 and is not intended made by the Committee during 2013, to be reviewed before 2016. and offered an opportunity to discuss There will be no substantial changes further.
We reiterated the in remuneration policy for 2015.
All commitment to consult with major Tony Hales maximum opportunities will remain shareholders ahead of any future Chairman the same in 2015 as in 2014. awards of an exceptional nature under the LTIP.
Remuneration disclosure Details of the remuneration decisions This report complies with the for 2014 are set out in the Annual requirements of the Large and Report on Remuneration starting on Medium-sized Companies and page 85 In summary, for the year Groups Regulations 2008 as ended 31 December 2014, profit amended in 2013, the provisions of before tax and exceptional items was the UK Corporate Governance Code 123.5 million.
In addition, the Group September 2014 and the Listing made good progress against its Rules.
strategic objectives including Consistent with last year, the report is launching a new digital lending in two sections: channel and introducing new products.
This resulted in a total 74.2% the Directors Remuneration Policy of the Chief Executives maximum pages 78 to 85.
This section bonus 74.2% of salary, 52.2% of the contains details of the Chief Financial Officers maximum remuneration policy that received bonus 52.2% of salary and 74.2% of shareholder approval at the 2014 the Chief Commercial Officers AGM, held on 30 April 2014: and maximum bonus 74.2% of salary the Annual Report on paying out for 2014, with one-third Remuneration pages 85 to 95. delivered in cash and two-thirds This section sets out details of how deferred in Company shares as per our remuneration policy was the approved policy.
implemented for the year ended 31 December 2014 and how we Key decisions for 2015 intend for the policy to apply for The Committee has increased the the year ended 31 December base salary of two of the executive 2015. directors by 1% with effect from 1 April 2015 which is in line with the anticipated award to UK employees.
78 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that received shareholder approval and became effective on 30 April 2014.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report except for a number of minor clarifications as follows: references to financial years have been updated as appropriate: pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2015 salaries and a more appropriate long-term incentive vesting level for on target performance: the section on Directors service agreements has been updated with details of current directors service contracts and engagement letters: and the scope for making ad hoc awards has been clarified, as per the assurance published in April 2014 available on the AGM section of the Companys website.
Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors How the element supports our Performance metrics used, weighting and time period strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold applicable Base salary To attract and retain talent Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Normally salary increases take into account increases awarded across the Group None, although overall performance of the capable of delivering the and are normally in line with increases awarded to UK employees.
individual is considered by the Committee when Salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes are effective generally from 1 April in the financial Groups strategy.
setting and reviewing salaries annually.
By exception, higher awards may be made at the Committees discretion to reflect Rewards executives for the individual circumstances.
For example: Salary levels are set taking into account role, experience, responsibility and performance, both of the performance of their role.
individual and the Company, and also taking into account market conditions and the salaries for changes to role which increase scope and or responsibility: comparable roles in similar companies.
development and performance in the role: and responding to competitive market pressures.
There is no prescribed maximum increase.
Pension To provide retirement The Company operates a stakeholder scheme: at the discretion of the Committee, this may be paid as a Company contribution is 20% of base salary.
The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme to new members.
David Broadbent is a deferred member.
Benefits To provide marketThe Company pays the cost of providing the benefits on a monthly, annual or one-off basis.
The standard benefit package includes: None.
competitive benefits that All benefits are non-pensionable.
life assurance of 4x salary: support the executive car allowance: directors to undertake their long-term disability cover: role.
private medical cover for executive director and immediate family: and annual medical.
Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Annual bonus To motivate and reward Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Remuneration Committee Maximum opportunity: 100% of base salary.
Performance is measured over the financial year.
sustainable profit growth after the year end based on performance against those targets.
On target opportunity: 80% of base salary.
Performance is assessed using the following and the achievement of The Remuneration Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, amend the bonus pay-out should this criteria: 50% is based on achievement of financial Threshold opportunity: 20% of base salary.
specific personal objectives not, in the view of the Committee, reflect overall business performance or individual contribution.
measures: and 50% is based on achievement of linked to the Companys personal objectives linked to achievement of the Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three years in Company shares.
The remaining third is strategy.
The award for achievement of paid in cash.
Payments are made around three months after the end of the financial year end to which An element of compulsory personal objectives is conditional upon they relate.
deferral to provide a link to achievement of the financial measures i. e. the Deferred shares normally vest after three years and may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of the creation of sustainable maximum achievable on the personal objectives share capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
cannot exceed the amount achieved under the On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends financial measures element.
paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
There are provisions for clawback in the event of a restatement or material misjudgement of performance.
Corporate Governance 79 Executive directors The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account Group performance, individual performance and competitive market practice as well as the pay and conditions of the Groups employees and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals.
The total annual remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, a cash bonus and deferred bonus shares, shares granted under long-term incentive plans, pension provisions and other benefits.
80 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued How the element supports our Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and time period strategic objectives applicable Deferred Share Plan DSP Share Matching Scheme To strengthen the link to the Deferred bonus share awards are eligible to receive matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
Vesting is dependent on service and performance conditions.
Matching shares vest on the same basis as for creation of sustainable the PSP and CSOP.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have been met, Maximum opportunity: one-for-one match on awarded shares two-thirds of bonus long-term value creation and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the targets are no longer earned.
This is equivalent to up to 67% of salary for executive directors.
provided under the appropriate, the Committee may adjust them.
25% of the award vests at threshold performance.
deferred element of the Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
The DSP has provision for clawback in the event of restatement of the Companys Financial Statements or a material misjudgement of performance.
Long-term Incentive Plans LTIP Performance Share Plan PSP and Approved Company Share Option Plan HMRC approved CSOP To motivate and reward Annual grant of awards, part of which are under the CSOP, generally made as nil-cost options over a In normal circumstances, annual award levels for executive directors are 125% of base Service and performance conditions must be longer-term performance, specific number of shares.
salary at the time of grant.
and support shareholder The rules of the plan permit annual individual grants of up to 150% of base salary.
Performance is assessed against three The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have been met, alignment through independently measured metrics which are and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the targets are no longer The Committee retains the discretion to make awards up to the individual limit under incentivising absolute weighted equally: appropriate, the Committee may adjust them.
the plan and would expect to consult with significant investors if awards were to be shareholder value-creation.
Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
made routinely above normal levels, as the Committee did prior to increasing award 1 3 absolute TSR performance: levels for 2013.
On vesting, 50% of shares that vest are available for exercise immediately and 50% are available 12 months 1 3 cumulative EPS growth: and later.
1 3 growth in revenue less impairment.
On exercise of a nil-cost option following the first anniversary of the end of the vesting period, executive 25% of the award vests at threshold performance.
The targets are set by the Committee.
Details of directors receive an amount in cash equal to the dividends paid or payable in the 12 month period the targets for awards granted in 2014 are set out following vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The PSP has provisions for clawback in the event of restatement of the Companys Financial Statements or a Targets for future years will be set out in the material misjudgement of performance.
Directors Annual Remuneration Report of the relevant year.
A six-month averaging period is used for calculating TSR.
All-Employee Share Plan SAYE To provide an opportunity UK-based executive directors are entitled to participate in a UK tax approved all-employee plan, The Participation limits are those set by the UK tax authorities from time to time.
for executive directors to International Personal Finance plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, under which they this is 500 per month.
invest voluntarily in the make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over Company Company.
shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Shareholding requirement To support shareholder Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time.
The current shareholding requirement for executive directors is 200% of base salary.
alignment by encouraging Shares which have vested unconditionally under the Companys equity schemes will be taken into account our directors to align with with effect from the date of vesting but not before.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Companys equity incentive schemes net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage selfWith the consent of the Board, executive directors may hold one non-executive directorship in an individual development and allow for capacity and will retain any fees earned.
the introduction of external insight and practice.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply LTIP Awards made in 2011 and 2012 To motivate and reward The outstanding awards under the LTIP will continue to form part of the remuneration policy until vesting.
Absolute TSR growth measure only, subject to the longer-term performance, Committee being satisfied that the Companys and support shareholder absolute TSR performance is a fair reflection of alignment through the performance.
Corporate Governance 81 How the element supports our Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and time period strategic objectives applicable Deferred Share Plan DSP Share Matching Scheme To strengthen the link to the Deferred bonus share awards are eligible to receive matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
82 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Non-executive directors The Board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
The Remuneration Committee under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director reviews the Chairmans fees.
Fees were last increased on 1 October 2013 for the Chairman and 1 January 2014 for the non-executive directors.
Summary of remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose Operation Fees To attract and retain a Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of high-calibre Chairman and days worked.
non-executive directors by The level of the Chairmans fee is reviewed periodically by the Committee offering market competitive in the absence of the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies or to reflect changes in scope of role and or responsibility.
As approved at the 2014 AGM, the maximum annual aggregate fee level for all non-executive directors allowed by the Companys Articles of Association is 650,000.
The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Any non-executive director who performs services which, in the opinion of the Board, go beyond the ordinary duties of a director may be paid such additional remuneration as the Board may authorise.
Fees are paid on a quarterly basis.
Shareholding To support shareholder Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial requirement alignment by encouraging shareholding equivalent to 100% of their directors fee within three years of our directors to align with appointment.
Notes to the policy table Performance measures and targets The Committee selects annual bonus performance conditions that are central to the achievement of the Companys key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
To balance this, the performance conditions for the LTIP are linked to long-term value creation: TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation: EPS provides strong line-of-sight for executives and supports the Companys long-term strategy.
Revenue less impairment supports the Companys focus on sustainable growth.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee and are set typically at a level that is stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are normally set with reference to a range of data points, including the budget, broker forecasts, historical performance, and incentive performance ranges at the Companys comparators, where disclosed.
The Board is of the opinion that the performance measures and targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive in respect of the Company and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them during the financial year.
This is particularly so because the majority of the Companys competitors are unlisted.
Corporate Governance 83 Total remuneration opportunity The tables below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2015 in line with the remuneration policy above and include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives.
The tables provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value of each component.
Benefits are calculated as per the single figure of remuneration.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Fixed, On target and Maximum.
CEO CCO CFO Fixed Fixed 0.6M Fixed 0.4M 0.4M On target On target On target 1.3M 0.8M 0.8M Maximum Maximum 2.1M Maximum 1.4M 1.3M 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Base salary Benets Pension Annual bonus Matching shares LTIP The charts are indicative, as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Fixed: fixed remuneration only i. e. latest known salary, benefits and pension.
On target: fixed remuneration plus on target annual bonus 80% plus threshold PSP DSP matching shares vesting assumes deferral of two-thirds of target bonus into DSP.
The vesting assumption for the PSP and DSP has been changed from last years assumption from midpoint vesting 62.5% of maximum to threshold vesting 25% of maximum in order to align better with market practice.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus full payout of all incentives i. e. 100% of salary in annual bonus, 125% of salary in PSP and 67% of salary in DSP matching shares.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
Starting salary will be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy, based on a combination of market information, internal relativities and individual experience.
Thereafter, salary progression will depend on the initial agreed base salary and the normal review process.
The maximum level and structure of ongoing variable remuneration will be in accordance with the approved remuneration policy detailed above, i. e. at an aggregate maximum of up to 317% of salary 100% annual bonus, 150% PSP shares and 67% matching shares under the DSP.
This limit does not include the value of any buyout arrangements.
For external appointments, it may be necessary to buyout an individuals awards from a previous employer.
The Company may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interest of the Company.
In doing so, the Committee would ensure that any such payments have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forgone, and reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares and or options, time horizons and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using existing share plans.
Wherever possible, any new arrangements will be tied into the achievement of Group targets in either both the annual performance bonus and long-term incentives.
As shares under the normal long-term incentive scheme will not be released for up to three years, some cash-based interim long-term arrangement may be provided, but the level will not be more than would otherwise have been paid.
This may be used as part of the buyout of existing arrangements.
For internal appointments, any variable pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
84 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In accordance with the policy approved at the 2014 AGM, the Committee also reserves discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to make additional ad hoc incentives in order to respond to the potential loss of executive talent.
Such discretion would be used only in genuinely exceptional circumstances, and any such awards would comprise an additional award under the PSP.
See the assurance dated 17 April 2014 published on the AGM section of the Companys website in this regard.
Further, the Committee would ensure that the aggregate value of all PSP awards made during any one year, including any additional award made in reliance on this discretion, would not exceed 150% of salary, in line with the disclosed maximum in the policy table.
Directors service agreements and letters of appointment The Company has historically appointed executive directors on 12 month rolling contracts.
Accordingly, Gerard Ryan and David Broadbent have service contracts terminable on this basis.
In 2014, the Company changed its policy in relation to service agreements for newly appointed executive directors so that they are terminable upon six months notice.
Adrian Gardner was the first to be appointed on this basis.
All non-executive directors are appointed for three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended.
The Company can terminate the appointment on three months notice.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors retire from office if they have not retired at either of the preceding two AGMs.
In any event, at the 2015 AGM, all directors will be standing for re-election in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Service agreements are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Service agreements and letters of appointment are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed.
Pension arrangements for all of the executive directors have also been amended, as described in the policy table, without reissuing their service agreements.
Summary details of dates of directors service agreements and letters of appointment are included below.
Executive director Date of service agreement Gerard Ryan January 2012 Adrian Gardner January 2014 David Broadbent July 2007 1 Non-executive director Date of current letter of appointment Christopher Rodrigues January 2010 Richard Moat June 2012 Tony Hales May 2013 Nicholas Page May 2013 Cathryn Riley February 2014 Dan OConnor January 2015 1 Edyta Kurek resigned from the Board on 16 January 2015 Loss of office payments The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined having regard to the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Under normal circumstances, good leavers who do not serve notice are eligible to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and contractual benefits.
The Company normally expects executive directors to mitigate their loss upon departure.
In any specific case that may arise, the Committee will consider carefully any compensatory payments having regard to performance, age, service, health or other circumstances that may be relevant.
In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, injury, disability, change of control of the Company, or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits, any outstanding DSP matching shares and PSP awards will normally vest at the end of the performance period and be pro-rated for time.
However, the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest on cessation of employment on a pro-rata basis if, in the Committees view, the performance conditions are met at that point on a pro-rata basis.
The Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
For example, it can be in the interest of the Company for the Board to proactively organise succession and Corporate Governance 85 manage an executive directors departure.
When determining the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the Committee will take into account the executive directors level of performance and contribution to the transition.
For all other leavers, outstanding PSP awards and DSP matching shares will lapse.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions as permitted by the relevant plan rules on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees of the Group are entitled to base salary and benefits appropriate to the market in which they are employed.
The maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
LTIP awards are only available to senior management and directors.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the general increases in base salaries taking place within the Group.
While the Company does not consult directly with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay, the Committee does receive and take account of employee engagement results as part of their overall assessment of executive director performance.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
The Committee considers these to be of great importance.
The Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder views when determining ongoing remuneration strategy and commits to undergoing shareholder consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Single figure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014.
Further information about how the level of 2014 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
2 T he 2014 LTIP value is based on the PSP award that vested in July 2014.
Further information about the level of vesting is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
3 T his is a corrected amount compared to the 394,000 stated in the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, which was the market price, less option costs, of the PSP and CSOP awards that vested and became exercisable in 2013.
The corrected amount shows the market price of the total number of awards at vesting.
4 Cathr yn Riley was appointed to the Board on 12 February 2014.
In addition to her base fee, she is paid a fee of 10,000 per annum for chairing the Transformation for Growth Committee.
86 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration table Base salary As reported last year, the Chief Executive Officers base salary was increased by 7.9% to 500,000 from 1 April 2014.
The scale of this increase was determined on the basis of the Chief Executive Officers development and strong performance in his role since appointment in April 2012.
During the salary review exercise, the Remuneration Committee noted that the salary was still below market median for a FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer.
Further information is given in the Shareholder context section on page 94.
The Chief Commercial Officers base salary was increased by 3% to 328,879, which was in line with the increase to UK employees.
The Chief Financial Officers base salary was not increased from his starting salary of 319,000.
As reported on page 91, the base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Commercial Officer will increase by 1% with effect from 1 April 2015, whilst the Chief Financial Officers base salary will remain unchanged.
Benefits The benefits provided to the executive directors included: private healthcare, life assurance, annual medical, long-term disability cover and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
None of the executive directors received total taxable benefits exceeding 8% of salary in 2014, and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level materially over the remaining term of the remuneration policy.
Determination of 2014 annual bonus The maximum award for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer in 2014 was 100% of salary 80% of salary for on target performance and 20% of salary for threshold performance.
During 2014, a balanced scorecard approach was used for the annual bonus whereby 50% of the bonus was calculated on pre-tax profit and, subject always to a minimum profit threshold, the remaining 50% calculated against stretching personal performance objectives.
The award for achievement of personal performance objectives is conditional upon achievement of the pre-tax profit element i. e. the maximum achievable on the personal performance objectives cannot exceed the amount achieved under the pre-tax profit element.
Pre-tax profit objectives Pre-tax profit targets were set taking into account the Companys operating budget, external forecasts for the sector and analysts profit forecasts.
Targets were designed to be stretching in order to drive desired behaviours and increase motivation and focus.
The pre-tax profit targets were: threshold 114.2 million: on target 122.9 million: and maximum 127.5 million.
Personal objectives Each director had individual objectives for 2014, together accounting for a maximum of 50% of the total bonus.
These objectives reflected key areas of focus for the business and those relevant to each directors business area to ensure the strategic success of the Company.
The table below includes examples of some of these personal objectives.
Director Examples of personal objectives 2014 Gerard Ryan Launch of a digital lending business: reduction in funding costs through refinancing of the Eurobond: roll-out of new products, including prepaid cards and insurance: successful management of regulatory challenges.
Adrian Gardner Support in connection with new market entry and acquisition: support and delivery of T4G releases and monitoring of financial outcomes: customer profitability analysis: ensuring the Company has access to sufficient funding to enable it to execute its strategy.
David Broadbent Entry into at least one new market: successful completion of at least one acquisition: development of a remote digital lending channel: development and management of the Companys change programme.
Over the period, profit before tax and exceptional items was 123.5 million, which gave rise to payment under the profit before tax measure of between target and maximum.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer against their agreed personal objectives for 2014.
Corporate Governance 87 After consideration, the Committee awarded bonuses to the executive directors in the amounts shown below for the year ended 31 December 2014: Cash and DSP Financial Individual shares award objectives objectives Total value of as a achievement achievement DSP face value 2014 annual percentage of as a percentage as a percentage Cash bonus of shares due to bonus maximum bonus of base salary of base salary 000 vest in 2018 000 available Gerard Ryan 41.2% 33% 121 243 364 74.2% Adrian Gardner 41.2% 11% 56 111 167 52.2% David Broadbent 41.2% 33% 81 161 242 74.2% The Committee did not apply any discretion in relation to the bonus awards.
The bonus was payable one-third in cash, and two-thirds in deferred shares which will vest at the end of a three-year period, subject to the executive director not being dismissed for misconduct.
There are also provisions for clawback, with respect to both the cash and deferred elements of the bonus, to be applied for up to three years following release in the event of a restatement of the Companys Financial Statements or material misjudgement of performance.
Pension The Company has two pension schemes, the International Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme the Pension Scheme and the International Personal Finance Stakeholder Pension Scheme the Stakeholder Scheme.
New employees are eligible to join the Stakeholder Scheme.
The rate of Company pension contribution for any executive director is 20% of base salary.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, this may be paid as a cash allowance.
The Companys contributions in respect of Gerard Ryan during 2014 amounted to 89,080, of which 23,175 was paid into personal pension arrangements and 65,905 was paid as a cash allowance.
The Companys contributions in respect of Adrian Gardner during 2014 amounted to 56,063, all of which was paid as a cash allowance.
David Broadbent was a member of the final salary section of the Pension Scheme until 1 April 2006 when he began to accrue benefits as a member of the cash balance section.
He ceased to be a member of the cash balance section on 31 July 2008 and became a deferred member of the Pension Scheme.
The Companys contributions in respect of David Broadbent during 2014 amounted to 62,533, of which 42,500 was paid into pension arrangements and 20,033 was paid as a cash allowance.
Details of David Broadbents entitlements under both sections of the Pension Scheme are as follows: Final salary Accrued pension at 31 December 2014 14,807 Accrued pension at 31 December 2013 14,418 Increase in accrued pension during the year net of inflation Directors contributions in 2014 Cash balance Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2014 105,561 Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2013 102,786 Increase in cash balance lump sum during the year net of inflation Directors contributions in 2014 David Broadbent was age 46 at the end of the year.
He became a deferred member of the pension scheme on 1 August 2008.
Notes: 1 The cash balance entitlement has been calculated in line with our current understanding of David Broadbents accrued benefits.
2 T he change in accrued pension and accrued cash balance lump sum, net of inflation, during the year reflects that the relevant inflation benefit revaluation for the year uses CPI over the year to September 2013, which was 2.7%.
3 Normal r etirement age is 65 for David Broadbent.
Early retirement can be taken from age 55 and the accrued final salary pension will then be reduced to take account of its early payment.
4 As Da vid Broadbent did not accrue any benefits within the Scheme during the year to 31 December 2014, the value of his Scheme benefits under the disclosure requirements for large and medium-sized quoted companies is zero.
88 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share options Awards vesting during 2014 The LTIP amount included in the 2014 single total figure of remuneration relates to the PSP nil-cost option award granted in 2011.
Vesting was dependent on absolute TSR performance over three years from the date of grant ending on 28 July 2014.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below.
Performance condition Threshold Maximum Achieved Absolute TSR growth 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 75% TSR 33% vests 100% vests 100% vested Based upon absolute TSR of 75%, 100% of the award vested when tested on 29 July 2014.
The Committee was satisfied that the TSR growth was a fair reflection of performance.
50% of the vested award was released after the end of the performance period, with 50% deferred for an additional 12 months.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Policy, executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Companys equity incentive schemes net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the requirement is met.
Executive directors current holdings against the guideline are disclosed on page 92.
Awards granted during 2014 Awards were made in the financial year ending 31 December 2014 under the LTIP PSP CSOP, DSP and the SAYE Scheme.
Detail of these awards is provided below.
LTIP In line with policy, executive directors were granted LTIP awards, structured as PSP and CSOP options, in March 2014.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and associated performance conditions are set out below: Number of PSP Number End of 3 nil-cost of CSOP Face value Percentage of performance Threshold Weighting Performance 1 2 4 options options base salary period vesting of award conditions 25% 1 3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1 3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue Gerard Ryan 110,252 579,374 125% 2016 25% 1 3 less impairment 25% 1 3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1 3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue Adrian Gardner 74,111 5,708 398,747 125% 2016 25% 1 3 less impairment 25% 1 3 Absolute TSR Cumulative EPS 25% 1 3 growth 31 December Growth in revenue David Broadbent 75,067 2,854 399,124 125% 2016 25% 1 3 less impairment 1 The awards are nil-cost options to acquire shares for nil consideration.
2 The awards are options to acquire shares for their market value at the date of grant, being 526p per share.
3 V alued using the share price at the date of grant 4 March 2014 being 526p per share.
For information, for the CSOP options, the fair value was calculated to be 9,294 for 30,000 of options and 4,647 for 15,000 of options being 31.0% of the grant date face value at the date of grant using the Black Scholes model.
Corporate Governance 89 Performance conditions For awards granted during 2014, the awards will vest as follows, with straight-line vesting between the points: Growth in Cumulative revenue less Absolute TSR EPS growth impairment Weighting 1 3 1 3 1 3 Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% Threshold 30% over 3 years 6% p. a.
Stretch 100% vesting 60% over 3 years 15% p. a.
12% p. a. DSP In 2014, two-thirds of the annual bonus earned in respect of 2013 i. e. 67% of salary was deferred in shares and attracted performance-based matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
There are no further performance conditions attached to the vesting of the deferred shares.
The matching awards will vest only to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied, being the same three measures as set out in the LTIP section above.
The following table sets out details of awards of nil-cost options made during the year under the DSP: Amount vesting Threshold Maximum Face value performance performance End of performance Date of award % of face value % of face value period Gerard Ryan 14 March 2014 Deferred: 306,750 Matching: 306,750 25% 100% 31 December 2016 David Broadbent 14 March 2014 Deferred: 211,317 Matching: 211,317 25% 100% 31 December 2016 The face value was calculated using the share price the day before the day of grant of 528p.
SAYE As noted in the remuneration policy, UK-based executive directors are entitled to participate in the Companys approved all-employee plan.
During the course of the year, both Adrian Gardner and David Broadbent were granted options.
Loss of office payments audited information No payments for loss of office were made to any directors during 2014.
Payments to past directors audited information No payments to any past directors were made during 2014.
Recruitment of new executive director Adrian Gardner joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 2 January 2014.
He joined on a salary of 319,000 p. a. a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary, eligibility for a PSP award of 125% of base salary and a defined contribution pension of 20% of salary which he elected to receive as a cash allowance.
The remuneration is fully in line with the stated remuneration policy.
Recruitment of new non-executive director Cathryn Riley joined the Board as a non-executive director on 12 February 2014.
In addition, the Committee approved payment of an additional fee of 10,000 p. a. in recognition of her chairmanship of the Transformation for Growth Committee with effect from 1 May 2014.
The fee will continue to be paid until such time as Cathryns chairmanship of the committee ends and or the committee is disbanded.
90 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has selected the UK senior management population plus the country boards around 98 people for this comparison, due to the structure of the remuneration package.
Chief Executive All employees To 31 December 2014 Percentage change Percentage change 000 2014 vs 2013 2014 vs 2013 Salary 491 6.7% 3.8% Benefits 25 0.04% 0.3% Bonus 364 20.9% 19.1% Performance graph and table The graph below compares the TSR of the Company with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for the six-year period ended 31 December 2014.
This index was chosen for comparison because the Company is a member of this index and has been for almost all of the time since its shares were listed on 16 July 2007.
Total Shareholder Return vs FTSE 250 500 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 14 International Personal Finance FTSE 250 The table below shows the corresponding Chief Executive Officer remuneration, as well as the annual variable element award rates and long-term vesting rates against maxima over the same period.
Annual bonus CEO single figure payout LTIP vesting of remuneration as % maximum as % of maximum 000 opportunity opportunity 2014 Gerard Ryan 969 74.2% 2013 Gerard Ryan 1,037 100% 2012 Gerard Ryan 889 80% John Harnett 718 2011 John Harnett 943 67% 2010 John Harnett 952 80% 2009 John Harnett 603 Notes: Gerard Ryan was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2012.
John Harnett resigned on 31 March 2012.
Corporate Governance 91 Relative spend on pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks: Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 167.5 164.7 1.7% Dividend paid in the year 27.9 21.9 27.4% Share buyback 45.4 60.0 24.3% 1 The percentage increase at constant exchange rates is 6.5%.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR Effective from 1 April 2015, the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be 505,000 and the Chief Commercial Officer 332,168.
The increases of 1% applied to the base salaries are in line with the anticipated award to UK employees.
The base salary for the Chief Financial Officer will remain unchanged at 319,000, reflecting the fact that he is still relatively new and developing in his role.
Pension and benefits are in line with benefits stated in the policy table.
There was no change in the maximum opportunity under our annual bonus plan.
The performance measures remain 50% profit before tax and 50% on personal objectives, unchanged from 2014.
Targets are not disclosed on a forwardlooking basis because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive, in particular resulting from the fact that the majority of the Companys competitors are unlisted.
It is expected that the LTIP awards granted to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Commercial Officer during 2012 will vest in 2015.
There was no change in the normal and maximum PSP opportunity for executive directors and awards of up to 125% of base salary are expected to be made in 2015.
DSP matching awards in respect of the deferred element of the annual bonus are also expected to be made.
As in 2014, performance will be assessed against three equally weighted, independently measured metrics: one-third absolute TSR: one-third EPS growth: and one-third growth in revenue less impairment.
Targets have been reviewed and will remain the same for awards made in 2015: Growth in Cumulative revenue less Absolute TSR EPS growth impairment Weighting 1 3 1 3 1 3 Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% Threshold 30% over 3 years 6% p. a.
12% p. a. Dan OConnor joined the Board as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect on 2 January 2015.
Dans initial fee level is 55,000 p. a. in line with the standard fee payable to non-executive directors.
His fee will increase to 200,000 p. a. the current Chairmans fee, following Christopher Rodriguess retirement and Dans appointment as Chairman at the 2015 AGM.
Other directorships The Company will normally permit an executive director to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fee from that appointment, subject to the prior approval of the Board.
Adrian Gardner was a non-executive director of Amdocs Limited during the 2014 financial year and was permitted to retain the fee received from this position.
92 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The interests of each person who was a director of the Company as at 31 December 2014 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Shares held Options held Vested but Unvested Unvested not yet and subject and Unvested and exercisable Vested and Current to subject to subject to and subject exercisable, Shareholding shareholding Owned performance deferral continued to continued but not yet required % salary Requirement 1 1 outright conditions only employment employment exercised % salary fee met Executive Directors Gerard Ryan 300,000 614,929 112,771 7,777 200 275 Yes Adrian 2 Gardner 15,000 79,819 6,902 200 21 Yes David Broadbent 145,758 381,087 134,954 6,902 48,317 200 267 Yes NonExecutive Directors Christopher Rodrigues 218,562 100 491 Yes Tony Hales 50,000 100 300 Yes Edyta 3 Kurek 3,879 100 32 No Richard Moat 15,000 100 123 Yes Nicholas Page 50,674 100 325 Yes Cathryn Riley 14,795 100 121 Yes 1 Based on a share price of 449.6 pence being the closing price on 31 December 2014.
2 Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time with 50% of all share awards vesting to be retained until the requirement is met.
3 Edyta Kurek resigned from the Board on 16 January 2015 In addition, the following director had interests in Euro Medium Term Notes as follows: Euro Notes as Euro Notes as at 31 at 31 December December Director 2014 2013 Nicholas Page - 400,000 There were no changes to these interests between 31 December 2014 and 25 February 2015.
The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the PSP, CSOP and DSP in the year totalled 808,472.
Shareholder context At the 2014 AGM, The 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration received a 63.4% vote in favour, including votes cast at the proxys discretion.
Feedback from shareholders suggested the dissent reflected two factors: the Chief Executive Officers 7.9% salary increase for 2014 and his exceptional PSP award of 150% of salary in 2013.
In light of this result, the Company wrote to its top ten shareholders following the AGM to provide some additional context around the remuneration decisions made by the Committee during 2013, and offered an opportunity to discuss further.
The Company reiterated its commitment to consulting with major shareholders ahead of any future awards of an exceptional nature under the LTIP.
The Company received strong support from its shareholders at the 2014 AGM for its first Directors Remuneration Policy under the new reporting regulations, with a 97.1% vote in favour.
The table below summarises voting outcomes at the 2014 AGM % of total votes cast.
For Against Withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 97.1% 2.9% 0.2% Annual Report on Remuneration 63.4% 36.6% 3.2% Corporate Governance 95 Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the directors remuneration for the year were being discussed and are considered to be independent: Tony Hales Chairman Richard Moat Nicholas Page Cathryn Riley from 20 February 2014 The Committee received assistance from Helen Thornton Group Director of Human Resources, Tim Pearson former Group Head of Reward and Ben Murphy Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The main activities of the Committee during the year were: assessed performance of executive directors and determined annual bonuses for 2014: established the executive directors bonus arrangements for 2015: set bonus targets for the executive directors for 2015: reviewed remuneration benchmarking and set base salaries for executive directors: approved share awards for 2014: approved the director fee for Cathryn Riley and for the incoming Chairman-elect, Dan OConnor: engaged with shareholders following the significant vote against the 2013 annual Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM: and considered remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments.
Advisor to the Committee Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Committee as its independent remuneration advisor in 2007, and its appointment was confirmed following a competitive selection process in 2010.
During the year, Kepler provided independent advice on remuneration matters including incentive design, current market practice, target setting and monitoring of total shareholder return.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of advice to the Committee in 2014 based on time and materials totalled 21,670 excl.
Kepler also provided advice to management in connection with TSR performance updates and CSOP valuations.
The fees paid in this respect during 2014 were 2,900 excl VAT.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent and that Kepler does not have any connections with the Company that may impair its independence.
Approved by the Board on 25 February 2015.
Ben Murphy Company Secretary 25 February 2015
