Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman Strong performance against key metrics has underpinned our bonus decisions again this year.
Against a challenging backdrop, we have added 23% more products and 33% more customers, excluding the acquired O2 consumer and product base.
Our investment to accelerate take up and usage of new connected TV services is delivering well, with three million Sky HD boxes connected over the year.
As a consequence, adjusted revenue excluding ESPN is up 7% to 7.6 billion and adjusted basic earnings per share is flat at 60.0 pence, despite the investment in connected TV services and one-off step up in Premier League costs.
The Committee therefore awarded the CEO and CFO a maximum bonus at 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
Notwithstanding the Dear Shareholder, outstanding performance of both Executive Directors, the Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report on made modest base salary increases of 2.5% to the CEO and 2.96% Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2014 which to the CFO which recognises their contribution without compromising shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
The report the philosophy of retaining a relatively low level of fixed pay versus takes account of the new regulations, how we have implemented our comparator group.
our policy over the past 12 months and our proposed approach The ratio of fixed pay to variable pay is 12%:88% for the CEO and to executive remuneration for the next three years.
Having been 13%:87% for the CFO, compared to the average of 23%:77% for our appointed to the role of Committee Chair in November, I was keen comparator group.
to gauge the views of our larger institutional shareholders on Skys approach to executive remuneration.
Therefore, over the summer The continued support of our shareholders is vital.
In response I wrote to our major shareholders outlining the changes we to feedback we have received over the last 12 months and in the were proposing to make to our remuneration policy and met context of the new reporting regulations, we have made a number with the institutional voting bodies.
This process of engagement of changes to our remuneration policy.
These changes seek was very constructive.
to further protect and align shareholder interests and are set out in our remuneration policy on pages 60 to 66 and include: Our approach to remuneration has served Sky and its shareholders extremely well for many years.
Our sustained focus on paying for The introduction of a cap on annual awards under the Long Term performance with a high ratio of variable pay to fixed pay and the Incentive Plan consistency in which we have applied our policy, has delivered A minimum shareholding requirement for the Executive Directors outstanding business results.
Our remuneration philosophy continues to motivate and retain our Executive Directors providing stability to A formal policy on malus the Company in an increasingly competitive and changing landscape.
More explanation and disclosure on performance outcomes It also aligns the interests of the Executive Directors closely to those of our shareholders.
More information on our recruitment policy Executive pay at Sky remains firmly tied to the achievement of We will continue to refine and develop the structure of our report stretching performance goals which are linked to business strategy.
to provide clarity on our remuneration approach and welcome The measures we use are based on specific areas that drive growth further feedback from our shareholders on its content.
We believe that the concept of a Tracy Clarke threshold, target and maximum formula to underpin annual bonus Remuneration Committee Chair decisions would compromise our drive for growth so we set one clear and ambitious stretch target for each bonus measure every year.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are determined annually.
The normal award for both Executive Directors has remained the same for a number of years.
This year the Committee decided to increase the level of award granted to the CFO in recognition of his broader role and increasing contribution.
Awards vest every other year which is atypical, and this year there was no vesting of share awards relating to the current performance period.
This means that if the business performs well next year total remuneration will spike when share awards are due to vest.
It will then go down again the following year when there is no vesting.
The Committee reviews the design and effect of this plan regularly and continues to support the current approach as it provides consistency and a good balance between long and short-term thinking.
Grants are made as a fixed number of shares rather than as a multiple of salary.
For further information on remuneration go to: This fide-links the award from automatically increasing with salary and is key in driving growth and achieving strong alignment with returns to shareholders.
Our Remuneration Policy Page 60 Annual Remuneration Implementation Report Page 67 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 59 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy This section describes the Directors Remuneration Policy which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee intends that this policy will take effect from that date and will be effective until the 2017 AGM.
Remuneration Principles There are five key principles which underpin the remuneration policy for our Executive Directors: Our approach to executive pay is aligned to the interests of our shareholders.
We reward our people fairly and competitively to attract, motivate and retain the skills we need to deliver significant growth.
The level of base pay is decided in the same way as for all employees, based on individual performance and experience, the size and scope of the role and taking account of total remuneration.
The majority of executive pay is tied to the achievement of stretching performance goals linked to the strategic priorities for the business.
Executive Directors will be well rewarded only if they meet or exceed the maximum performance standards set and achieve stretching levels of performance.
We take care to ensure that remuneration does not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Our principles set the foundation for our remuneration policy and ensure that decisions made by the Committee are consistent and appropriate in the context of business priorities, shareholder interests and employee pay.
Summary of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The table below shows how our remuneration policy links to our business strategy and its terms of operation.
Any contractual commitments entered into or awards made before the policy comes into effect or a person became a director will be honoured.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Base salary Attracts and retains Reviewed annually, typically Any increase will be in line with Individual and business Executive Directors with effect from 1 July.
those provided to employees performance is taken taking account of within the Company.
into account when Salary is set relatively low versus personal contribution reviewing salaries.
the peer group of companies Higher increases may be made and size of role.
of similar market capitalisation as a result of a change in role to the Company.
or responsibility or other performance-based The Committee looks at circumstance.
pay practices in selected international media companies.
This is in line with our policy for all employees.
Decisions on salary also take into account the performance and experience of the individual, changes in the size and scope of the role, and the level of salary awards across the business.
Pension Provides opportunity for Executive Directors may receive Employer contributions to the N A longer-term saving and or employer contributions into the pension scheme or an equivalent retirement provision.
BSkyB Pension Scheme, a cash cash supplement are around 16% supplement in lieu of pension, of base salary.
All payments are made as a percentage of base salary.
60 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Other Provides Executive Executive Directors are entitled Benefits provided to Executive N A benefits Directors with a range of to a range of benefits including, Directors are broadly in line with core and fringe benefits as but not limited to, private medical those offered to all employees.
part of a competitive total insurance, life assurance, ill health Where exceptions are made, remuneration package.
income protection, paid holiday, the Committee ensures that sick pay, Sky subscription package, benefits offered are in line company car allowance and use with market practice for similar of a company car generally for roles in similar organisations.
The Committee may make minor changes to benefits, or include other benefits that are deemed appropriate from time to time.
Relocation allowances and benefits may be provided where needed to assist with the relocation or international transfer of an Executive Director and their dependents.
Annual Drives and rewards the Performance measures and The maximum bonus Performance is assessed bonus delivery of stretching weightings are reviewed at opportunity is 200% of against a combination of annual performance goals the start of each year to take base salary, and is payable operational and financial aligned with the account of current business for the achievement of objectives which are Companys overall plans.
determined at the start business strategy.
The minimum payment is zero.
Performance against targets The weighting of the The Committee believes the is monitored quarterly and measures is determined concept of threshold, target and at the start of each year determined annually based maximum compromises our drive but each measure will have on assessment of performance for growth so we set one clear a maximum weighting of 40%.
and ambitious stretch target Further details are Payment is made only once annual for each performance measure disclosed in the notes results have been audited.
The achievement to the policy table and of stretch goals will result in In exceptional circumstances the the Annual Remuneration a payout at maximum or Committee will use its judgement Implementation Report near-maximum.
The Committee to adjust bonus outcomes up on page 68. exercises its judgement on or down to ensure alignment the level of bonus payable for of pay with performance and outcomes short of maximum.
with shareholder interests, within the policy maximum.
CoEncourages personal Executive Directors may invest The maximum annual award The performance measure to Investment investment and up to half of their earned annual is 150% of base salary.
determine the vesting of the Plan CIP shareholder alignment: bonus in the Companys shares.
shares is chosen each year No matching awards are capable and is typically a financial rewards long-term focus These investment shares are of vesting if performance is measure such as EPS growth.
and performance matched on a gross basis and below threshold: a 1 for 1 match achievement.
Further details on the vest based on performance over may vest when the minimum performance criteria for a three-year period.
Shares are of the range is met and all the threshold and maximum matched by up to 1.5 shares for shares vest or 1.5 shares for vesting are disclosed in every 1 share invested in line every share invested when the the Annual Remuneration with performance.
maximum of the range is met.
Implementation Report Once vested, participants on pages 68 to 70. may exercise the awards during a five-year period.
Participation in the plan is voluntary.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 61 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Performance measures are Long Term Rewards longer-term Awards are made annually, under The Committee reviews the typically a mix of operational Incentive value creation and aligns the terms of the scheme rules, number of shares to be granted measures and relative TSR.
Plan LTIP Executive Directors based on number of shares.
A typical award for the interests with those This fide-links the award from CEO is 600,000 shares in any Operational measures used of shareholders.
in the past have included EPS, with salary adjustments.
operating cash flow and This year, the Company has introduced a maximum award revenue growth.
Vesting of awards is based on level of 900,000 shares in any stretching performance over a The weighting of the measures 12-month period.
Awards are may vary but is typically 70% will only be made in exceptional made in Year 1 and in Year 2 with operational measures and circumstances.
vesting of both awards at the 30% relative TSR.
This means that 100% of the shares vest when vesting of awards occurs every the performance criteria are other year, with zero vesting met in full.
If the minimum of in between.
the range is met each year for all measures, 26% of the Once vested, participants may shares vest.
exercise the awards during a five-year period.
In instances of gross misconduct all unvested LTIP awards lapse immediately.
This year the Company has introduced a policy on malus.
The Committee may use its discretion after having taken independent advice to withhold or vary downwards any unvested awards typically in the event of: the material restatement of the Companys audited results: or actions attributable to participants resulting in material reputational damage to the business The Committee will determine how to apply this sanction on a case-by-case basis.
Around 650 employees are eligible for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
A smaller number of employees around 130 are also invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
All employees are eligible to receive a comprehensive benefits package and the majority are eligible to receive either a monthly or quarterly cash incentive or an annual bonus.
62 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Shareholder alignment Our LTIP vesting cycle is atypical and has served the business and shareholders well since it was introduced in 2005.
Vesting occurs The Committee considers shareholders views as they are received only every other year and as a consequence the amount of during the year, at the AGM, through shareholder meetings and remuneration delivered to Executive Directors will spike every through correspondence.
This year we wrote to our major shareholders other year.
This approach encourages focus on the longer term.
outlining our approach to executive remuneration and the changes The performance ranges for each measure are reviewed annually in the we propose to make.
light of the Companys three year plan, brokers forecasts and historical We will continue to engage with our major shareholders and welcome performance.
Performance at the top end of the range is stretching.
Should we propose to make any major changes to the remuneration structure we will seek the views of our major Pay scenario analysis shareholders in advance.
The charts below provide an estimate of the awards that could be received by our Executive Directors under the remuneration policy The context for setting executive remuneration policy for 2014 showing: The principles underlying our executive remuneration policy are Minimum: base salary as at 1 July 2014, plus pension and benefits aligned to those that underpin reward for our employees as a whole as per the table on page 71 fixed pay which aim to attract, motivate and retain people by offering a market-competitive total remuneration package.
The Committee Maximum: fixed pay plus maximum awards for annual bonus takes into consideration the pay and conditions of all employees 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO, when determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Co-Investment Plan maximum deferral of 50% of the annual It does not consult with employees in this process.
bonus into investment shares and full vesting of 1.5x matching shares and Long Term Incentive Plan 600,000 shares for the Our performance measures and how they operate CEO and 350,000 shares for the CFO Executive pay remains firmly tied to the achievement of stretching The Committee sets one clear and ambitious stretch target for performance goals linked to business strategy.
The measures we each performance measure.
If stretch targets are met then 100% use are based on specific areas that drive growth and returns to of maximum for the bonus is paid and the shares awarded under shareholders.
We believe the concept of a threshold, target and the LTIP and CIP will vest in full.
There is no additional payment for maximum formula would compromise our drive for growth so we achievement over the stretch goals.
set one clear and ambitious stretch target for each performance Awards under the LTIP are made annually but vesting occurs only every measure every year.
The impact of this vesting cycle on actual realised pay is shown in the five year single figure remuneration table for the CEO on page 72.
Annual bonus The performance measures for the annual bonus are determined by Jeremy Darroch, CEO the committee based on the business priorities for the year.
They are typically a mix of operational and financial performance measures.
Long Term Incentive Plan The measures are usually a combination of operating profit, operating Co-Investment Plan cash flow, and a measure of product growth.
They are all key indicators Annual Bonus Fixed Pay of the underlying performance of the business.
Each year stretch Minimum 100% 1.1m objectives are set in the light of the Companys annual business plan and the operating environment.
Maximum 12% 20% 15% 53% 9.9m Co-Investment Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 Performance measures for the LTIP and CIP are reviewed annually m to ensure alignment with the Companys strategy and shareholders interests.
The CIP measure is typically compound EPS growth in excess of RPI over the performance period, which ensures close alignment Andrew Griffith, CFO with our shareholders interests.
Performance required for threshold and maximum vesting are described in the Annual Remuneration Long Term Incentive Plan Implementation Report on page 68.
Co-Investment Plan Annual Bonus The LTIP measures are typically a mix of operational measures and Fixed Pay Minimum 100% 0.7m relative TSR performance, with a 70 30 split.
The operational measures are usually EPS growth, operating cash flow and revenue growth.
As the conversion of profit to cash flow is a key indicator of the Maximum 13% 17% 13% 57% 5.4m underlying performance of the business it is used as a measure 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 in both the annual bonus and the LTIP.
m Scenarios are modelled assuming a share price of 8.818 which is the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 with no allowance for share price appreciation.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 63 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy continued Other share schemes Any use of discretion within the policy framework will be explained in the Annual Remuneration Implementation Report.
There may Management Long-Term Incentive Plan MLTIP be exceptional circumstances under which the Committee may The Company also operates a MLTIP for selected employees excluding use discretion or judgement in the interests of the business and the Executive Directors and senior executives who participate in the shareholders.
These exceptional circumstances may be the subject LTIP.
Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the CEO, of discussion with the Companys major shareholders.
within the parameters agreed by the Committee.
The MLTIP mirrors the LTIP in design in order to ensure alignment between participants Remuneration on recruitment or appointment to the Board in either plan.
It is expected that the remuneration package for a new Executive Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes Director will be agreed in line with the approved remuneration policy The Company has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive Share at the time of appointment.
The Committee would seek approval from Option Schemes.
No options have been granted since 2004 and we its major shareholders if it felt it necessary to pay more to attract the do not envisage making any future awards as part of these schemes.
The last time an executive appointment was made, Sharesave Scheme the Committee approved a total remuneration package lower than The Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and Irish employees and the previous incumbent.
encourages them to make a long-term investment in the Companys Typically base salary on appointment will take into account individual shares in a tax efficient way.
The current legislation provides for experience, the size and scope of the role, total remuneration and employees to save up to 500 per month.
Currently the limit for Sky relevant market pay levels.
Where the initial base salary is set below employees is 250 per month although the Company may decide to competitive levels, for example to account for someone who may be adjust this amount in future.
Options are normally exercisable after newly promoted to the Board, the Committee will realign salary in the either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which years following appointment, assuming the required level of personal options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price performance is met.
The Committee will disclose its intention to do on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation this at the time of appointment.
or the average of the three days preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Company to invite employees to participate Other elements of remuneration will be set in line with our policy in the scheme following the announcement of the year end unless specific circumstances dictate otherwise.
Currently, approximately 9,000 employees participate it may be necessary to use different performance measures initially in these schemes.
for the annual bonus taking into account the time of joining in the financial year and responsibilities of the individual.
Shareholding guidelines and share ownership The Committee may offer one-off cash and or share-based elements The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive in addition to the standard remuneration package.
These will only be Directors and shareholders interests through executives building up offered where it considers these to be imperative to attracting the a significant shareholding in the Company.
This year, new shareholding best external candidate in order to compensate for elements of pay requirements have been introduced at 3x base salary for the CEO and such as forfeited bonus entitlements and or unvested long term 2x base salary for the CFO.
Executive Directors are required to build up incentive awards from an existing employer.
Any buy-out of unvested their shareholding to the required levels within five years.
There are no share awards would aim to match as far as possible the vesting terms shareholding guidelines for Independent Non-Executive Directors but and the expected value of the awards being bought out.
This provision they are able to participate in a monthly share purchase plan.
See page may also include payment for any benefits in kind, pensions and other 73 for further details on Directors interests.
allowances previously provided to the individual.
The Committee may also provide appropriate levels of relocation How the Remuneration Committee exercises discretion assistance and payments to external or internal appointees who are The Committee retains discretion relating to annual bonus, LTIP and required to relocate either within, or to, the UK on taking up the role.
CIP in line with their rules and according to the remuneration policy.
Where an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, any These include but are not limited to: outstanding variable pay award or benefits provided in relation to the previous role may be paid or delivered according to the rules Timing of a grant of an award payment of the plan and may be adjusted to take into account the new role.
Size of an award bonus payment up to the maximums indicated The Committee may also make an LTIP award on appointment outside in the policy table the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved plans.
The value of such an award will not exceed our normal policy maximum.
Determination of vesting and the application of malus for the LTIP The remuneration arrangements for any newly-appointed Executive Dealing with a change of control Director will be disclosed in line with our regulatory obligations.
Determination of treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the leaver policy Annual review of performance measures and weighting and targets of the plan from year to year 64 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Key terms of new and existing service contracts Payments on termination and loss of office The Committees policy for the Executive Directors service contracts The Companys termination policy is shaped by the key principles that: is provided below.
contractual terms will be adhered to: and Notice period Up to one years notice for either party and a one year the circumstances of the termination will be taken into account.
The Company may require the Executive Directors service contracts continue until the agreed individual to continue to fulfil current duties or may retirement date or other date as the Company may agree and are assign garden leave.
terminable on no more than one years notice.
Payment in One years salary plus an amount equal to the benefits lieu of notice and a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the The Company may terminate an Executive Directors service contract termination date.
No bonus is payable for the duration by way of payment in lieu of notice, by continuing employment for the of the notice period unless that period is worked.
duration of the notice period, and or by assigning a period of garden leave.
The current Executive Directors service contracts also contain Jeremy Darrochs initial service contract on appointment as CFO a non-compete provision of one year from the date of termination commenced on 16 August 2004.
The contract was revised on of the agreement.
7 December 2007 when he became CEO.
Andrew Griffiths service contract was revised on 7 April 2008 when he was appointed CFO.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any business day and will be available at the place where the AGM is held from 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment in place for initial terms of three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
These letters provide that no compensation is payable on termination other than accrued fees and expenses.
The dates of these letters of appointment are detailed below: Date of Letter of Appointment Nick Ferguson 15 June 2004 Chase Carey 30 January 2013 Tracy Clarke 11 June 2012 David DeVoe 15 December 2004 Martin Gilbert 29 November 2011 Adine Grate 17 July 2013 Andy Higginson 1 September 2004 Dave Lewis 16 November 2012 James Murdoch 7 December 2007 Matthieu Pigasse 29 November 2011 Danny Rimer 7 April 2008 Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991 Andy Sukawaty 1 June 2013 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 65 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy continued Termination for cause and without cause: treatment of salary, bonus and benefits In the event of termination for cause, salary and benefits would be payable only up to the date of termination.
No bonus would be payable.
In the event of termination without cause the Executive Director would receive one years salary, an amount equal to the value of the benefits he would have been eligible to receive for one year, and a pro-rated bonus for the period from the start of the financial year up to the date of termination.
No bonus would be payable for the years notice period.
Treatment of share plans on termination Executive Directors entitlements to remuneration under the shareholder-approved share plans upon termination are summarised in the table below: Plan Reasons such as death, redundancy, retirement, ill health, injury and Other leaver reasons such as resignation disability, employing company ceasing to be part of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee LTIP LTIP awards will not normally be exercisable until the normal All unvested shares will usually lapse on the date of leaving.
vesting date, subject to the performance conditions being met.
However, the Committee has the discretion under the plan rules Award vesting will be prorated according to the portion of to determine whether a proportion of the shares may vest having the performance period served unless the Committee taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
Awards may be exercised early in certain circumstances for example, in the event of death or a takeover, or change in control.
CIP Any investment shares held on behalf of the participant may Investment shares may be sold.
Any matching award will be be sold.
Any matching awards held under the CIP will vest forfeited.
However, the Committee has the discretion to determine on the same terms as outlined above in relation to the LTIP.
whether a proportion of the matching award may vest having taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
Sharesave Options may become exercisable within 6 months, alternatively Options will lapse and the participant may only withdraw savings the participant may choose to withdraw savings.
accrued under the savings contract.
The share plan rules do not refer to for cause or without cause.
Termination for cause would normally be dealt with under Other leaver reasons.
Termination without cause would be dealt with as any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
It is the Companys policy to use its judgement when approving payments to departing Executive Directors within the provision of the plan rules.
The Committee will take into account factors such as the circumstances and timing of the exit, the performance of the Executive Director while in office and the interests of shareholders.
External appointments External appointments for Executive Directors are considered by the Companys Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be retained by the individual.
Jeremy Darroch became a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc in February 2014, and serves as a member of their audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
Andrew Griffith became a Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc in March 2014, and serves as senior independent director, chairman of the audit committee and as a member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
66 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report Remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below summarises the key components of remuneration for our Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Element and purpose Operation Fees Reflect individual responsibilities and Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed membership of Board Committees.
Attract annually having regard to independent advice and surveys.
Non-Executive Directors with the skills and The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee determines the experience required to oversee the fees paid to the Chairman, taking into account the complexity of the role implementation of strategy and the time and commitment required.
The Board of Directors determines the fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees for membership of or chairmanship of a committee, or for other responsibilities, are payable in addition to the basic fees.
Fee levels for 2014 are disclosed in the table on page 75.
Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive a portion of their fees in the Companys shares, which are purchased on a monthly basis.
Directors who are deemed to be affiliated with 21st Century Fox are not permitted to take part in this facility.
Non-Executive Directors interests are disclosed in the table on page 73.
Benefits Additional benefits may be provided for business purposes, e. g. provision of a car to travel to from meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join Skys pension plan.
Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a Sky subscription package.
Bonus and Share Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any bonus or share Plans scheme offered by the Company.
Notice and Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is for an initial three year term.
termination In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors submit provisions themselves for annual reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment: these appointments may be terminated without notice.
Any fees payable would be settled at the date of termination.
No continuing payment of fees are due if a Non-Executive Director is not re-elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 67 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued This section sets out how our remuneration policy was implemented Remuneration Committees assessment of performance outcomes during the year ended 30 June 2014 and how it will be implemented versus targets set for the coming year.
It also sets out the link between Company performance and Executive Directors remuneration, the context Performance Level of Measure Weighting Performance achievement in which our policy operates, details on our Executive Directors shareholdings and the general governance of Directors remuneration.
Paid-For Products Growth 33% 3.1m Operating Profit 33% 1,260m Variable pay outcomes for the year ended Operating Cash Flow 33% 1,284m Overall Performance 30 June 2014 As shown on pages 36 to 38, the business has delivered another year of strong growth.
As well as delivering a strong financial performance, Performance Key the core businesses are growing well and new areas of business are Achievement against stretch goals up to accelerating.
Against this background we set out below payments Below stretch goals made for the annual bonus, CIP and LTIP for the performance year ended 30 June 2014.
The Committee judges that disclosure of specific targets is Annual bonus for 2014 performance commercially sensitive because we operate in a highly competitive The annual bonus drives the achievement of annual financial and market both in acquiring customers and bidding for key rights with operational business goals.
The plan for 2014 for Executive Directors a very small number of players.
We therefore believe that early and senior executives was based on three equally-weighted measures disclosure of our targets would offer an unfair competitive which were identified by the Committee as being key indicators advantage and would be to the detriment of our shareholders.
of performance driving growth for our business and returns to We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed our shareholders: to be no longer commercially sensitive.
We anticipate this to be two Net Product Growth years after the end of the performance period.
Adjusted Operating Profit Vesting of shares under the Co-Investment Plan 2011-2014 Under the terms of the CIP offered on 30 August 2011 for the Adjusted Operating Cash Flow performance period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2014, Executive Directors We believe the concept of threshold, target and maximum would voluntarily deferred 50% of their earned 2011 bonus into investment compromise the drive for growth so one clear stretch target is set shares which were then matched by the company up to 1.5 times for each performance measure each year.
the gross equivalent of their investment.
This year we have provided more explanation on performance The table below shows the performance conditions for vesting of outcomes.
The table in the next column sets out the Committees the matching shares: assessment of performance versus the three measures for the last performance period.
The Committee sets stretching targets which EPS growth performance Match awarded annual average growth number of matching shares must be delivered to achieve the business plan and for the Executive over three-year term awarded per investment share Directors to receive the maximum bonus.
There are no payments Less than RPI 3% 0.0 above maximum for performance above these stretch targets.
RPI 3% 1.0 The Committee will use its judgement to assess the level of bonus if a stretch target is not met, taking into account personal performance, RPI 4% 1.17 the performance of the other measures, the underlying performance RPI 5% 1.33 of the business, and other factors which the Committee considers to RPI 6% 1.5 be material to the results achieved.
More than RPI 6% 1.5 Straight line interpolation between points Operational performance has been strong, with outperformance i. e. on equivalent gross basis.
against each of our targets.
Despite difficult economic market conditions, paid-for product growth has increased by 23% excluding The average adjusted basic EPS growth rate of 13% per year over the acquired O2 consumer and product base.
Operating profit is the three-year period exceeds the threshold for maximum vesting.
also ahead of target at 1,260 million during a year of investment.
The Committee has agreed that the matching shares under the Operating cash flow has seen another strong performance at 2011 CIP will vest in full on 30 August 2014.
Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2012-2015 Based on the excellent absolute and relative performance against The next vesting of awards made under the terms of the LTIP the key bonus measures and the strong personal performance will occur on 26 July 2015 for the three-year performance period of both Executive Directors, the Committee has decided to award 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015.
This will include vesting of awards made bonus payouts of 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for in 2012 and 2013.
Awards made in 2010 and 2011 vested in July 2013. the CFO, respectively.
68 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Long Term Incentive Plan and Co-Investment Plan Awards made in the Year audited The table below sets out the LTIP and CIP awards made to Executive Directors during the year ended 30 June 2014: Minimum % Maximum % No.
2 Market price at date of CIP matching award was 8.410 on 28 August 2013.
Performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan Awards made in July 2013 were Year 2 nil-cost option awards.
That is, they refer back to the three year performance period beginning on 1 July 2012 and ending on 30 June 2015, and are subject to the following performance conditions: 1.
Operational targets 70% of the award There are three equally weighted operational performance measures, each of which is a key indicator of Skys continued success: EPS growth: a key measure of shareholder returns Operating cash flow: measures our ability to generate and manage cash Revenue growth: core to our growth strategy The Committee believes that early disclosure of our targets would give an advantage to our competitors and would be to the detriment of our shareholders.
We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive.
We anticipate this to be two years after the end of the performance period.
Points are awarded for performance on the three operational measures as follows: For EPS, two points are awarded for growth of RPI 3% per year, with the maximum ten points awarded for RPI 5% per year or more For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of target on a sliding scale up to ten points for 105% or more One point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum vesting for 21 points or more, vesting on a straight-line basis between these points.
There is no additional award for achievement above 21 points.
If the minimum range is met each year for all measures, 26% of the shares vest Annual performance measures are shown in further detail in the table below: Average EPS Growth Operating Cash Flow Revenue Growth Performance achieved Performance achieved Performance achieved Points awarded % of target Points awarded % of target Points awarded RPI 5% p. a.
0 75% 1 75% 1 Less than 75% 0 Less than 75% 0 The top end of the EPS growth range was set for awards in 2012 and 2013 at RPI 5% p. a.
This is equivalent to growth in earnings of 26% over three years if RPI is 3% a year.
This level of growth in earnings was set at a level which exceeded consensus research analysts estimates.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 69 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued 2.
Relative TSR performance 30% of the award Review of past performance TSR performance The Companys TSR performance is measured relative to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 100.
If the Companys TSR performance The graph below shows the Companys TSR for the five years to is below median, the TSR element of the award lapses in full.
30 June 2014, measured as the value of a 100 holding in ordinary For median performance, one-third of the shares subject to shares at the start of the period.
The performance is shown relative the TSR condition may vest, with all the shares vesting for upper to the FTSE 100 and FTSE Media 350 indices, which represent the quartile performance.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis, between broad market indices within which the Companys shares are traded.
these points as shown below.
TSR is a measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming TSR Vesting Schedule reinvestment of dividends.
Data is averaged over three months Payout at the end of each financial year.
Performance conditions for the Co-Investment Plan CIP awards made in 2013 are subject to the performance conditions set out in the table below.
EPS growth performance Match awarded annual average growth number of matching shares over three-year term awarded per investment share Less than RPI 3% 0.0 RPI 3% 1.0 RPI 4% 1.25 RPI 5% 1.5 More than RPI 5% 1.5 Straight line interpolation between points i. e. on equivalent gross basis 70 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Median Upper Quartile Value of a hypothetical 100 investment Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Payments made to Executive Directors The table sets out total remuneration received by the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and the prior year ended 30 June 2013.
The vesting pattern of awards under the LTIP is biennial: shares vest every other year over a three year performance period.
This means that every other year no payment is due as there is no vesting of awards.
The following year, assuming performance conditions are met, there will be a payment which covers the equivalent of two years vesting.
The 2013 single figure for total remuneration includes vesting of a one-off additional LTIP award made in 2011 at the time of the News Corporation bid, as disclosed in the 2011 Report on Directors Remuneration.
2013 was also a vesting year for our LTIP.
The increase for employees who were similarly categorised as outstanding performers ranged up to 10%.
The average increase for employees at that time was 2.5%, rising to 3.5% for those earning less than 50,000 per year, with a range of 0% to 10% for performance, promotions and market adjustments.
2 Taxable benefits include company car or car allowance and healthcare.
3 Pension comprises a cash allowance in lieu of company contributions for Jeremy Darroch.
Andrew Griffith became a deferred member of the pension scheme on 1 December 2013 and received 16,667 in company contributions and 66,814 as a cash allowance.
4 Bonus shows the full amount earned shortly after year end in which the performance measures applied, including amounts deferred through the CIP.
The payout for the 2013 bonus was 195% of base salary for the CEO and 145% for the CFO.
The figures for 2014 are 200% for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
The Executive Directors deferred 50% of their bonus into shares through the CIP in 2013 and it is anticipated they will do so for 2014.
5 Long Term Incentive Plan shows the market value of the awards vested immediately following the end of the relevant performance period.
The figure for 2013 is for LTIP shares vested on 29 July 2013 with a share price of 8.35, and includes the vesting of the one-off additional award of 300,000 shares for the CEO and 135,000 for the CFO made in 2011 at the time of the News Corporation bid.
No LTIP shares vested for the performance period ended 30 June 2014.
6 Co-Investment Plan shows the market value of the matching shares that vested on 31 August 2013 with a share price of 8.525, and the estimated value of matching shares that are due to vest on 30 August 2014, using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of 8.818.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 71 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued CEOs remuneration Implementation of Remuneration Policy for the The table below provides a summary of the total remuneration for the coming year to 30 June 2015 CEO over the past five years including bonus payout, LTIP and CIP vesting The Committee has determined that the remuneration policy will levels.
The table highlights the unique structure of our remuneration be implemented as set out below for the year ending 30 June 2015. policy, in which vesting of LTIP shares occurs every two years rather than the customary 12 month cycle.
As our LTIP awards are made as a fixed Base salary number, the realised value is purely reflective of any share price growth The average salary increase for our employees, effective 1 July 2014, over this period, keeping it aligned to shareholders interests.
was 3.5% for those earning less than 30,000, and 2.5% for all other It should be noted that total remuneration for 2013 includes vesting employees, with increases up to 10% for outstanding performance, of the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares made in 2011 promotions and market adjustments.
Notwithstanding the at the time of the News Corporation bid.
The average annual total outstanding performance of the CEO and CFO, the Committee has remuneration paid to the CEO over this five year period, excluding decided to make modest base salary adjustments of 2.5% for the this one-off award is 7,553,114.
CEO and the 2.96% for the CFO, effective 1 July 2014, to recognise their contribution without compromising the long held intent to Annual LTIP CIP maintain a well-leveraged package with a relatively low level of Bonus vesting vesting fixed pay versus our pay comparator group.
payout rates rates Single against against against Taxable benefits and pension figure maximum maximum maximum of total opportunity opportunity opportunity No changes.
We expect that both of the Executive Directors will 2011 11,133,554 100 83 n a participate in the CIP for this year.
The performance conditions for the vesting of shares are as per the details set out on page 70.
2010 2,678,744 100 n a n a 1 Includes valuation of CIP matching shares due to vest on 30 August 2014, Long Term Incentive Plan award using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of 8.818.
2 Includes vesting of the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares The normal annual awards for the Executive Directors have remained made in 2011 at the time of the News Corporation bid.
unchanged for some years at 600,000 for the CEO and 320,000 for 3 Includes first year of vesting of CIP introduced in 2010. the CFO.
The Committee agreed that Jeremy Darroch would be granted an award of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith would be granted an Percentage change in CEOs remuneration award of 350,000 shares on 25 July 2014.
The adjustment for Andrew Griffith reflects the consolidation of his broader role and his increasing The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration contribution to the business.
This is the Year 1 award of the 2014-2017 from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 compared to the average change for Plan.
These awards will normally vest on 25 July 2017 subject to the all employees.
CEO % change All employees % change The performance conditions for this award remain the same as for Base Salary 2.75% 3.75% employees earning less than those made in 2012 and 2013, and operate using the same methodology 50,000, 2.5% above 50,000 as set out on pages 69 and 70.
Taxable Benefits 5.8% 0% EPS growth target is as per page 69 and the TSR vesting schedule Annual Bonus -5.3% 13.0% is as per page 70.
Relative importance of pay spend The table below shows total employee costs and dividend payments to shareholders for 2013 and 2014.
2013 2014 m m Total employee costs 989 1,044 Dividend payments 441 485 72 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors Share Interests As at the end of the financial year, the CEO had beneficial ownership of 411,695 shares equivalent to 3.82 x base salary and the CFO had beneficial ownership of 117,903 shares, equivalent to 1.75 x base salary, using the year end closing share price of 8.93.
The CEO currently exceeds the new shareholding guidelines.
It is expected that the CFO will meet the new guidelines during the next financial year.
Interests in British Sky Broadcasting Group plc shares audited Shares acquired As at 30 during the As at 30 Notes June 2013 year June 2014 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 1 354,575 57,120 411,695 Andrew Griffith 1, 2 114,452 26,052 117,903 Non-Executive Directors Nick Ferguson 22,128 7,911 30,039 Chase Carey 3 Tracy Clarke 895 842 1,737 David DeVoe 3 Dave Lewis 705 2,049 2,754 Martin Gilbert 2,281 1,392 3,673 Adine Grate 4 9,194 9,194 Andy Higginson 5 6,571 949 7,520 James Murdoch 3 Matthieu Pigasse 2,477 1,287 3,764 Danny Rimer 21,122 4,580 25,702 Arthur Siskind 3 Andy Sukawaty 95 1,069 1,164 1 Interests in shares include shares purchased under the Co-Investment Plan on 28 August 2013 at a price of 8.3998 2 Andrew Griffith disposed of 22,601 ordinary shares at a price of 8.495 on 2 September 2013.
These were acquired in 2010 as investment shares under the CIP and were released on 31 August 2013 when the matching award vested 3 The Directors associated with 21st Century Fox are not permitted to participate in the monthly share purchase plan 4 Adine Grate purchased 9,194 shares at 8.615 on 18 September 2013 5 Andy Higginson participates in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes between 1 July and 25 July 2014.
2 Following the vesting of awards, participants continuing to be employed by the Company have five years to exercise their award.
3 Performance conditions relating to LTIP awards made in 2010 and 2011 were disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report.
4 Dividends are payable on shares purchased through the CIP.
During the year the Executive Directors received 134,560 2013: 101,590.
5 Performance conditions relating to CIP matching awards can be found on page 68.
6 The Company has not made any Executive Share Option awards since 2004.
74 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Single Figure for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and the prior year ended 30 June 2013.
2 Tracy Clarke replaced Danny Rimer as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 21 November 2013.
Danny Rimer stepped down as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee on 22 November 2013.
3 Adine Grate was appointed Non-Executive Director on 17 July 2013 and joined the Audit Committee on 26 July 2013.
Fees for the Chairman and base Non-Executive Director fees were increased by 2.5% effective 1 July 2014, as detailed in the table below: 1 July 1 July 2014 2013 Chairman all inclusive fee 473,934 462,375 1 Deputy Chairman 30,000 30,000 Board member 61,500 60,000 Additional responsibilities Senior Independent Director 40,000 40,000 Chairman of Committee 25,000 25,000 Member of Committee 10,000 10,000 1 The role of Deputy Chairman is not required to be filled at this present time.
Payments to past Directors and loss of office There were no payments made to past directors and no payments made for loss of office during the financial year.
Shareholder voting outcomes The Company is committed to engaging with shareholders and every year holds a meeting to talk about remuneration with major shareholders and institutional investor groups.
This enables the Company to take shareholders views fully into account when making decisions about remuneration.
At the AGM held on 22 November 2013, 77.4% of shareholders voted in favour of the Directors report on remuneration.
Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Cast Votes Withheld Approval of the remuneration report 1,020,278,744 77.4% 297,928,375 22.6% 1,318,207,119 7,495,148 The Committee has sought the views of major shareholders since then and has made a number of important changes to the Companys policy in response to this as set out in the Chairmans statement on page 59.
Membership of the Committee During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Committee chaired by Tracy Clarke met five times.
Nick Ferguson, Martin Gilbert, and Andy Sukawaty are members of the Committee.
Danny Rimer stepped down as Chairman and member of the Committee on 22 November 2013.
Martin Gilbert stepped down as a member of the Committee on 24 July 2014 and Adine Grate was appointed in his place with effect from 25 July 2014.
Attendance during the year is shown on page 50.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 75 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued Role of the Committee The role of the Committee is to oversee the remuneration policy so that the Company is able to recruit, retain and motivate its Executives and reward their individual contributions in a fair and responsible manner.
The Committee reviews the design and structure of employee incentives and is responsible for approving the key terms of employment for the Executive Directors or any senior executive who reports directly to the CEO.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys corporate website.
Committee activities during the year The table below shows a summary of the key areas discussed by the Committee during the financial year.
July 2013 November 2013 February 2014 April 2014 June 2014 Performance outcomes for Performance update Performance update Performance update Policy review on 2014 bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP Directors Remuneration Report Target setting for 2013 14 Update on 2013 reporting 2014 Directors New reporting and season Remuneration Report implications for Sky Approach to Shareholder Review draft Directors requirements engagement Remuneration Report Shareholder feedback and proxy voting guidance Benchmarking for Executive Directors 2014 Directors Remuneration Report requirements Advisors to the Committee Towers Watson acted as independent advisors to the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives on Executive Directors remuneration is independent and objective.
Terms of reference are monitored throughout the appointment.
Towers Watson subscribes to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration.
The Code clarifies the scope and conduct of the role of remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
The fees paid to Towers Watson for their services in relation to directors pay totalled 193,612.
The CEO and the Director for People provide information and advice and attend meetings as required.
The Committee is also supported by the Company Secretary, Finance and Human Resources functions.
No individuals are involved in the decision in relation to their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Tracy Clarke Chairman of Remuneration Committee 76 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
