Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Gover Governance finance 51 Directors remuneration report aligned with our growth ambitions.
In undertaking the review, we also Annual Statement from the Chairman of the carefully considered the views of our shareholders, market practice Remuneration Committee and the wider governance environment as well as consulting with many of our largest shareholders and other stakeholders.
I am pleased to present the As a result of the review we have made a number of key changes to Directors Remuneration Report our Remuneration Policy for 2014 15 and beyond.
For all senior management participants we propose to simplify and improve the for the year ended 28 September alignment of our long-term incentive plans LTIPs with our growth ambitions by using a common EPS metric across both the PSP and 2014, which was a strong year ESOP.
While this creates a simpler focus for participants on long-term EPS growth, we will retain a link of 25% of the PSP to our relative for Britvic and our shareholders.
Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against an identified group of comparators.
To further simplify and take account of our The contents of this annual statement provide an growing international footprint we have decoupled the link to RPI for overview of the remuneration outcomes for the the EPS measure and have moved to an absolute EPS growth metric period ending on 28 September 2014 and also designed to reflect stretching long-term performance standards over the future business cycles.
The revised EPS range is more challenging cover the changes that we intend to make to the than that used in prior years and we have reduced vesting for Remuneration Policy for directors from the 2014 15 threshold performance to 20% of the maximum award to further year along with the supporting rationale.
strengthen the link between pay and performance and reflect The remainder of the report sets out: emerging investor views on this point.
An at a glance summary of the key pay decisions taken over the In recognition of feedback received from some investors during the year and proposed Remuneration Policy for directors in 2014 15 consultation period, the Committee will also consider underlying ROIC and beyond performance delivered over the performance period prior to determining the final vesting outcome of the PSP and may scale back The proposed Remuneration Policy for directors that will take effect vesting if appropriate for the level of EPS growth achieved.
subject to shareholder approval from the Annual General Meeting AGM in January 2015 Finally, for the CEO, the Committee intends to increase his maximum PSP award to 150% of salary to recognise his and Britvics continued The annual report on remuneration which is subject to an advisory strong performance by aligning his total package more closely with shareholder vote at the January 2015 AGM and sets out the detail market norms for a company of Britvics size and scope.
In addition of payments made to directors in respect of the year ended and in recognition of investor feedback, the Committee also intends 28 September 2014 to double the CEOs long-term shareholding requirement to 200% This is the first Britvic remuneration report prepared under the new from the current 100% of salary.
This change will ensure his interests remuneration reporting regulations and it is the intention of the remain closely aligned with sustained long-term value creation for our Remuneration Committee the Committee to operate the proposed shareholders and also consistent with emerging best practice guidance.
Remuneration Policy from the January 2015 AGM for a period of In addition, as the rules for the current PSP and ESOP will expire in three years.
However it may be necessary to bring amendments to 2015, a new set of rules for these plans will be submitted to the Remuneration Policy back to shareholders for approval in shareholders for approval at the AGM in 2015.
The new rules are advance of this in certain circumstances e. g. such as a significant materially the same as the current rules and are in line with the unanticipated strategic change to the company.
proposed policy set out in this remuneration report.
The Committee strongly believes that our simplified remuneration Remuneration outcomes from policies will support Britvics plans to grow our core and international 2013 2014 businesses, provide an appropriate balance of growth and returns in our long-term incentive mix and ensure a strong line of sight for As a result of our performance against profit before tax, net revenue participants between performance and reward.
and cash flow targets set at the outset of the year annual bonus pay The Committee and I are also committed to ensuring an open dialogue outs for Executive Directors are at 72% of maximum which reflects with our shareholders and recognise there are a number of competing another strong year for Britvic.
views across the various stakeholders.
The proposed changes described Against the three-year EPS, TSR and ROIC performance conditions above are intended to represent what the Committee believes to be attaching to our long-term incentive awards made in December 2011 the an appropriate balance of opinions.
Therefore, should you have any Executive Directors share options ESOP will vest at 69% of maximum questions relating to our approach to executive remuneration, please and the Performance Share Plan PSP will vest at 50% of maximum.
feel free to contact me at investors@britvic.
In line with the remuneration reporting regulations, details of the In the meantime, I look forward to receiving your support on both performance targets and actual achievement against these are set parts of the remuneration report at the January 2015 AGM.
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Proposed Remuneration Policy for 2014 15 and beyond Bob Ivell During the year, the Committee undertook a review of remuneration to ensure our Executive Directors and senior leadership team participate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in a simple and effective set of incentive arrangements that are directly Directors 52 Governance Directors remuneration report continued remuneration report Britvic remuneration at a glance This section summarises the remuneration outcomes for the 2013 14 year, how the proposed Remuneration Policy will be implemented for 2014 15 and the link between remuneration and our strategy.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors 2013 2014 000 Executive Directors Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Simon Litherland 546.2 21.1 552.0 672.0 139.5 1,930.8 John Gibney 355.9 20.5 308.3 923.9 80.9 1,689.5 Summary of incentive outcomes for 2013 14 Annual Bonus Performance required for target Actual 2014 bonus awarded Weighting % of payout performance % of maximum Performance measure bonus maximum m m CEO CFO 1 PBT 50% 128.5 132.9 84.4% 84.4% 1 Revenue 20% 1,397.0 1,359.7 0.0% 0.0% 1 Free cash flow 30% 82.0 88.9 100.0% 100.0% Total 100% 72.2% 72.2% Note 1: Profit before tax PBT Profit before tax before exceptional and other items Revenue Actual revenue performance translated at budgeted foreign exchange rates Free cash flow Cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and other items These measures and definitions are consistently used throughout this Remuneration Report.
Long Term Incentives Performance conditions Level of award vesting for CEO Plan and targets set Performance outcome and CFO % of maximum 2 ESOP 3-year EPS growth of RPI 3% EPS growth in excess of RPI of 69.0% - 7% p. a.
5.4% p. a. was achieved PSP 3-year Relative TSR 50% Britvics TSR was positioned 50.0% weighting : Ranking between in the upper quartile vs the median and upper quartile vs the comparator group comparator group ROIC of 20.7% was achieved 3-year average ROIC 50% weighting : 21.5% - 22.3% Note 2: EPS Adjusted diluted earnings per share This definition is used consistently throughout this Remuneration Report.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors remuneration report continued 53 Summary of intended implementation of proposed Remuneration Policy for 2014 15 Summary for 2014 15 Notes Base Salary CEO: 560,000 increasing to 580,000 from 1 January 2015 The Committee have agreed to increase base salaries by 3.6% to 580,000 for the CEO and CFO: 360,000 increasing to 374,400 from 1 January 2015 4% to 374,400 for the CFO from 1 January 2015 which is consistent with the 2% to 4% range planned for the wider GB-based staff.
Annual Bonus Target and maximum opportunities are: No change from 2013 14.
70% and 140% of base salary for the CEO 60% and 120% for the CFO The following performance metrics and weightings apply to the bonus: PBT 50% Revenue 20% Free cash flow 30% ESOP The maximum opportunities are No change in award levels.
300% of base salary for the CEO EPS remains the performance measure for the ESOP awards albeit on a tougher performance 250% of base salary for the CFO range.
For ESOP grants made in 2014 15, performance is measured Threshold vesting has been reduced to 20% for using EPS.
20% of the maximum award vests for achieving 2014 15 from 25% in 2013 14. threshold performance of 6% p. a. EPS growth increasing on a straight line basis to 100% vesting for EPS growth of 12% p. a. PSP The maximum opportunity is 150% of base salary for the CEO EPS 75% weighting and TSR 25% weighting and 100% for the CFO.
have replaced the previous performance measures of TSR and ROIC which were equally For PSP grants made in 2014 15, performance on 75% of weighted.
the award is measured using 3-year EPS growth.
20% of the maximum award vests for achieving threshold performance Threshold vesting has been reduced to 20% for of 6% p. a. EPS growth increasing on a straight line basis to 2014 15 from 25% in 2013 14.
100% vesting for EPS growth of 12% p. a.. A ROIC underpin has also been maintained.
The performance on the remaining 25% of the PSP award made in 2014 15 is based on 3-year relative TSR.
20% of the maximum award vests for achieving threshold performance of the median of the comparator group, increasing on a straight line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
The Committee will also consider underlying ROIC over the performance period to ensure it remains appropriate relative to the EPS growth delivered.
Shareholding 200% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO.
The CEOs requirement has increased from requirements 100% of salary in 2013 14.
54 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Linking remuneration and strategy The table below sets out how Britvics key incentives and their supporting performance metrics link to our strategy.
Incentive Purpose Metric Link to strategy PBT is a measure of the companys financial performance and, in particular, how successful the company has been Profit before at accelerating its profitability from the various strategic tax PBT initiatives in place.
For bonus purposes PBT is preexceptional items and other items in order to reflect the underlying financial performance of the business.
To motivate employees and Annual Bonus Reflects the core strategic objective of growing revenues incentivise delivery of annual Revenue in all the companys markets, particularly in international performance targets.
Free cash flow is a measure of the companys financial health, a key corporate objective of improving cash Free cash flow conversion.
It is vitally important in ensuring our ability to continue investing in international opportunities as well as maintain our goal of a progressive dividend policy.
EPS is an important long-term financial metric linked to Three year long-term value creation for our shareholders and also EPS growth supports our continued goal of a progressive dividend policy.
To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained, long-term Relative TSR strongly links share price growth and LTIPs ESOP performance and encourage dividends to the rewards executives receive.
The relative Three year and PSP share price and dividend nature of the measure ensures participants only receive relative TSR growth over the performance awards if outperformance is achieved against a basket period of the awards.
Return on invested capital is an important financial ROIC discipline to ensure long-term investment returns to shareholders are value enhancing.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors remuneration report continued 55 Our overall approach to remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy The principal objective of our executive Remuneration Policy is to The Remuneration Policy set out in this section is intended to apply support a performance-based culture that will help drive the for three years from the date of the 2015 AGM, subject to shareholder successful execution of our business strategy.
We aim to provide approval.
competitive levels of remuneration opportunity for our senior Executives and leadership team, a significant portion of which is in the There is no intention to revise the policy more frequently than every form of variable pay.
However the Committee will review the Remuneration Policy annually in order to ensure it remains aligned with the In setting the Remuneration Policy the Committee carefully companys strategy, appropriately positioned against the market and considered corporate governance best practice and the companys aligned with corporate governance requirements.
In the event a change to the policy is required, the Committee will Remuneration Policy table consult with Britvics major shareholders prior to submitting the policy The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy the Committee will for approval by all shareholders.
apply to Directors in 2014 15 subject to Shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Element and Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy Operation and payment at target measures Base Salary Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed Whilst there is no prescribed formulaic n a annually, with any changes normally taking maximum, annual increases will normally Element of fixed effect from 1 January.
be in the context of overall business pay that reflects performance and the level awarded to the the individuals role, Out of cycle reviews may be conducted if general GB-based workforce.
position, experience considered appropriate by the Committee.
and contribution to Higher increases may be made where Base salaries are set with reference to the group.
there have been significant changes in the comparator groups made up of similar sized responsibility and accountability in a role, UK listed companies both pan-sector and where there are large from the food and beverages sector.
variances to the market, for example in the The Committee also has reference to case of a new Executive Director appointed international food and beverages companies.
on a salary below the market median, or Alternative peer groups may be considered where there is a significant change in the depending on the location and domicile of relationship of the company relative to the Directors based outside of the UK.
Any significant increases will be fully explained.
Benefits Benefits and allowances include but are not The maximum levels of benefit provision are: n a limited to: annual car benefit or allowance, To provide market Provision of a company car or car membership of the companys private typical benefits allowance paid in cash.
The company car medical healthcare plan, and the ability to which are valued rental cost would not exceed 10,800 and buy or sell holiday under the companys by recipients and a cash allowance would not exceed flexible benefits plan, payment of up to two allow Executives to 10,634 per annum subscriptions to recognised professional carry out their duties Private medical insurance on a private bodies, and life assurance.
basis There is also a relocation policy which The value of any professional subscriptions provides for reasonable expenses to be paid paid by the company may vary but would subject to the Committees approval.
not be excessive Other benefits may be provided from Life assurance cover of 4 times base salary time to time if considered reasonable The value of any relocation allowance and appropriate by the Committee and provided is dependent on the relevant will be explained in the Annual Report on circumstances when the need arises.
Remuneration for the relevant year.
However the Committee would not pay more than necessary in such situations.
Up to 5 days holiday may be sold at a prorated value of the individuals salary.
56 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Element and Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy Operation and payment at target measures Pension Pension provision is provided in the For the defined contribution pension, n a form of a defined contribution DC the maximum annual contribution is: Supports a pension or a cash allowance where market aligned 28% of base salary for the CEO the individual opts out of the pension compensation 25% of base salary for the CFO scheme as a result of exceeding the tax package and assists efficient pension savings limits set by For the cash allowance, the maximum participants plan for HMRC.
contributions reflect those under the retirement.
DC pension less a deduction to ensure A legacy defined benefit pension and the cash allowance is broadly cost Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS, neutral to the company from a National a securitised unfunded unregistered Insurance perspective.
pension scheme, closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011.
Current A discounted one-off cash settlement of Executive Directors have accrued the BETUS may be offered to an eligible benefits under these arrangements.
member of the legacy defined benefit plan who is leaving or retiring from the company.
Annual Bonus Annual bonuses are paid after the year Target and maximum opportunities are: The specific measures, targets and end of the financial year to which they weighting may vary from year to year in To motivate 70% and 140% of base salary for the relate.
order to align with the groups strategy, employees and CEO but always with a substantial proportion incentivise delivery of Targets are set at the beginning of the 60% and 120% for the CFO based on key financial metrics.
annual performance performance year which runs from the The level of payment at threshold is set targets.
start to the end of each financial period.
For 2014 15 the annual bonus will be on an annual basis but will not exceed based 100% on key financial metrics.
The Committee has the discretion to 25% of the maximum award value.
adjust the bonus outcome if the pure The performance conditions are set application of a formula is not felt to annually based on the metrics the produce an appropriate result in light Committee feels are most appropriate for the business and create value for of overall underlying performance.
These may include, In particular the Committee has but are not limited to, profit, revenue the discretion to adjust payments and cash flow metrics.
Strategic KPIs downwards if profits have fallen.
Any may be chosen to support particular adjustment made using this discretion objectives for the year.
Annual bonus targets are set with Malus and clawback may be applied reference to internal budgets and analyst in respect of the bonus in certain consensus forecasts, with maximum situations where the payment of pay-out requiring performance well the bonus resulted from a material ahead of budget.
misstatement in the companys accounts or an error in the assessment Further details of performance measures of the satisfaction of a performance for the 2014 15 annual bonus are given condition.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors remuneration report continued 57 Element and Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy Operation and payment at target measures Long-Term Incentives ESOP - Allows for annual grants ESOPThe maximum The Committee chooses performance metrics Executive Share of market value options.
Awards opportunities are: measured over three years that support the Option Plan ESOP and vest after three years, subject companys long-term strategic priorities, provide 300% of base salary for Performance Share Plan to performance conditions.
a direct link with shareholder value and ensure the CEO PSP Options expire 10 years a clear line of sight for participants between 250% of base salary for following the grant date.
To motivate and incentivise the CFO delivery of sustained, PSP - Allows for annual grants For ESOP grants made in 2014 15, performance PSP - The maximum long-term performance and of performance share awards.
will be measured using an EPS performance opportunity is 150% of base encourage share price and Awards vest after three years, condition.
salary for the CEO and 100% dividend growth over the subject to performance For PSP grants made in 2014 2015, 75% for the CFO.
performance period of the conditions.
of performance will be measured using the awards.
Under the ESOP and PSP 20% Under the PSP participants are same EPS performance condition as for the of the maximum award vests for The Committee believes entitled to dividend equivalents ESOP, with the remaining 25% of performance achieving threshold performance that long-term incentive between award and vesting in measured using relative TSR.
ROIC over the increasing to 100% of the plan measures should respect of awards that vest.
performance period will also be considered by maximum opportunity vesting be simple, aligned to the Committee in determining the level of vesting Malus and clawback may for achieving maximum sustainable long-term at the end of the period.
be applied in respect of LTIP performance on a straight line shareholder value creation awards in certain situations EPS growth is a key measure of our success in basis.
as well as providing line of where the vesting of an LTIP growing value for shareholders over time.
The sight to management so award resulted from a material setting of the EPS targets takes into account that they are meaningful misstatement in the companys analyst consensus forecasts, internal projections, and incentivising.
accounts or an error in the and the levels of performance required over the assessment of the satisfaction long-term to deliver absolute value appreciation of a performance condition.
Relative TSR strongly links share price growth and dividends to the rewards executives receive.
The relative nature of the measure ensures participants only receive awards if outperformance is achieved against a basket of investment comparables.
ROIC is an important financial discipline to ensure growth in the business continues to be value enhancing over the long-term.
The Committee may adjust the performance measures for future awards and the weighting of these measures if it feels this will create greater alignment with business and strategic priorities.
A significant change to the measures used would only be adopted following consultation with major shareholders.
Shareholding Guidelines Executive Directors are to Shareholdings are set at 200% n a acquire and then hold a certain of base salary for the CEO and To encourage long-term shareholding from the date of 100% for the CFO from the date share ownership by the their appointment to the board.
of appointment to the board.
Executive Directors so that interests are aligned with Until this holding is acquired, The Committee will monitor other long-term investors the Executive Directors may progress on this requirement not sell any shares received on an annual basis.
through the long term incentives operated by the company other than to finance the cost of exercising share options and any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the Committee for example, in cases of financial hardship.
58 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Element and Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy Operation and payment at target measures All-employee Executive Directors may participate Free share awards, up to a The Committee has the discretion to Share Plans in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan, maximum of 4% of earnings, limit the free share awards in light of which is an all-employee HMRC capped at 3,600 per annum.
performance against internal profit To allow Executives approved share plan open to targets.
Partnership shares, up to 1,800 to participate in employees based in Great Britain.
share plans on the The plan has three parts, all of which same terms as other Matching shares, on a one for one the Directors participate in: employees.
basis up to a maximum of 650 per Free share awards, which are made year.
annually subject to the companys performance and at the discretion of the Committee Partnership shares, which are purchased by employees through payroll deductions Matching shares, which are provided by the employer to individuals purchasing partnership shares The Committee reserves the right to use its discretion to amend the operation of the all-employee share plan from time to time.
Chairman and The fees paid to the Chairman are The maximum fee level for each NED n a Non-Executive determined by the Committee, while is set by reference to fees paid in UKDirector NED fees the fees of the NEDs are determined listed companies of a similar size and by the Board with affected persons scope to Britvic.
To attract and retain absenting themselves from the experienced and Any planned increases in fees discussions as appropriate.
skilled Non-Executive will take into account general Directors.
Annual fees are paid to the Chairman increases across the wider employee and other NEDs on a monthly basis.
Additional fees are paid to NEDs who are members of and who chair a board Committee and to the Senior Independent Director SID.
NED fee levels are periodically reviewed by the board for NEDs and the Committee for the Chairman.
Any increases to fees are normally effective from 1st January.
NEDs do not participate in company incentive arrangements, and do not receive any form of pension provision.
NEDs will be reimbursed by the company for all reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties of office.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors remuneration report continued 59 Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Remuneration Policy notes Policy Differences in Remuneration Policy for all employees A key element of the companys Remuneration Policy is to provide a All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits and may also significant part of potential reward through performance based receive bonus, pension, and share awards the value of which vary incentive plans.
Set out below is the reward mix for both Executive according to the individuals seniority and level of responsibility.
Directors at minimum performance, on-target performance and maximum performance as proposed under the Remuneration Policy.
Share awards made prior to the implementation of The potential total rewards available to the Executive Directors, approved Remuneration Policy ignoring any change in share price and roll-up of dividends, are set Unvested ESOP and PSP awards will continue to pay out in out in the illustration below.
The Committee believes that the mix and accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Any payments under these variability in the reward package is aligned with our performanceplans will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration as orientated remuneration principles and business objectives already required by the regulations.
A summary of the operation of the described above.
outstanding awards is set out below: 3,000 LTIP Summary of Performance 2,662 Element operation measures Short term incentives 2,500 Total fixed pay ESOP awards made Maximum PSP opportunity 100% EPS 41% 2,000 prior to the 2014 15 is 100% of salary for the growth 1,815 financial year CEO and CFO.
ESOP is as 1,593 shown in the main policy 1,500 36% PSP awards made 50% relative table.
0 Min Target Max Min Target Max Committee discretion Simon Litherland John Gibney In addition to the discretion set out in this policy report, the Committee may apply discretion in operating the Remuneration Policy in certain matters including the following: The above chart has been prepared using the following assumptions: 1 Base salaries are as proposed as at 1 January 2015 The timing of any payments 2 Benefits reflect those estimated to be paid in 2014 15 The impact of a change of control or restructuring 3 Target bonus is calculated at 50% of maximum opportunity Any adjustments to performance conditions or awards required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate 4 Target vesting for the PSP is 60%, being the mid-point between restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue threshold and maximum vesting level The operation of malus and clawback provisions 5 Options awarded under the ESOP are valued on the standard market value for options of 30% of the face value of award.
A Minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of operation target vesting of 60% values the ESOP award at 18% of the of the plans or to comply with local tax law or regulation maximum value Discretion regarding the treatment of leavers is set out in Service Statement of consideration of employment contracts and the policy on the payment for loss of office section.
conditions elsewhere in Britvic The Committee also reserves the right to make a remuneration The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions payment that originated from before the individual became an across the Group and has reference to average pay increases and the Executive Director.
average salaries for the wider employee population.
These metrics are considered by the Committee when reviewing the remuneration for In relation to the annual bonus and LTIP plans, the Committee retains Executive Directors.
the ability to amend the performance conditions and or measures in respect of any award or payment if one or more event s have The company did not consult with employees when drawing up the occurred which would lead the Committee to consider that it would Remuneration Policy.
be appropriate to do so, provided that such an amendment would not be materially less difficult to meet.
If the Committee used any of the discretions set out above these would, where relevant, be disclosed in the next Annual Remuneration Report and the views of major shareholders may also be sought.
000 60 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Statement of consideration of shareholder views Approach to remuneration on recruitment The Committee is committed to on-going dialogue with the companys When hiring a new Executive Director, or making internal promotions shareholder base.
This can take a variety of forms, such as: to the Board, the Committee will in principle apply the same policy as for existing Executive Directors, as detailed in the Remuneration Meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential Policy.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular next Annual Remuneration Report.
shareholder groups For internal promotions any commitments made prior to appointment Other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback on may continue to be honoured as the Executive is transitioned to the planned refinements to arrangements new remuneration arrangements.
In drawing up the Remuneration Policy presented in this report, the Our recruitment Remuneration Policy aims to give the Committee Chair of the Committee wrote to Britvics major shareholders and key sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of institutional representative bodies and held several follow up high-calibre Executives to strengthen the management team and meetings.
The views expressed by our shareholders during this secure the skill sets to deliver our strategic objectives.
The details are process have been considered in the development of the set out in the table below: Remuneration Policy.
Area Policy and operation Base salary Base salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.
In some instances it may be appropriate to recruit on a salary at the lower end of the typical market range and progress salary increases above the typical rate of increases provided to the wider employee workforce to align with performance and policy over time Benefits and pension Benefits and pension would be in line with normal policy and may include, where appropriate, relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the territory in which the Executive Director is employed Annual bonus Awards would be made under the annual bonus plan in line with the Remuneration Policy Maximum opportunity would not exceed 140% of base salary Normal LTIP awards Awards would be made under the LTIP plans in line with the Remuneration Policy ESOP and PSP Under the ESOP, maximum opportunity would not exceed 300% of base salary Under the PSP, maximum opportunity would not exceed 150% of base salary Additional LTIP awards On the recruitment of a director the Committee may make a one-off performance linked award under ESOP and PSP the ESOP and PSP subject to the below limits.
Under the ESOP an award of up to 500% of base salary may be made in a year to an executive inclusive of the normal annual award that would be granted to an executive Under the PSP an award of up to 200% of base salary may be made in a year to an executive inclusive of the normal annual award that would be granted to an executive Replacement awards The Committee will normally seek to avoid using replacement awards.
However where, in exceptional circumstances, replacement awards are considered by the Committee to be necessary, they are not subject to a formal maximum, although would be designed to reflect only the value of remuneration forgone by the recruited Executive or less.
In making any buyout awards the Committee would take into account any additional LTIP awards made as set out above Service contracts The Committee may agree a contractual notice period with the Executive which initially exceeds twelve months, as applies to other Executives, particularly if it is necessary to attract Executives who will be required to relocate their families This will reduce to a twelve month rolling notice period once the individual is twelve months from the end of their initial notice period Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors remuneration report continued 61 Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The table below sets out items that are contained within the service contracts for the Executive Directors.
It is the policy that these will apply to any future Director.
Item Policy Notice period 12 months if given by the company 6 months if given by the Executive Remuneration Base salary and pension Eligibility to participate in the annual bonus and LTIP and other share incentive plans Benefits Provision of company car or cash alternative Payment of professional subscriptions for up to two recognised professional bodies Eligibility for private medical insurance Contractual The company may terminate the Executives employment at any time and with immediate effect and will pay the termination payment Executive an after tax sum in lieu of notice equal to the basic salary which the Executive would have been entitled to receive during their notice period.
A payment may also be made in respect of outstanding untaken holiday entitlement accrued up to and including the date of termination Payments in lieu of notice would be paid monthly and are subject to mitigation if the Executive obtains alternative income during the period If the Executive is terminated for reasons such as gross misconduct no payment in lieu of notice will be due The Committee may at its discretion put the Executive on garden leave for any period provided that base salary and contractual benefits are paid during this period.
The Committee would only use this discretion when appropriate and would seek to minimise the cost to the company if such discretion was required Non-Executive The NEDs do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment for a three-year term Directors On termination NEDs shall only be entitled to accrued fees as at the date of termination In the event of a settlement agreement, the Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The table below sets out details of how an Executive Directors incentives and pension would be treated on termination.
Items of fixed pay are detailed in the previous table.
Incentives Treatment Annual Bonus In the case of retirement with the agreement of the Committee, redundancy, death in service, or such other reason as the Committee may in its discretion approve, the bonus will be pro-rated to the date of termination and paid on the normal payment date Executives leaving for any other reason will normally forfeit their awards ESOP & PSP Awards for executives who are treated as a good leaver under the rules of the LTIPs reasons include ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, change of control, retirement with the consent of the company, and any other reason at the Committees discretion will vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines the awards should vest at an alternative date taking into consideration the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied and time served over the performance period If the executive is not a good leaver, the awards will lapse immediately on termination If the executive ceases to be a director as a result of death, awards will vest as soon as practicable taking into consideration the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied and time served over the performance period Pension The Committee may consider offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to a member who is leaving the company to reduce the companys balance sheet exposure to the BETUS liability.
This is normally used at retirement All members of the defined benefits section of the pension plan Plan may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which allows the Plan members to retire within five years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their pension.
The EERF includes benefits payable from BETUS and is non-contractual.
Continuation of the EERF formed part of the agreement with the Plan trustee on the closure of the defined benefit section of the Plan.
The company has given notice to all of the Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016 Other appointments The Executive Directors are not permitted to have any engagement with any other company during the term of their appointment without the prior written consent of the board.
62 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable keeping in touch Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Gover Governance finance 63 Annual report on remuneration Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Membership of the Advisors In August 2014 the Committee undertook a review of remuneration Remuneration Committee advisors and following a competitive tender process, PwC were During the year, the Committee consisted wholly of independent appointed as the advisors to the Committee.
The company is also Non-Executive Directors: advised by PwC on other remuneration-related items and provided consulting support on non remuneration-related issues.
PwC is a Bob Ivell Chairman member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional Michael Shallow up until resignation on 1 July 2014 body for executive remuneration consultants.
PwCs fees in respect Ben Gordon of advice to the Committee in the year under review were 28,900 Gerald Corbett and were charged on the basis of that firms standard terms of Ian McHoul following appointment on 10 March 2014 business for advice provided.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, The Committee also received advice from Towers Watson during the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Human Resources, IT year.
Towers Watson were appointed as advisors in 2005 and have & Change Director, Director of Compensation & Benefits, General also provided advice on other remuneration related items.
Towers Counsel & Company Secretary attend the meetings of the Committee Watsons fees in respect of advice to the Committee in the year under to provide input to assist the Committee in the consideration of review were 42,040 and were charged on the basis of that firms particular items, except when their own remuneration is under standard terms of business for advice provided.
Details of the attendance by Committee members at Committee meetings are shown in the Corporate Governance section During the year, Addleshaw Goddard LLP were also engaged by the on page 50.
Committee to provide legal advice on contractual arrangements, share schemes and pension matters.
Composition and terms Unless otherwise stated, these advisors have no other connection with the company and the Committee, based on its experience, is of reference satisfied that the advice it received from these organisations was The Committees composition and terms of reference are in line with objective and independent.
the UK Corporate Governance Code and are available on the companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
While the Chairman, who was independent on initial appointment, is a member of the Remuneration Committee, he is not present when his own remuneration is under discussion.
The Committee meets no less than three times a year and has responsibility for: Reviewing Executives remuneration in terms of the pay policy of the company as a whole, pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, and the overall cost to the shareholders Determining, within agreed terms of reference, and taking into account corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues, the remuneration of the Chairman and specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive team, including pension rights, any compensation payments and benefits Approving the design and operation of the companys incentive arrangements, both short and long-term.
This includes agreeing the targets that are applied to awards made to senior Executives Responsibility for all of the companys employee share plans and the share dilution position Ensuring, via regular reviews, that the companys pay policies remain appropriate and relevant 64 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Changes made to the 2014 15 Statement of implementation Remuneration Policy of Remuneration Policy in the Following the change to the companys strategy announced in May following year 2013 the Committee undertook a review of our Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy will be implemented from to ensure the Executive Directors and senior leadership team the 2015 AGM in accordance with the policy as participate in a simple and effective set of incentive arrangements that follows: are directly aligned with the companys strategy and growth aspirations.
The review focused on the annual bonus, PSP and ESOP.
Base salary The Committee also carefully considered the views of our shareholders Following the year-end review, the Committee made the following base meeting with several during the review process, market practice and salary decisions to take effect from 1 January 2015 which are in line the wider governance environment.
As a result of this review, the with the disclosed policy in this report.
Committee deemed it appropriate to propose the following changes to Remuneration Policy for 2014 15, the first year that the policy will require a binding vote of approval at the 2015 AGM.
Greatly simplify and improve the effectiveness of both LTIPs by 000 000 Increase adopting the same EPS performance condition for vesting of 2014 15 and future awards under the ESOP and PSP.
The revised Simon Litherland 560.0 580.0 3.6% PSP will vest based 75% on EPS and retain 25% dependent on the John Gibney 360.0 374.4 4.0% current relative TSR measure.
The Committee will also consider underlying ROIC performance over the performance period when In reviewing salary for 2015 the Committee took into account a range assessing the outcome of the PSP.
of factors including the typical salary increase made for GB-based 2.
Provide a tougher and simpler performance range that is consistent employees of 2% to 4%.
with sector peer practice by adopting a three-year absolute EPS range of 6% - 12% p. a. rather than the current RPI 3% to 7% p. a. condition.
Reduce the threshold vesting under both share plans to 20% from Implemented in line with policy.
the current 25% of maximum a material strengthening of the Annual Bonus whole performance range.
Implemented in line with policy.
Align the CEOs total package more closely with competitive market weightings are: norms by increasing his PSP award by 50% of salary.
Strengthen the CEOs alignment with long-term shareholder interests Revenue 20% by doubling his shareholding requirement to 200% of salary.
Free cash flow 30% The Committee is satisfied that the revised package provides a much Target award amounts for the CEO and CFO are 70% and 60% of simpler set of LTIPs that are more directly aligned with the companys base salary respectively, and maximum award values are 140% and strategic goals and long-term shareholder interests.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets under the bonus plan are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
Disclosure of targets in advance could lead the company to be at a disadvantage as many competitors are not subject to the same levels of disclosure.
Targets and the performance against them will be disclosed in the remuneration report following the end of the financial year.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued 65 Long-term incentive plans PSP and ESOP Implemented in line with policy.
Following the year-end review, the Committee has determined that subject to shareholder approval at the AGM the following awards be made in 2014 15 in line with the disclosed policy of this report: Award at threshold Award at Estimated vesting, 20% maximum Face value of of maximum vesting % of awards Performance Award type Performance measure % salary salary 000 Period Threshold vesting for EPS growth 3 years of 6% p. a. commencing Share options 60% 300% 1,680 29th September Maximum vesting for EPS growth 2014 of 12% p. a. EPS growth 75% weighting : Threshold vesting for EPS growth of 6% p. a. Simon Maximum vesting for EPS growth Litherland 3 years of 12% p. a.
Performance commencing 30% 150% 840 Relative TSR 25% weighting : shares 29th September 2014 Threshold payout for ranking at median vs the comparator group of 18 companies and maximum payout for ranking at or above the upper quartile.
Threshold vesting for EPS growth 3 years of 6% p. a. commencing Share options Maximum vesting for EPS growth 50% 250% 900 29th September of 12% p. a.
2014 EPS growth 75% weighting : Threshold vesting for EPS growth of 6% p. a. John Gibney Maximum vesting for EPS growth 3 years of 12% p. a. commencing Performance 20% 100% 360 Relative TSR 25% weighting : 29th September shares 2014 Threshold payout for ranking at median vs the comparator group of 18 companies and maximum payout for ranking at or above the upper quartile Note 1: EPS will be measured using adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
2: The option exercise price will be disclosed retrospectively next year after the options have been granted under the ESOP.
3: The Committee will also consider underlying ROIC over the performance period when assessing the vesting of the PSP to ensure it remains satisfactory.
4: The relative TSR comparator group is currently made up of the following 18 companies: AG Barr plc, Associated British Foods, C&C Group, Dairy Crest, Diageo, Fuller Smith & Turner, Glanbia, Greencore, Greene King, Marstons, Nichols, Origin Enterprises, Premier Foods, Reckitt Benckiser, SABMiller, Smith & Nephew, Tate and Lyle, Wetherspoon.
66 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Single total figure of Directors remuneration subject to audit Non-Executive Directors Details of the total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman for the year ended 28 September 2014 and 29 September 2013 are set out in the table below.
Additional details of each component are set out below the table.
The 2013 salary for the CEO relates to salary paid following Simon Litherlands appointment in February 2013. ii Benefits - Corresponds to the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the year Benefits comprise car allowance, private medical assurance, life assurance, free and matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
For 2013, Simon Litherland became eligible for a payment of 20,000 in September 2013 as per his employment terms as MD GB prior to his appointment as CEO.
This payment was made in November 2013 following approval by the Committee and is included in the single figure above.
iii Annual bonus - Corresponds to the total bonus earned under the bonus plan in respect of 2014 performance Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued 67 iii Annual bonus continued The table below sets out the bonus outcome for each Executive and the respective performance targets and performance against these.
2014 maximum 2014 bonus 2014 bonus Weighting bonus opportunity earned earned % of Performance % of salary 000 % of salary Performance bonus required for Actual measure maximum target payout performance CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO PBT 50% 128.5m 132.9m 70% 60% 323 180 59% 51% Revenue 20% 1,397.0m 1,359.7m 28% 24% 0 0 0% 0% Free cash flow 30% 82.0m 88.9m 42% 36% 229 128 42% 36% Total 100% 140% 120% 552 308 101% 87% iv Long-term incentives Vesting outcome and estimated value of the ESOP and PSP with three year performance periods ending on 28 September 2014.
Level of award Total Performance vesting value of conditions and Maximum % of vesting Number ESOP targets set potential value Performance outcome maximum 000 of shares Simon Threshold vesting for EPS growth Litherland of RPI 3% p. a.
Maximum vesting for EPS growth 200% of salary 69.0% 415.2 120,692 EPS growth in excess of RPI 7% p. a. of RPI of 5.4% p. a. was Vesting is on a straight line basis achieved between threshold and maximum.
Exercise price for the options is John Gibney 250% of salary 69.0% 570.9 165,946 331.6 pence.
Total Performance Level value of conditions and Maximum Performance of award vesting Number PSP targets set potential value outcome vesting 000 of shares Relative TSR 50% weighting : Britvics TSR was Simon Threshold payout for raking at positioned above upper Litherland median vs the comparator group quartile vs the comparator of 18 companies and maximum group resulting in a vesting payout for ranking at or above the of 50%.
3 year average ROIC of ROIC 50% weighting : Threshold 20.7% p. a. was achieved payout for total ROIC of 21.5% resulting in 0% of the total over the three year performance award vesting.
period and maximum payout for Rolled up dividends earned ROIC of 22.3% over the period are included Vesting is on a straight line basis within the total value of the John Gibney 100% of salary 50% 353.0 52,221 between threshold and maximum.
Note 1: The combined PSP and ESOP vesting values were estimated at 672,000 for Simon Litherland and 923,900 for John Gibney.
2: A share price estimate of 676.0p was used to calculate the value of the above awards which is based on the average share price over the last quarter of the financial year.
3: The relative TSR comparator group is made up of the following 18 companies: AG Barr plc, Associated British Foods, C&C Group, Dairy Crest, Diageo, Fuller Smith & Turner, Glanbia, Greencore, Greene King, Marstons, Nichols, Origin Enterprises, Premier Foods, Reckitt Benckiser, SABMiller, Smith & Nephew, Tate and Lyle, Wetherspoon.
4: Threshold vesting is set at 25% of maximum.
68 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Total pension entitlements subject to audit The table below sets out the value of the cash allowance paid to Directors for the year under review and the increase in value of the accrued pension.
Value of cash allowance Value of pension accrued Total value of pension for paid during year to during the year to year ending 28 September 2014 28 September 2014 28 September 2014 shown in Total Single Figure table.
000 000 000 Simon Litherland 139.5 Nil 139.5 John Gibney 80.9 Nil 80.9 Simon Litherlands and John Gibneys normal retirement age is 60.
John Gibney continues to have a deferred pension in the defined benefit section of the Plan and also the Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS, the companys unfunded retirement benefits scheme.
Both the Plan and BETUS are closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011.
The total accrued pension and transfer value in the combined Plan and BETUS are 202,300 p. a. and 4.26m respectively, as at 28 September 2014.
They have been calculated based on entitlements accrued to 10 April 2011 but using market conditions at 28 September 2014.
These figures also include increases to accrued pension since the date of leaving defined benefit service for this member, as required under the rules of the Plan and BETUS.
The aim of these increases is to increase the benefits in line with price inflation between the date of leaving pensionable service in the Plan and BETUS and the date when benefits are drawn.
The increase due on the 1 October 2014 has been included in the above figures.
In line with all members of the defined benefits section of the Plan, John Gibney may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which allows the Plan members to retire within five years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their pension.
The company has given notice to all of the Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016.
Where a BETUS member is retiring, the Committee may consider offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to the member at the point of retirement to reduce the companys balance sheet exposure to the BETUS liability.
The cash allowance payable to the executives: Reflects contributions the company would have made to the defined contribution section of the Plan had these individuals elected to join, less a deduction to ensure the cash allowance is cost neutral to the company from a National Insurance perspective.
Is paid at a rate of 24.6% of pensionable pay base salary only for the CEO and 22.0% of pensionable pay base salary only to the CFO.
Outside appointments Simon Litherland is a Director of The British Soft Drinks Association.
John Gibney is a Director of Interactive Screen Media Limited.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued 69 Scheme interests awarded during the year subject to audit The following tables set out the ESOP and PSP awards granted to Executive Directors under the LTIP during the year under review 2013 14.
All awards are subject to performance conditions: Award at threshold vesting, 25% Face value Performance conditions of maximum Maximum of awards ESOP and targets set % salary potential value 000 Performance period Threshold vesting for EPS growth of RPI 3% p. a. Simon Maximum vesting for EPS growth of 75% 300% of salary 1,680 Litherland RPI 7% p. a.
3 years commencing 29th September 2013 Vesting is on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
Exercise price for the options is John Gibney 62.5% 250% of salary 900 664.5pence.
Award at threshold vesting, 25% Face value Performance conditions of maximum Maximum of awards PSP and targets set % salary potential value 000 Performance period Relative TSR 50% weighting : Threshold payout for raking at median vs the comparator group of 18 companies and maximum payout for ranking at or above the upper Simon quartile.
25% 100% of salary 560 Litherland 3 years commencing 29th ROIC 50% weighting : Threshold September 2013 payout for total ROIC of 21.5% over the three year performance period and maximum payout for ROIC of 22.3%.
Vesting is on a straight line basis John Gibney 25% 100% of salary 360 between threshold and maximum.
Note 1: The share price used to determine the award levels for the PSP and ESOP was 664.5p 2: The relative TSR comparator group is made up of the following 18 companies: AG Barr plc, Associated British Foods, C&C Group, Dairy Crest, Diageo, Fuller Smith & Turner, Glanbia, Greencore, Greene King, Marstons, Nichols, Origin Enterprises, Premier Foods, Reckitt Benckiser, SABMiller, Smith & Nephew, Tate and Lyle, Wetherspoon.
70 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Directors shareholding requirements and interests in shares subject to audit The table below sets out the shareholding and requirements as at 28 September 2014.
A shareholding requirement of 100% of salary has applied to the CEO and CFO.
The CEO was appointed to role in February 2013 and therefore currently has a shareholding of 40% of salary.
As such he may not sell any vested shares from the company LTIPs except to settle taxes and the payment of exercise prices until the shareholding requirement has been satisfied.
The CFO has a shareholding in the company of 472% which is in excess of the requirement.
Provided the new Remuneration Policy is approved at the January 2015 AGM, the CEOs shareholding requirement for the 2014 15 year and beyond will be 200% of base salary.
Interest in shares in the Company as at 28 September 2014 Performance Ordinary shares shares Share options Subject to Subject to performance performance Vested but Exercised in 1 Total shares % of salary conditions conditions unexercised the period Simon Litherland 32,592 40% 266,009 763,045 - - John Gibney 244,636 472% 228,817 572,046 284,879 405,746 Gerald Corbett 53,695 - - - - - Joanne Averiss 14,696 - - - - - Ben Gordon 11,393 - - - - - Bob Ivell 10,870 - - - - - Ian McHoul 10,000 - - - - - Silvia Lagnado - - - - - - 1.
Based on 12 month average share price of 694.47p and 100% of salary as at 28 September 2014.
In the period 29 September to 25 November 2014 there has been no change in the directors interests above other than through the monthly purchases in October and November partnership and matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Britvic plc and the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the five year period ended 28 September 2014.
The table overleaf shows total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period.
Britvics Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 FTSE 250 Excluding Investment Trusts Britvic 250 200 150 100 50 0 27 Sept 2009 03 Oct 2010 02 Oct 2011 30 Sept 2012 29 Sept 2013 28 Sept 2014 Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Annual report on remuneration continued 71 The committee considers the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trust Index is a relevant index for total shareholder return as it represents a broad equity index in which the company is a constituent member.
Remuneration history for Chief Executive from 2010 to 2014 000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Simon Litherland total single figure of remuneration n a n a n a 1,114.6 1,930.8 Paul Moody total single figure of remuneration 1,955.3 1,819.7 670.1 1,412.6 n a Bonus % of maximum 95% 0% 0% 98.6% 72.2% for Simon Litherland 0% for Paul Moody LTIP % of maximum 100% 89.6% 0% 0% for 63.6% ESOP 100% ESOP 86% ESOP 0% Paul Moody ESOP 69.0% PSP 100% PSP 91% PSP 0% ESOP 0% PSP 50% PSP 0% n a for Simon Litherland Percentage change in remuneration for CEO The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components for all full-time equivalent employees based in Great Britain GB.
The GB employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the CEO is based in GB albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Chief Executive GB Employees Element % increase % increase Base salary 3.6% 3.5% Taxable benefits 22.6% 5.1% Bonus 21.6 % 13.4 % Relative importance of spend on pay The following chart sets out this information as it applies to the company, comparing figures for the year under review and the previous year.
Profit after tax and capital expenditure are also shown below for context.
For the purposes of this table capital expenditure is defined as net cash flow from the purchase and sale of both tangible and intangible assets: Distribution statement % change 64.2% FY14 57.3m FY13 34.9m % change 20.9% FY14 99.9m FY13 82.6m % change 10.1% FY14 46.8m FY13 42.5m % change 0.8% FY14 120.4m FY13 119.4m Note 1: The profit after tax is before the deduction of exceptional and other items.
Salary Dividend Profit Capex 1 roll payout after tax 72 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Statement of voting outcomes at general meeting The table below sets out the votes received for the Directors Remuneration Report at the AGM in 2014.
Directors Remuneration Report Votes for Votes against Withheld 2013 174,219,763 9,661,732 8,809,241 90.41% 5.01% 4.57% Payments made to past Directors subject to audit No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
Payments made for loss of office subject to audit No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
Directors contracts Details of the Executives service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out below.
All directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the AGM up until the start of the meeting.
Effective date Unexpired term Directors of contract approx.
months Simon Litherland 14 February 2013 12 John Gibney 14 December 2005 12 Gerald Corbett 14 December 2014 36 Joanne Averiss 14 December 2014 36 Ben Gordon 14 April 2014 28 Bob Ivell 14 December 2014 36 Michael Shallow 14 December 2011 - Ian McHoul 10 March 2014 30 Silvia Lagnado 2 June 2014 33 Executive Directors contracts operate on a 12 month rolling basis.
Michael Shallow stepped down from the board on 1 July 2014 and Ian McHoul and Silvia Lagnado were appointed to the board on the 10 March 2014 and 2 June 2014, respectively.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment have been extended for a further three year term to 14 December 2017 with the exception of Ben Gordon whose letter of appointment has been extended to 14 April 2017.
On behalf of the board Bob Ivell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information 73 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable working out
