Remuneration report Remuneration report continued achieved over time and be designed in a or if the director is considered to be a good Other remuneration way that does not reward failure.
Severance leaver as determined by the remuneration structures payments for PRA Code staff individuals committee but would, for example, include retirement with a minimum of 10 years shall be subject to approval by the DLC service, disability or ill health the director Guaranteed variable .
would be entitled to these awards, either remuneration Discretionary extended pension in full immediately or on the scheduled Guaranteed variable remuneration release date dependent on circumstances benefi ts policy comprises all forms of remuneration whose arising at such time and as agreed by the All proposed extended pension payments value can be determined prior to award.
In the event of made to employees upon reaching This includes, but is not limited to sign-on, a takeover or other major corporate event, buy-out and guarantee awards.
Guaranteed retirement should be reviewed by the the remuneration committee has discretion remuneration committee for alignment with variable awards will not be awarded, paid or to determine whether all outstanding provided to any individual within the group appropriate laws, policy and regulation.
awards would vest early or whether they unless they are: should continue in the same or revised form following the corporate event.
Exceptional Remuneration policy for Executive directors are permitted to accept In the context of hiring new staff executive directors outside appointments on external boards or committees, provided these are not Limited to the fi first year of service.
This section sets out our remuneration deemed to interfere with the business of the policy for executive directors.
The remuneration committee at least company.
Any fees earned by executives in annually reviews guaranteed variable this regard are forfeited to Investec.
Service contracts and terms remuneration payments and the number There is no formal requirement for of guarantees awarded and approves ofemployment executive directors to hold shares.
Three out of our four executive directors remuneration philosophy does, however, namely Stephen Koseff, Bernard Kantor include long-term equity participation via Retention awards and Glynn Burger have indefi nite contracts share awards refer to pages 143 and 144.
Investec only pays retention awards to of employment, terminable by either party The chief executive, managing director and serving staff in exceptional circumstances.
giving six months written notice to the group risk and fi finance director are among In all such cases, human resources shall other.
The contracts of employment do the founding members of the organisation review proposed payments to ensure not contain provisions for compensation and have built up signifi cant shareholdings that they are in line with this policy and payable on early termination.
Additionally du Toit has an indefi nite contract of for PRA Code staff, the remuneration Copies of the service contracts and letters employment, terminable by either party of appointment are available for inspection committee shall review all proposed giving three months written notice to the at the companys registered offi ce.
Circumstances where the group other.
The contract of employment does will consider paying a retention award not contain provisions for compensation Approach to recruitment of are in the case of a major restructuring payable on early termination.
of the company or any subsidiary or one new executive directors Each executive director is entitled to receive of its business units for instance in the It is intended that the approach to annually gross remuneration comprising a start-up of a new business line, or the the recruitment of new executive salary and other benefi ts and is also eligible closure of a business line, where the directors will be in line with the current for an annual bonus, the amount of which retention of individuals is essential to the remuneration policy for executive will be determined by the remuneration completion of the task.
A valid business directors as outlined above and below.
committee based on the approved case for the retention of the individual However, the remuneration committee executive short-term incentive scheme.
must be presented in order for a retention will consider market factors and other Furthermore, the executive directors may award to be approved and the PRA relevant comparator trends that may apply elect to sacrifi ce a portion of their annual 04 should be notifi ed prior to the retention at the time which may result in certain gross remuneration to receive company award being made to PRA Code staff, and amendments being made.
benefi ts such as a travel allowance and should consider seeking guidance on the medical aid.
The full costs of these benefi ts appropriateness of retention awards for are deducted from their gross remuneration certain individuals.
with the residual then being in effect their basic salary.
Severance awards Severance payments by Investec plc Outstanding EVA shares arising from or one of its subsidiary companies for deferred bonuses would lapse if the the early termination of a contract are executive director leaves by reason at executive managements absolute of resignation or termination for gross discretion and must refl ect performance misconduct.
However, in the case of death 138 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued A summary of the remuneration arrangements for executive directors as they apply to the 2014 1 fi financial year is shown in the table below Element of Maximum value and performance remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation targets Changes from prior year Salary and To provide an industry Salaries and benefi ts of Targeted at median market levels None benefi ts competitive package so that we executive directors are reviewed when compared to relevant 2 are able to recruit and retain the and set annually by the comparator groups in order to people that we need to develop remuneration committee contain fi xed costs our business Salaries and benefi ts are Annual increases in salaries Salaries and benefi ts refl ect the benchmarked against relevant and benefi ts are referenced to 2 relative skills and experience of, comparator groups the average increase awarded and contribution made by, the to other employees, unless the Executive directors participate individual remuneration committee deems in defi ned contribution pension adjustments to be made relating Benefi ts include: pension schemes to market factors schemes: life, disability and Only salaries, not annual personal accident insurance: bonuses, are pensionable medical cover: and other benefi ts, as dictated by competitive local market practices Variable shortClear link between performance Not pensionable Subject to the following fi financial The arrangements discussed term incentive and remuneration and non-fi financial targets: here were approved by Formulaic approach that annual bonus shareholders at the July 2013 Embeds alignment with includes a balanced set of Financial metrics: general meeting shareholder returns and rewards fi financial and non-fi financial 85% weighting performance that meets stretch performance measures with This is the fi first year of operation including return on risk targets, but poor performance achievement levels that of this incentive plan weighted assets, return leads to reduced awards correspond with our short-term Minor changes to be made for on equity, tier1 capital objectives Deferral structure provides the 2015 fi financial year as a adequacy, liquidity coverage further alignment with Establishment of a short-term result of CRD IV refer to pages ratio and net stable funding shareholders incentive pool amounting to 146 to 148 ratio 1.45% of the groups adjusted Non-fi financial metrics: 3 operating profi t 15% weighting If target performance conditions including culture achieved, distribution will be as and values: franchise follows: 0.5% to CEO: 0.5% to development: governance MD: and 0.45% to group risk 4 and regulatory and and fi finance director shareholder relationships Introduces an element of and employee relationship leverage both up and down and development based on actual performance The total maximum pool for the Achievement levels for each CEO, MD and group risk and fi financial metric which determines fi finance director if all fi financial threshold, target and stretch and non-fi financial stretch levels performance are set annually by are achieved would be 180% the remuneration committee of adjusted operating profi t x 04 Receive 20% in cash 1.45% immediately: 20% deferred in Further information is available shares which vest immediately, on pages 141 to 143 but subject to a six-month retention: the remaining 60% is deferred in shares over three years with a further six-month retention period for each vesting Remuneration committee still retains discretion so that incentives truly refl ect performance and are not distorted by an unintended formulaic outcome Malus and clawback of deferred shares are applicable Investec integrated annual report 2014 139 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Element of Maximum value and performance remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation targets Changes from prior year Long-term Clear link between performance Applies to the CEO, MD and At grant face value: approximately The arrangements discussed 5 incentive and remuneration group risk and fi finance director 230% of fi xed gross remuneration here were approved at the awards salary and benefi ts other than July2013 general meeting Embeds alignment with Formulaic approach that includes in the fi first year of operation, with shareholder returns and rewards a balanced set of fi financial and This is the fi first year of operation awards to be made annually performance that meets stretch non-fi financial performance of this incentive plan targets, but poor performance measures with achievement Subject to the following fi financial In order to comply with CRDIV, leads to reduced awards levels that correspond with our and non-fi financial targets: this plan will be replaced by long-term strategy a fi xed allowance payable in Financial metrics: Introduces an element of shares: effective for the 2015 75% weighting leverage both up and down fi financial year refer to includes growth in tangible based on actual performance pages 146 to 148 net asset value and return on risk weighted assets Achievement levels for each fi financial metric which determines Non-fi financial metrics: threshold, target and stretch 25% weighting performance are set annually by includes culture and values: the remuneration committee franchise development: Long-term incentives vest governance and regulatory 75% after four years and 25% and shareholder relationships after fi five years each subject to and employee relationship a further six-month retention and development period, provided performance If stretch achievement levels conditions are met for both the fi financial and nonMalus and clawback of unvested fi financial metrics are achieved, rewards are applicable the number of shares vesting will increase to a maximum of 135% Remuneration committee of the number of shares awarded still retains discretion so at the time of grant that incentives truly refl ect performance and are not Further information is available on distorted by an unintended pages 143 and 144 formulaic outcome Notes to the table above: 1 Notwithstanding that Hendrik du Toit is currently a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited, he does not perform Investec group-wide executive activities.
Accordingly, Hendrik du Toit and any remuneration benefi ts due to him are subject to the remuneration policies, rules and regulations applicable to employees of Investec Asset Management and not the remuneration policies, rules and regulations applicable to other entities within the Investec group.
2 Peer group companies include Aberdeen Asset Management, Barclays Africa Group, Alliance Bernstein, Close Brothers Group, FirstRand, Invesco, Jefferies, Julius Baer, Macquarie Group, Man Group, Nedbank Group, Rathbone Brothers, Schroders, Standard Bank Group and Tullett Prebon.
3 Defi ned as operating profi t before taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items and after non-controlling interests.
4 Hendrik du Toit is not defi ned as UK PRA Code staff and is entitled to an annual bonus as determined with respect to the performance of Investec Asset Management only as explained in note 1 above.
5 Hendrik du Toit will no longer receive long-term incentive awards as he is a participant in the Investec Asset Management equity ownership scheme as explained on page 135.
Performance measures: The short-term and long-term incentives are subject to performance conditions.
A detailed explanation of these performance measures is provided on pages 141 to 144.
The performance measures have been selected taking into account: Key stakeholders requirements including shareholders and regulators which were assessed through extensive consultations on thematter The preference of the remuneration committee and the board for a range of fi financial metrics that ensure an appropriate balance 04 between measures which drive profi tability and prudential measures.
In addition, the remuneration committee believes that it is right to include non-fi financial measures in determining levels of awards as directors should be incentivised to attend to important matters on which the long-term performance of the company depends, but which cannot in any one performance period be directly linked to fi financial returns.
Changes to the remuneration policy from that operating in 2013: These changes are highlighted in the table above and largely relate to changes implemented post-extensive consultation with shareholders, who required greater transparency in our remuneration arrangements as mentioned previously.
Differences between the remuneration policy of the executive directors and the policy for all employees: Our remuneration principles and philosophies as explained on pages 130 and 131 also apply when considering executive directors remuneration.
Thequantum of salary and benefi ts paid to executive directors is benchmarked against appropriate comparator groups as discussed on page 141, however, the annual increase in such remuneration is referenced to the average increase awarded to employees in South Africa and the UK, respectively.
Although this has not been the case of late, the remuneration committee may under certain circumstances make adjustments outside of these parameters, particularly in cases when there have been large adjustments in the comparator group referenced.
As is the case with other employees, the short-term incentive is performance based, however, there are a number of specifi c performance criteria that apply in the case of determining the annual bonus for the chief executive, managing director and group risk and fi finance director as set out below.
The annual bonus for Hendrik du Toit head of Investec Asset Management and executive director of the Investec group is referenced to the performance of Investec Asset Management only as explained in note 1 above.
Short-term incentives for executive directors and the employees, defi ned as PRA Code staff, are subject to deferral and malus requirements and for executive directors who are PRA Code staff clawback also applies.
The requirements of CRD IV are only applicable to the chief executive, managing director and group risk and fi finance director and to a number of employees in the UK Specialist Bank.
140 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The short-term incentive allocated to more compatible with international reward Further details on the executive the chief executive and pool was arrived levels than South African reward levels.
directors short-term incentive at after extensive benchmarking over The committee believes this is appropriate, plan in operation for the year a fi five-year period against short-term given the complexity of Investec and the ended 31 March 2014 incentives of: i chief executive offi cers, challenges involved in managing a group The current short-term incentive pool and ii groups of executive directors for a operating across three sectors in three available for the chief executive, managing bespoke peer group and sub-groups of core geographies.
The pool is decreased director and group risk and fi finance director South African and non-South African peers or increased by a performance multiplier amounts to 1.45% of the groups adjusted comprising: Aberdeen Asset Management, comprising weightings and achievement operating profi t, defi ned as operating BarclaysAfrica Group, Alliance Bernstein, scores within score ranges for the fi financial profi t before taxation, goodwill, acquired Close Brothers Group, FirstRand, Invesco, and non-fi financial performance measures intangibles and non-operating items Jefferies, Julius Baer, Macquarie Group, described in the table below.
The total and after non-controlling interests.
If the Man Group, Nedbank Group, Rathbone maximum pool, if all fi financial and nonthreshold performance conditions are Brothers, Schroders, Standard Bank Group fi financial stretch levels are achieved, achieved, distribution of the pool will be as and Tullett Prebon.
The levels of chief would be 180% of adjusted operating follows: 0.5% to the chief executive, 0.5% executive profi t share and the pool are profi tx1.45%.
to the managing director and 0.45% to the risk and fi finance director.
Achievement Performance conditions Weighting Score range levels Financial metrics 85% 0% 200% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 200% Non-fi financial metrics 15% 0% 200% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 200% Each fi financial and non-fi financial metric has set threshold levels below which no short-term incentive will be earned and stretch levels whereby the pool for short-term incentives earned will be increased but to a level capped as a percentage of adjusted operating profi t. The committee believes that these stretch levels are demanding and will result in a variable pool which will refl ect actual performance and align the interests of the executive directors with the interests of shareholders.
Achievement levels for the short-term incentive will be reviewed and set annually by the committee.
Executive short-term incentive fi financial metrics and weightings The weightings for each fi financial metric are as follows: Financial metric Weighting Aggregate 85% 1 Return on risk-weighted assets 35% 60% attributable to 2 } profi tability measures Return on equity 25% 3 Tier 1 capital adequacy 12.5% 25% attributable to 4 Liquidity cover ratio 6.25% } 04 prudential measures 4 Net stable funding ratio 6.25% 1 Return on risk-weighted assets is defi ned as adjusted earnings average risk-weighted assets, where adjusted earnings are earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders after taxation, non-controlling interests and preference dividends, but before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items.
2 Return on equity is defi ned as adjusted earnings average ordinary shareholders equity excluding preference share capital.
3 Tier 1 capital adequacy condition is a blend of the underlying tier 1 capital adequacy ratios for Investec plc and Investec Limited 50% plc: 50% Limited.
4 The liquidity metrics liquidity cover ratio and net stable funding ratio are a blend of the underlying liquidity metrics weighted by region 50% South Africa: 40% UK: 10% Australia.
The fi financial metrics are designed to ensure an appropriate balance between measures which drive profi tability return on risk-weighted assets and return on equity which comprise 60% of the total weighting of 85% and prudential measures tier 1 capital adequacy ratios, liquidity cover ratios and the net stable funding ratio which comprise 25% of the total weighting of 85%.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 141 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The committee considers it particularly important that the incentive scheme: i balances Stretch achievement levels for return on driving return on equity 25% weighting with managing capital and liquidity 25% weighting : risk-weighted assets and return on equity and ii sets achievement levels which are an objective refl ection of risk appetite given the are considered to be demanding: perceived economic and market conditions.
The groups adjusted earnings for the Executive short-term incentive fi financial metrics: achievement levels for the year year ended 31 March 2014 amounted ended 31 March 2014 to328 million Achievement levels for each of the fi financial metrics, as described above, which determine In order to achieve the stretch threshold, target and stretch performance are set annually by the committee, following a achievement level for the return on careful and detailed review of relevant economic and market conditions.
The threshold, risk-weighted assets metric, the groups target and stretch performance levels for the fi financial metrics set by the committee for the adjusted earnings for the year ended year ended 31 March 2014 are set out below.
Achievement levels are shown on page 153.
31 March 2014 would have needed to be 42% larger at 466 million Weighting Achievement levels ceterisparibus Financial metric 85% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 200% In order to achieve the stretch Return on achievement level for the return on risk-weighted assets 35% 0.9% 1.2% 1.6% equity metric, the groups adjusted Return on equity 25% 9% 12% 15% earnings for the year ended Tier 1 capital adequacy 12.5% 9.5% 10.5% 12% 31March2014 would have needed tobe 53% larger at 502 million Liquidity cover ratio 6.25% 115% 132.5% 162.5% ceterisparibus.
Net stable funding ratio 6.25% 82% 89.5% 99.5% The liquidity metrics liquidity cover ratio and net stable funding ratio are a blend of the underlying liquidity metrics weighted by region 50% South Africa: 40% UK: 10% Australia as set out below: Measure South Africa UK Australia Geographical weighting 50% 40% 10% Liquidity cover ratio Threshold 55% 150% 150% Target 65% 175% 175% Stretch 75% 225% 225% Net stable funding ratio Threshold 65% 95% 90% Target 75% 100% 95% Stretch 85% 110% 105% Executive short-term incentive non-fi financial metrics: achievement levels for the year ended 31 March 2014 The committee believes that it is right to incentivise executive directors to attend to important matters on which the long-term performance of the company depends, but which cannot in any one performance period be directly linked to fi financial returns.
The executive directors have a low level of fi xed gross remuneration relative to their peers.
Therefore, without a meaningful weighting and target score for nonfi financial metrics the executives would not be rewarded in any signifi cant way for activities which the committee and the board regard as essential to the reputation, risk profi le, capability and overall long-term sustainability of the company.
The committee considers that 04 both the shortand long-term incentive schemes should properly refl ect the boards view of the proper balance of responsibilities for the executive directors.
The areas of focus, weightings and objectives for the non-fi financial metrics will be set by the committee annually and assessed on a four-point scale.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, these are as follows: Performance conditions Weighting Achievement levels Non-fi financial metrics 15% 0% 50% 100% 150% 200% Culture and values 3.75% 01234 Franchise development 3.75% 01234 Governance and regulatory and shareholder relationships 3.75% 01234 Employee relationship and developments 3.75% 01234 142 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The committee set the following areas Governance and regulatory and Timing of payments of focus in respect of the non-fi financial shareholder relationships The executive directors will receive 20% performance conditions for the year ended Maintaining open and transparent of the short-term incentive immediately 31 March 2014: relations with regulators in cash and 20% of the incentive will be deferred in shares which vest immediately Regulators should have confi dence Culture and values but are subject to a six-month retention that the fi rm is being properly Management visible and proactive in period.
The remaining 60% will be deferred governed and managed demonstrating appropriate behaviour in shares with 20% vesting after each of the Shareholders should have Performance-driven, transparent and fi first, second and third year, each subject confi dence that the fi rm is being risk-conscious organisation to a six-month retention period.
Malus and properly managed clawback of deferred shares are applicable.
Delivering appropriate and sustainable products with high levels Employee relationship and development Further details on the executive of service and responsiveness Succession and the development of directors long-term incentive Acting with integrity, supporting the next generation plan in operation for the year community, developing people and Diversity and black economic ended 31 March 2014 maintaining good relations with key empowerment initiatives and results stakeholders The vesting of awards for the executive Continued development of people directors will be conditional on performance Continual monitoring of the culture of both on the job and extramurally.
weighted as to fi financial and non-fi financial the group The committee assesses achievement performance and measured against Franchise development prescribed achievement levels.
against objectives for the non-fi financial Quality of brand, development of client metrics on a four-point scale and score The number of shares awarded will be base, commitment to the community 0 0% and 4 200% only in exceptional decreased or increased by a performance and progress in building the fi rm circumstances with the typical score range multiplier comprising weightings and being 1 50%, 2 100% or 3 150%.
Further Environmental and other achievement scores within score ranges information is provided on page 153. sustainability issues for the fi financial and non-fi financial metrics, asfollows: Performance conditions Weighting Score range Achievement levels Financial metrics 75% 0 150% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 150% Non-fi financial metrics 25% 0 200% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 200% The number of shares which vest against both the fi financial and non-fi financial performance conditions depend on whether threshold 0%, target 100% or stretch 150% levels are achieved, with awards vesting on a linear basis between each level.
If the stretch achievement levels for both the fi financial and non-fi financial metrics are satisfi ed, the number of shares vesting will be increased to a maximum of 135% of the number of shares awarded at the time of grant.
Executive long-term incentive fi financial metrics: achievement levels for the year ended 31 March 2014 The achievement levels for each fi financial metric which determine threshold, target and stretch performance for the three-year performance 04 period applicable to each annual award will be set annually by the committee in advance of the award being made after a careful review of relevant economic and market conditions.
The weightings for each of the fi financial metrics are expected to remain constant going forward.
Threshold, target and stretch achievement levels for the fi financial metrics confi rmed by the committee for the September 2013 award were as follows: Performance conditions Weighting Achievement levels Financial metrics 75% Threshold 0% Target 100% Stretch 150% 1 Growth in tangible net asset value 40% 15% 30% 45% 2 Return on risk-weighted assets 35% 0.7% 1.2% 1.6% 1 The growth in tangible net asset value is expressed per share based on neutral currency and after adding back dividends and will be measured over the three fi financial years preceding the fi first date of vesting.
2 Return on risk-weighted assets is defi ned as adjusted earnings average risk-weighted assets, where adjusted earnings are earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders after taxation, non-controlling interests and preference dividends, but before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items, and will be measured over the three fi financial years preceding the fi first date of vesting by averaging the actual return on risk-weighted assets achieved for each of those three fi financial years.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 143 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The awards will be tested over the three fi financial years preceding the fi first date of vesting against the achievement levels set on grant as set out above for the 2013 award and the number of shares to be received will be determined by reference to the combined total which has been achieved.
Executive long-term incentive non-fi financial metrics: achievement levels for the year ended 31March2014 The non-fi financial metrics and associated objectives for the three-year performance period applicable to each annual award will be set annually by the committee in advance of the award being made taking into account the groups strategic and operational objectives.
Thenon-fi financial metrics in respect of the September 2013 award were as follows: Performance conditions Weighting Achievement levels Non-fi financial metrics 25% 0% 50% 100% 150% 200% Culture and values 4% 0 1 2 3 4 Franchise development 13% 0 1 2 3 4 Governance and regulatory and shareholder relationships 4% 0 1 2 3 4 Employee relationship and development 4% 0 1 2 3 4 The committee assesses achievement Illustrative scenarios both fi financial and non-fi financial metrics against objectives for the non-fi financial for executive directors related to the holistic performance of metrics on a four-point scale and remuneration the Investec group and shareholder score0 0% and 4 200% only in value creation.
The maximum pool The charts on page 145 show the potential exceptional circumstances with the typical for each of the chief executive and value of the executive directors 2014 score range being 1 50%, 2 100% or managing director if all fi financial and remuneration arrangements in three 3 150%.
non-fi financial metrics are achieved scenarios: Minimum i. e. fi xed pay : would be 180% of adjusted operating The committee has set the same areas Attarget i. e. fi xed pay and the at target of focus in respect of the non-fi financial profi t times by 0.5%.
Financial and variable pay and long-term incentives that non-fi financial metrics are set out on performance conditions for awards made may be awarded : and At stretch i. e. fi xed during the year ended 31 March 2014 as pages 141 to 143.
Adjusted operating pay and the stretch achievement levels per the short-term incentive plan.
Refer to profi t used in the graphs below is that may be awarded for variable pay pages 142 and 143 for further detail.
based on 440.8million as reported at and long-term incentives.
The scenarios 31March2014 do not refl ect share price movement To the extent that the performance between award and potential vesting.
conditions have been met, the number Long-term incentive awards moderated The majority of the potential remuneration of shares awarded that will vest will be using both fi financial and non-fi financial of the executive directors is variable adjusted.
These shares will vest 75% at the metrics related to the holistic and subject to performance conditions end of four years and 25% at the end of fi five performance of the Investec group and beingmet.
years, subject in each case to a six-month shareholder value creation.
If stretch retention period, except to the extent achievement levels for both the fi financial As explained on pages 139 and 140 the necessary to discharge tax liabilities arising and non-fi financial metrics are achieved, current remuneration structure for the on vesting.
the number of shares vesting will chief executive and managing director increase to a maximum of 135% of the comprises: Timing of payments number of shares awarded at the time Fixed gross remuneration comprising a Vesting will be 75% after four years ofgrant.
The value attributed to the base salary and benefi ts and 25% after fi five years, each subject long-term incentive in the graph to a six-month retention period.
Malus opposite is based on the number of 04 A variable short-term annual incentive and clawback of unvested awards shares awarded i. e. 600 000 shares to based on 0.5% of adjusted operating areapplicable.
date multiplied by the share price at the profi t defi ned as operating profi t before time of grant i. e. 4.42.
Financial and taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles non-fi financial metrics are set out on and non-operating items and after nonpages 143 and 144. controlling interests moderated using 144 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued The remuneration structure for CEO and MD remuneration arrangements illustrative scenario HendrikduToit: 000 Notwithstanding that Hendrik du Toit is 9 000 currently a director of Investec plc and Investec Limited: he does not perform 7 997 8 000 Investec group-wide executive activities.
7 000 Accordingly, Hendrik du Toit and any 45% remuneration benefi ts due to him are 6 000 5 306 subject to the remuneration policies, rules 5 000 and regulations applicable to employees of Investec Asset Management and not 4 000 50% the remuneration policies, rules and 3 000 regulations applicable to other entities 50% within the Investec group.
In this regard his 2 000 42% remuneration structure comprises: Long-term incentive 1 000 450 Bonus Fixed gross remuneration comprising a 8% 5% 0 Salary and benefits gross base salary and benefi ts Minimum At target At stretch fixed remuneration A variable short-term annual incentive based on the performance of Investec As explained on pages 139 and 140 the current remuneration structure for the group risk Asset Management only, which is and fi finance director comprises: discretionary, but uncapped Fixed gross remuneration comprising a base salary and benefi ts Hendrik du Toit will no longer receive long-term incentive awards as he is A variable short-term annual incentive based on 0.45% of adjusted operating profi t a participant in the Investec Asset defi ned as operating profi t before taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles and nonManagement equity ownership scheme operating items and after non-controlling interests moderated using both fi financial as explained on page 135. and non-fi financial metrics related to the holistic performance of the Investec group and shareholder value creation.
The maximum pool for each of the chief executive and Shareholder views in the managing director if all fi financial and non-fi financial metrics are achieved would be 180% of adjusted operating profi t times by 0.45%.
Financial and non-fi financial metrics are set consideration of executive out on pages 141 to 143.
Adjusted operating profi t used in the graph below is based on directors remuneration 440.8 million as reported at 31 March 2014 arrangements Long-term incentive awards moderated using both fi financial and non-fi financial metrics We recognise that remuneration is an related to the holistic performance of the Investec group and shareholder value creation.
area of particular interest to shareholders If stretch achievement levels for both the fi financial and non-fi financial metrics are achieved, and shareholder representative bodies the number of shares vesting will increase to a maximum of 135% of the number of and as such the remuneration committee shares awarded at the time of grant.
The value attributed to the long-term incentive in and group chairmen have consulted on the graph below is based on the number of shares awarded i. e. 600 000 shares to date these issues each year for the past few multiplied by the share price at the time of grant i. e. 4.42.
Financial and non-fi financial years.
As already mentioned, shareholders metrics are set out on pages 143 and 144. requested greater transparency in our remuneration arrangements which Group risk and finance director remuneration culminated in the development of a new arrangements illustrative scenario shortand long-term incentive plan for the chief executive, managing director and 04 group risk and fi finance director.
These plans 000 were approved at the July2013 general 8 000 7 482 meeting.
In addition, we have consulted with shareholders and shareholder 7 000 representative bodies regarding the 6 000 impact of CRD IV on our remuneration 48% arrangements.
Shareholders are broadly 4 967 5 000 supportive of our proposals to meet these regulations.
The remuneration committee 4 000 53% and the board believe in effective and 3 000 transparent communication with key stakeholders and will continue to engage 2 000 48% on matters that may arise and are of 40% 1 000 Long-term incentive importance and or concern to stakeholders.
331 Bonus 7% 4% 0 Salary and benefits gross Minimum At target At stretch fixed remuneration Investec integrated annual report 2014 145 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Impact of CRD IV on remuneration arrangements CRD IV is EU regulation that has been effective from 1 January 2014.
As mentioned, CRD IV essentially focuses on the application of a cap on variable pay that can be paid to PRA Code staff including executive directors.
The remuneration committee is seeking approval for the maximum CRD IV pay ratio of 2:1.
The maximum ratio will apply to variable remuneration awarded in respect of the 2015 performance year awards.
Investec currently has 39 PRA Code staff which represents a very small proportion of total employees.
Approximately half of these employees excluding non-executive and executive directors are impacted by the two times cap on variable pay, but where they are we are introducing a fi xed monthly cash Code staff allowance and a commensurate reduction in the levels of variable remuneration.
Our approach for executive directors is highlighted below.
Impact of CRD IV on executive directors remuneration arrangements for the fi financial year ending2015 Background to our approach to CRD IV In terms of CRD IV variable pay performance bonus and discretionary LTIPs is capped at one times fi xed pay salary and all benefi ts.
This cap can be increased by shareholder resolution 66% approval required up to two times fi xed pay.
Up to 25% of variable pay can be discounted if deferred over at least fi five years which effectively results in a maximum cap of 2.25 times proposed in the remuneration plan.
Our current incentive arrangements introduced for the chief executive, managing director and group risk and fi finance director for the 2014 fi financial year as depicted on pages 139 and 140 essentially refl ect a ratio of variable pay to fi xed pay of approximately 6 times and as a result need to be amended as a result of CRD IV.
The new proposals will apply to the 31 March 2015 fi financial year, subject to shareholder approval at the August2014 annual general meeting.
The remuneration committee believed that the following principles were key in its restructuring of executive incentive arrangements forCRDIV: Variable pay should remain linked to performance and total compensation should remain competitive A rebalancing from historically variable pay to fi xed pay under the new regime is required Total remuneration should be reduced to refl ect greater certainty resulting from an increase in fi xed pay Share exposure over fi five years should be retained to ensure shareholder alignment.
Proposed amendments to comply with CRD IV The diagrams below illustrate the proposed amendments to the overall remuneration structure for the chief executive, managing director and group risk and fi finance director for the 2015 fi financial year.
Hendrik du Toits remuneration arrangements are not impacted by CRD IV asInvestec Asset Management is exempt from these requirements.
The main changes to our existing remuneration arrangements are summarised as follows: To cap the ratio of variable pay to fi xed pay at 2:1 To introduce a fi xed allowance payable in shares To decrease the short-term incentive sharing percentage of the profi t pool To discontinue the current long-term incentive plan To increase the deferral period of the short-term incentive To reduce the overall quantum of total remuneration payable to the three executive directors.
04 146 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Proposed amendments to the executive remuneration structure for the year ending 31 March 2015 Salary and short-term Deferral period Long-term incentive Total remuneration incentive Cash salary and related Extended from a maximum of Previous c. 300000 annual In exchange for increased benefi ts are to be increased three years to a maximum of allowance of long-term fi xed pay by an infl ationary percentage fi five years incentive plan shares, which Total remuneration for the is currently leveraged both up No change in fi financial and The incentive pool is split as CEO and MD is reduced 8% and down and conditional on non-fi financial metrics in follows: at target and 18% at stretch performance and service, is determining the short-term discontinued 75% short term of which Total remuneration for the incentive as discussed on 20% is paid in cash and group risk and fi finance pages 141 to 143 Replaced with a contractual the balance in shares director is reduced 9% at annual fi xed allowance of Short-term incentive pool for deferred over three years target and 18% at stretch 2 1million payable in shares CEO and MD reduced by and subject to a six- 10% from 0.50% to 0.45% month retention period Value of this fi xed allowance 1 of adjusted operating profi t is substantially less than 25% long term payable and the group risk and the value of the long-term in shares deferred over fi finance director incentive incentive plan award it four and fi five years 75% pool reduced from 0.45% to replaces vesting in year four and 0.40% of adjusted operating 25% vesting in year fi five 1 profi t and subject to a sixIn total the incentive pool month retention period.
is reduced from 1.45% of 1 adjusted operating profi t to 1.3% of adjusted operating 1 profi t The short-term incentive is still subject to deferral and malus and clawback arrangements 1 Defi ned as operating profi t before taxation, goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items and after non-controlling interests, and is then still moderated using performance conditions both fi financial and non-fi financial metrics as described on pages 141 to 143.
04 2 No performance conditions apply and award vests on grant but subject to retention over fi five years 75% after four years and 25% afterfi veyears.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 147 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Summary of proposed remuneration structure for the executive directors for the 2015 fi financial year preand post-CRD IV taking into account the proposals mentioned above Total Total Reduction remuneration remuneration in total 2015 CEO and MD pre-CRD IV post-CRD IV remuneration At target performance 3 926 000 3 608 000 8% At stretch performance 5 826 000 4 777 500 18% Total Total Reduction remuneration remuneration in total 2015 group risk and fi finance director pre-CRD IV post-CRD IV remuneration At target performance 3 538 189 3 219 189 9% At stretch performance 5 248 189 4 287 364 18% Includes the value of the long-term incentive calculated as 230% of gross remuneration, i. e. new awards would generally be made on this basis.
Gross remuneration is based on 470 000 for the CEO and MD and 320 000 for the group risk and fi finance director.
Theshort-term incentive is based on analyst forecasts for 31 March 2015 of 41p, which translates into pre-tax adjusted operating profi t of approximately 475 million, assuming a tax rate of 18% and 870 million shares in issue.
Non-fi financial factor achievement levels are assumed at 100%.
Same assumptions as note above except the long-term incentive award is discontinued and replaced with a fi xed allowance payable in shares of 1 000 000.
In addition, the cap on variable pay is applied.
The graph below illustrates the timing of payments for each component of total executive remuneration taking into account our proposals for compliance with CRD IV.
Fixed allowance annual award Cash only Award based on incentive pool portion Fixed gross remuneration Year 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 Incentive pool summary Fixed allowance awarded in shares summary 04 75% is short term Vests on award 20% in cash immediately Retention period 20% deferred in shares vesting immediately, but 75% after four years subject to a six-month retention period 25% after five years.
Balance deferred in shares over three years plus six-month retention 25% is long term, deferred over four and five years 75% vesting in year four and 25% vesting in year five Malus clawback of unvested awards applicable.
