Remuneration report Remuneration report employees in our Specialist Bank in the UK.
share schemes excluding schemes Annual statement from Fundamentally, the remuneration committee applicable to the executive directors and the chairman of the has ensured that its approach in complying PRA Code staff are not generally subject to with these regulations is in line with its performance conditions as their purpose board remuneration core remuneration philosophies and allows is to provide all staff with some alignment Investec to remain competitive in attracting with the interests of our owners.
Outside committee and retaining talent and ensuring the longof these schemes, we have many senior This remuneration report was prepared term success of the business.
We believe executives with signifi cant shareholdings by the remuneration committee and that our ability to diverge signifi cantly from refl ecting their long association with our approved by the board and describes market practice is limited by the exposure business.
The proportion of shares held our remuneration policy and directors to losing staff to rivals who will pay more.
by our employees is approximately 10%.
remuneration for the 2014 fi financial Further information on our intended Furthermore, for our executive directors year.
This report has been prepared in approach is provided below.
We are not and certain of our employees, a portion compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large proposing any other material changes to of variable remuneration is required to be and Medium-sized Companies and Groups our remuneration policy.
deferred and paid in shares.
Accounts and Reports Amendment The committee maintains oversight of Our distribution model Regulations 2013, and other related the remuneration policies and packages regulations.
We continue to acknowledge the of the executive directors, persons importance of the appropriate division of discharging managerial responsibilities, Overview of the year the returns generated by our business a number of other senior and high paid Following the need expressed by our between our owners, our workforce and employees across the group, while paying the societies in which we operate, the latter shareholders for greater transparency in specifi c attention to the rewards allocated remuneration arrangements at Investec, through corporate and personal taxation.
to employees within the internal audit, we embarked on a process during the compliance and risk divisions.
Our effective corporate tax rate has prior year to redesign the shortand averaged 22% over the past 10 years, long-term incentive schemes for the chief Core remuneration principles while our gross staff compensation ratio, executive, managing director and group risk remain effective i. e. comprising total fi xed costs, total and fi finance director.
We believe that we variable remuneration paid including the Our overarching remuneration philosophy developed a comprehensive and credible total deferred portion and share-based has remained unchanged from prior years response to shareholders concerns and costs as spread over the period of the as we retain focus on employing and after a period of shareholder consultation, share incentive option has averaged at retaining the highest calibre individuals we are pleased to report that the fi final 41% over the same period.
Personal tax through the payment of industry incentive scheme proposals and long-term deduction, payroll taxes and national competitive packages and long-term share incentive awards were approved at the insurance mean that a substantial portion awards which ensure alignment with key annual general meeting in August 2013. of the gross compensation is ultimately stakeholders in our business.
The short-term incentive awards made to paid to the tax authorities.
Our payments Our rewards continue to be distributed the chief executive, managing director and to shareholders remain within our stated from pools of realised earnings generated group risk and fi finance director during the dividend policies, and we have retained a in excess of targeted thresholds which 2014 fi financial year have been made portion of earnings each year to build up refl ect usage of risk-adjusted capital.
This in accordance with the newly approved capital resources.
economic value-added model has been in plan which clearly sets out the link between In summary, we estimate our total operation for about 15 years and ensures their pay and performance a detailed economic return has been divided between that risk and capital management form the assessment is provided on the main stakeholders, as follows: basis for key processes at both a group pages 141 to 143. and transaction level thus balancing the Governments through corporate, The remuneration committee directed rewards between all stakeholders.
personal and other taxation at 04 much of its time and efforts during the 2014 source28% We currently recognise the principles of fi financial year on the new remuneration both malus and clawback in respect of regulations under the Capital Requirements Employees through total compensation the chief executive, managing director Directive IV CRD IV, which essentially net of taxation at source 44% and group risk and fi finance director but focus on the application of a cap on only malus in respect of PRA Code staff variable pay that can be paid to Prudential Owners through dividends before and have considered the fi financial results Regulation Authority PRA Code staff as taxation at source 13%.
and governance reviews and regulatory defi ned in the rules.
These regulations have Our value added statement is actions to assess whether any such action presented us with some challenges and provided on page 9. is appropriate this year.
We have concluded will unfortunately require some changes that no such action is required.
in our recently approved remuneration policy for the chief executive, managing Staff ownership of shares remains a core director and group risk and fi finance director.
Our employee These regulations also impact some of our Investec integrated annual report 2014 127
