Remuneration report Remuneration report employees in our Specialist Bank in the UK.
share schemes excluding schemes Annual statement from Fundamentally, the remuneration committee applicable to the executive directors and the chairman of the has ensured that its approach in complying PRA Code staff are not generally subject to with these regulations is in line with its performance conditions as their purpose board remuneration core remuneration philosophies and allows is to provide all staff with some alignment Investec to remain competitive in attracting with the interests of our owners.
Outside committee and retaining talent and ensuring the longof these schemes, we have many senior This remuneration report was prepared term success of the business.
We believe executives with signifi cant shareholdings by the remuneration committee and that our ability to diverge signifi cantly from refl ecting their long association with our approved by the board and describes market practice is limited by the exposure business.
The proportion of shares held our remuneration policy and directors to losing staff to rivals who will pay more.
by our employees is approximately 10%.
remuneration for the 2014 fi financial Further information on our intended Furthermore, for our executive directors year.
This report has been prepared in approach is provided below.
We are not and certain of our employees, a portion compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large proposing any other material changes to of variable remuneration is required to be and Medium-sized Companies and Groups our remuneration policy.
deferred and paid in shares.
Accounts and Reports Amendment The committee maintains oversight of Our distribution model Regulations 2013, and other related the remuneration policies and packages regulations.
We continue to acknowledge the of the executive directors, persons importance of the appropriate division of discharging managerial responsibilities, Overview of the year the returns generated by our business a number of other senior and high paid Following the need expressed by our between our owners, our workforce and employees across the group, while paying the societies in which we operate, the latter shareholders for greater transparency in specifi c attention to the rewards allocated remuneration arrangements at Investec, through corporate and personal taxation.
to employees within the internal audit, we embarked on a process during the compliance and risk divisions.
Our effective corporate tax rate has prior year to redesign the shortand averaged 22% over the past 10 years, long-term incentive schemes for the chief Core remuneration principles while our gross staff compensation ratio, executive, managing director and group risk remain effective i. e. comprising total fi xed costs, total and fi finance director.
We believe that we variable remuneration paid including the Our overarching remuneration philosophy developed a comprehensive and credible total deferred portion and share-based has remained unchanged from prior years response to shareholders concerns and costs as spread over the period of the as we retain focus on employing and after a period of shareholder consultation, share incentive option has averaged at retaining the highest calibre individuals we are pleased to report that the fi final 41% over the same period.
Personal tax through the payment of industry incentive scheme proposals and long-term deduction, payroll taxes and national competitive packages and long-term share incentive awards were approved at the insurance mean that a substantial portion awards which ensure alignment with key annual general meeting in August 2013. of the gross compensation is ultimately stakeholders in our business.
The short-term incentive awards made to paid to the tax authorities.
Our payments Our rewards continue to be distributed the chief executive, managing director and to shareholders remain within our stated from pools of realised earnings generated group risk and fi finance director during the dividend policies, and we have retained a in excess of targeted thresholds which 2014 fi financial year have been made portion of earnings each year to build up refl ect usage of risk-adjusted capital.
This in accordance with the newly approved capital resources.
economic value-added model has been in plan which clearly sets out the link between In summary, we estimate our total operation for about 15 years and ensures their pay and performance a detailed economic return has been divided between that risk and capital management form the assessment is provided on the main stakeholders, as follows: basis for key processes at both a group pages 141 to 143. and transaction level thus balancing the Governments through corporate, The remuneration committee directed rewards between all stakeholders.
personal and other taxation at 04 much of its time and efforts during the 2014 source28% We currently recognise the principles of fi financial year on the new remuneration both malus and clawback in respect of regulations under the Capital Requirements Employees through total compensation the chief executive, managing director Directive IV CRD IV, which essentially net of taxation at source 44% and group risk and fi finance director but focus on the application of a cap on only malus in respect of PRA Code staff variable pay that can be paid to Prudential Owners through dividends before and have considered the fi financial results Regulation Authority PRA Code staff as taxation at source 13%.
and governance reviews and regulatory defi ned in the rules.
These regulations have Our value added statement is actions to assess whether any such action presented us with some challenges and provided on page 9. is appropriate this year.
We have concluded will unfortunately require some changes that no such action is required.
in our recently approved remuneration policy for the chief executive, managing Staff ownership of shares remains a core director and group risk and fi finance director.
Our employee These regulations also impact some of our Investec integrated annual report 2014 127 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued 2013:46.1% sharing percentage of the profi t pool The year under review Wealth & Investment: 56.1% Key points to note for the period under Increase the deferral period of the 2013:55.6% review include: short-term incentive Specialist Banking: 43.5% 2013:41.0% Group performance Reduce the overall quantum of total remuneration payable to the three Overall group results have been Salary and benefi ts for executive executive directors relative to current negatively impacted by the depreciation directors: remuneration arrangements.
of the Rand: Pounds Sterling exchange The remuneration committee approved rate of approximately 20% over infl ationary increases in the salary and These proposals will be put to shareholders theperiod benefi ts of the executive directors in line for approval at the annual general meeting with average salary increases provided in August 2014.
We have discussed these Earnings attributable to shareholders to employees across the group proposals with a representative group of before goodwill, acquired intangibles, our largest shareholders both in the UK non-operating items and after nonAnnual bonus for executive directors: and South Africa.
These shareholders have controlling interests increased 6.0% to Inlight of the positive fi financial been broadly supportive of these proposed 327.8 million an increase of 20.5% performance of the group in 2014 and changes and share the remuneration on a currency neutral basis after consideration of progress across committees view that Investec has to adopt a range of fi financial and non-fi financial Adjusted earnings per share increased policies that allow it to remain competitive in measures as refl ected on page 152, 5.3% an increase of 19.7% on a attracting and retaining talent and ensuring the remuneration committee approved currency neutral basis to 38.0 pence the long-term success of the business.
The an annual bonus of 1.97million for fi xed allowance payable in shares which each of Stephen Koseff and Bernard Dividends per share increased 5.6% ensures a greater degree of alignment with Kantor, 1.77million for Glynn Burger to19.0 pence shareholders and the extended deferral and 4.36million for Hendrik du Toit.
A period have been seen as key positive Return on equity increased to 10.1% total of 5.50million is to be received up aspects.
We would like to thank our 2013: 9.4% front in cash and 4.57million deferred.
shareholders for the open and frank nature Recurring income as a % of total Non-executive directors: of these conversations and for the various operating income amounted to 70.7% The board approved a modest increase suggestions that were made.
These awards 2013: 68.6% in fees for the forthcoming year, roughly will be subject to both malus adjustment in line with infl ation, and introduced and clawback.
Return on average risk-weighted assets a per diem allowance for ad hoc increased to 1.14% 2013: 1.06% Further detail on these proposals requirements.
Core capital, leverage and liquidity ratios Proposed changes to executive remain sound directors remuneration for the Our total shareholder return was 9.6% 2015 fi financial year for Investec plc in Pounds Sterling and CRD IV introduces a variable pay cap of 36.3% for Investec Limited in Rand.
This 100% of fi xed pay for PRA Code staff compares to a return of 27.4% for the which can be increased to 200% of fi xed FTSE 350 General Finance Index and a pay with shareholder approval.
Our current return of 25.7% for the JSE Top 40 Index shortand long-term incentive schemes for the chief executive, managing director The groups variable pay pool was established with reference to the groups and group risk and fi finance director will, however, require adjustments.
In summary underlying profi t before tax as described in detail on pages 132 and 133 and we are proposing to: 04 amounted to 305million 2013: 274 Increase the cap on variable pay to million, with approximately 20% of the 200% of fi xed pay pool deferred Introduce a fi xed allowance payable Total staff compensation ratios are as inshares follows: Total for the group: 46.3% Discontinue the long-term incentive award 2013:43.9% Asset Management: 47.7% Decrease the short-term incentive 128 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Our proposals to ensure compliance Proposed changes to other with CRD IV, i. e. increasing the ratio of PRA Code staff remuneration variable to fi xed remuneration to 200% for the 2015 fi financial year Our non-executive directors We currently have approximately 39 PRA remuneration.
Excluding the executive and non-executive directors, we have 33 PRA Signed on behalf of the board Code staff.
Approximately half of these employees receive variable remuneration that amounts to less than two times their fi xed remuneration.
The balance, who historically received higher levels of variable remuneration, will have structural amendments made to ensure compliance Perry Crosthwaite Chairman, remuneration committee with the two times cap.
This will be in the form of a fi xed monthly cash Code staff 11 June 2014 allowance and a commensurate reduction in the levels of variable remuneration.
Looking forward The remuneration committee will continue to ensure that reward packages remain appropriately competitive, provide an incentive for performance, and take due regard of our culture, values, philosophies, business strategy, risk management and capital management frameworks.
We are aware that the UK government has lodged a legal challenge to the variable pay cap in CRD IV with the European Court of Justice.
If this process is successful we may have to submit a revised remuneration policy to shareholders for approval.
Where appropriate, we will continue to consult shareholders and shareholder bodies on any signifi cant proposed changes in remuneration policy.
We are seeking shareholder approval at the 2014 annual general meeting for: Our directors remuneration policy Our 2014 integrated annual report on directors remuneration 04 Investec integrated annual report 2014 129
