Governance 91 Report on Directors Remuneration In summary, the changes represent r a significant reduction in opportunity under the annual bonus, particularly for on-target performance.
As a result, there is a reduction in the amount of the package delivered in short-term cash r an increase in the Incentive Share Plan ISP element this reects the greater emphasis we wish to place on sustained, long-term performance r for the Chief Executive, a significant reduction in remuneration opportunity for on target performance and the maximum opportunity has been reduced slightly and Tony Ball r for the Group Finance Director, an overall reduction to his on target opportunity, however, there has been an increase to his base salary and to the maximum opportunity to ensure his total package remained around the same value.
We did not feel a significant reduction for the Review of the year Group Finance Director was appropriate given his position against the I became the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in March 2014 market remains below median and given his tenure and performance following the retirement of Patricia Hewitt.
I would like to oer my in the role.
thanks to Patricia for her leadership and contribution during the time We believe that these restructured packages will incentivise and reward she{was chair of the committee.
our executive directors to deliver long-term, sustainable profitable As a committee, we consider that the basic remuneration principles revenue growth, in line with our business strategy and shareholder remain appropriate and fundamentally t for purpose namely that interests, without encouraging inappropriate risk-taking.
base salaries are positioned below median against our comparator In considering the leaving terms for Ian Livingston, we took into account group, and a significant proportion of total remuneration is variable and the unique circumstances of his departure.
In particular, the committee performance related.
We consider that this policy has helped drive the noted that Ian was not pursuing another commercial opportunity and strong performance that the company has delivered in recent years.
was taking a role in the national interest.
Ian did not leave due to poor Nevertheless, as part of our ongoing dialogue with shareholders, a performance and, indeed, in reecting on Ians five-year tenure as regular feedback theme has been that we should review the balance Chief{Executive the committee recognised the transformation of the between the short-term and long-term elements of remuneration.
The company under his leadership and the foundation that Ian provided for committee considered this feedback and felt that the time was right future growth.
to make a change as we shift our focus towards our goal of delivering As a result, the committee considered it appropriate for Ians unvested sustainable, profitable revenue growth in addition to continuing our deferred bonus shares, earned for performance over his tenure, to focus on cost transformation.
In addition, given that Ian had been in role for the In this context, upon the appointment of Gavin Patterson as Chief majority of the 2011 ISP award performance period, and taking into Executive in September 2013, we took the opportunity to make a account the strong company and individual performance during this number of changes to the remuneration structure for the Chief Executive period, the committee determined that this award should be pro-rated role.
These changes resulted in a reduction in total remuneration for time and tested for performance upon his departure.
All other ISP for Gavin relative to his predecessors arrangements, particularly at awards were lapsed in full, which at the date of lapse represented over on-target performance, while signicantly shifting the balance of 9m of potential value forfeited.
More detail is set out on page 96. opportunity from short-term to long-term achievement.
To maintain alignment within our executive team, we have subsequently extended Outcomes for the year this re-balancing to the Group Finance Directors remuneration The company delivered a strong financial performance for the year.
The changes are also being cascaded further down the Adjusted earnings per share increased 7%, normalised free cash ow was company, to ensure that remuneration arrangements for all senior higher than our outlook for the year, and underlying revenue excluding executives are aligned to the same corporate goals.
Although there was an improved trend on revenue growth, the ISP revenue target was not reached.
For annual bonus purposes, the company performed well against the financial targets, although the customer service target was not met.
As a result the annual bonus for the Chief Executive was 68% of maximum.
In keeping with past practice, part of the annual bonus is deferred for three years and paid in shares.
Further information on annual bonus is set out on page{ 93 Governance 92 Governance During the three-year performance cycle just ended for the ISP, In terms of base salary, we aim to position executive directors below shareholders have experienced a 139% Total Shareholder Return TSR median against our comparator group.
In recognition of the exceptional and when combined with very positive cash ow performance, the ISP support and stability which Tony Chanmugam provided during the 2011 vested at 78.7% of maximum, compared to 100% last year, transition of the Chief Executive, the committee considered that an reecting the level of stretch in the targets the committee set in 2011. increase of Tonys salary to 600,000 during the year was appropriate More information on ISP vesting is set out on page 94. from 550,000.
Subsequently, as part of our re-balancing of the remuneration framework, and within the context of the overall reduction Total remuneration for the year is summarised in the in his target remuneration opportunity, the committee wished to 93 single gure table on page recognise Tonys continued strong performance during the year and the{stability which he brings to the company at this time.
As such, Tonys{salary will increase to 630,000 per annum, eective June Our employees are also sharing in BTs improved performance.
2014, {which remains well below median when compared to similar Over{22,000 individuals who invested in our five-year SAYE plan, roles{in comparable companies.
with{an option price of 61p, are currently expected to make significant gains in the summer of 2014 when these options mature.
Gavin Patterson will receive a salary increase to 950,000 per annum from 925,000, eective June 2014, an increase of 2.7%.
This is Looking ahead within the mid-range of pay awards for our managerial and technical As outlined above, we have responded to feedback from our specialist population around 23,000 people.
Pay awards for the shareholders and re-balanced our remuneration framework to drive majority of this population are agreed through consultation and long-term, sustainable profitable revenue growth, in line with our collective bargaining with the Prospect trade union.
business strategy and shareholder interests, whilst being mindful not to encourage inappropriate risk-taking.
For 2014 15, executive directors The committee has continued to maintain the link between pay and pay arrangements will be structured in line with this re-balanced performance and our policy report sets out our continuing philosophy framework.
We have made two further changes to increase the alignment of our pay framework with shareholders interests r Holding period For ISP awards made in 2014 onwards, executive Tony Ball directors will be required to hold the net shares received on vesting Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following payment of tax and other statutory deductions for two 7 May 2014 years, following the end of the three-year performance period.
r Increase to shareholding guidelines For 2014 15, our shareholding guideline for the Chief Executive has been increased from 200% to 300% of salary.
