Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committee will review the use of the PSP Multiplier structure in 2016 and the overall remuneration policy I am pleased to present our directors remuneration report for will be subject to a further binding shareholder vote every three the year ended 31 March 2014. years or sooner if changes are made to the policy in the interim.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will continue to be subject Structure of the report to the advisory shareholder vote.
In light of our goal to ensure transparency, last years report anticipated many of the new remuneration disclosure Progress during the year requirements but this is the first year that the report is formally TM We have seen the US approval of Varithena by the FDA in subject to the new regime contained in Part 4 to Schedule 8 to November 2013 and the preparations for commercial launch this the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts year.
We made two acquisitions in 2013 relating to the EkoSonic and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
and TheraSphere products, which together have significantly As such, it has been separated into the following parts: enhanced our Interventional Medicine commercial offerings and broadened the product development portfolio.
In addition, the Annual Statement summarising the key messages and progress has been made in expanding the geographical coverage explaining the business context in which the Committees of our product offerings.
major decisions during the period were taken: At the same time, the executives have sought to strengthen the the Directors Remuneration Policy Report describing the overall organisation and the underlying performance of the future executive remuneration policy to be put to a binding established business has, once again, been strong.
shareholder vote at the AGM to be held on 16 July 2014 and which will operate with effect from the AGM: and This work has created significant shareholder value with an increase in the share price from 360.1p on 1 April 2013 to 547.7p the Annual Report on Remuneration which provides on 31 March 2014.
As a result, there will be 100% vesting under shareholders with details of the remuneration actually the 2011 Option and PSP awards, subject to the decision of each delivered to the Companys directors during the 2013 2014 of the executive directors whether to roll over PSP amounts that financial year and which is subject to the advisory vote at the would otherwise vest, in order to receive a Multiplier award that forthcoming AGM.
This report also summarises the details and can increase or decrease the actual level of awards vesting context for major decisions on directors remuneration made based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance during the year.
up to the end of year five after grant.
With respect to the 2011 2014 Annual Statement: alignment with shareholders PSPs, the actual amount vesting will depend on whether the We believe in rewarding the executive directors based on executive directors elect to roll over an award from a Core award performance and delivery of shareholder value and by reference to a Multiplier award.
If no such election is made vesting will to transparent and demanding performance targets.
Vesting will occur in July 2016 if such an maintain our goal of attracting, retaining and motivating election is made.
leadership of the calibre required to drive the long-term success Following the acquisitions of the EkoSonic and TheraSphere of the Company.
products during the year, the Committee increased the financial Last year, shareholders approved a number of changes to the targets that were applied to the Company annual bonus scheme.
future direction and structure of the policy for the remuneration Performance against those targets was measured at 82%.
of the executive directors, following the detailed work carried out Since the 2013 AGM, the Committee has addressed a further by the Remuneration Committee and its consultation with our issue raised by investors during the consultation period major shareholders.
This included changes to the Performance preceding the AGM.
We have introduced shareholding guidelines Share Plan PSP award levels and performance conditions to for the remainder of the Leadership Team at 50% of salary and, better reflect the stage of evolution of the Company, as well as to avoid any doubt and in line with good corporate governance the introduction of the PSP multiplier awards.
In addition, practice, we have incorporated into the shareholding guidelines shareholder support was received for the realignment of the wording to make it clear that the pledging and hedging of shares Chief Executives salary.
held by the executives and Leadership Team is not permitted.
The objective of these structural changes was to ensure that the The 2014 salary increases for both the executive directors were policy maintained the correct balance between rewards for equal to the average of those to be awarded to the wider short-term performance with respect to the Companys current workforce at 3.5% with the full range of increases across the portfolio of marketed products, the successful US launch of TM Company being 2 to 15%.
This change resulted in salaries for Varithena and longer-term strategic initiatives, such as the the year starting 1 April 2014 of 569,250 for Louise Makin and development of new products and new product acquisitions.
introduction of the multiplier awards, spanning five years, also more appropriately matches the reward structure with the time We welcome shareholder feedback and hope that you are able to horizons of a business of our nature.
That, together with the support our policy and the way in which it has been applied in introduction last year of increased shareholding guidelines, the year at the AGM on 16 July 2014. means that the executive directors have significant value invested in the long-term performance of the Company, aligning their interests with those of shareholders if they continue to Ian Much deliver performance, not just over the short and medium-term Remuneration Committee Chairman but also the long-term.
19 May 2014 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report The Committee believes that the salary and bonus structure and This part of the directors remuneration report sets out the forfeiture provisions, together with the shareholding guidelines remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in and participation in long-term incentive plans with performance accordance with Part 4 of the Regulations.
The policy has been measured over three to five years from grant, provides a developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate balanced market-competitive package for the executive team Governance Code and the views of our major shareholders.
The which is aligned with shareholder interests.
However the Policy Report describes the policy to be applied for 2014 Committee will keep the approach under review in order to onwards and will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the ensure it remains appropriate.
If approved, the policy will take The Committees specific policy for each element of formal effect from that date.
The policy for remuneration for executive directors is to enable the Company to offer a package of rewards that: is sufficiently competitive to enable the Company to attract and retain the management talent it needs to ensure the Group is successful: supports the achievement of the Companys strategy by providing the potential to receive significant rewards linked to the long-term performance of the Company: aligns executives with shareholders and helps to retain them by delivering a significant element of remuneration in shares: and is flexible enough to cope with the Companys changing needs as it grows and the strategy evolves.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Provides market Set at a broadly mid-market Other than to reflect a None, although overall individual competitive fixed level and normally reviewed change in the size and and corporate performance is a remuneration that takes annually taking account of complexity of the role or factor considered when reviewing account of individual individual responsibilities, Company or to reflect salaries.
responsibilities, and experience and experience in the role, Details of the salary review in the recruits and retains performance.
salary increases will period are set out on page 67. executives that are capable normally be no higher than Benchmarked using data of delivering the Groups the average increases for a general industry group strategic objectives.
taking place across the selected on the basis of Company, taking into market capitalisation and a account, where appropriate, sector group of UK-listed the relevant pay groups.
pharmaceutical, device and biotechnology companies.
Benefits Provide a competitive The main benefits currently The quantum of benefits N A package of benefits that provided comprise medical will be in line with local assists with attracting and benefits and permanent markets.
The value of each retaining employees.
health insurance, but the benefit is based on the cost components will have to the Company which may regard to the market vary from year to year.
practice in the location of any future appointment.
This could include relocation allowances or other appropriate benefits.
52 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual bonus Links reward to the All employees except EKOS Maximum of 100% of salary Performance targets for the Company's short-term aims employees who will be for executive directors.
executive directors are set annually and value creation integrated into current by the Committee and focus on objectives.
arrangements for the next Company financial performance fiscal year including the measures such as revenue, trading Deferral of part of the bonus executive directors profit, operating cash although the under the Deferred Share participate.
Committee has discretion to select Bonus Plan DSBP provides other measures and performance an element of lock-in and May be paid as a mix of against a number of corporate and alignment with shareholders.
cash and deferred shares individual objectives intended to under the DSBP.
DSBP awards are structured Financial objectives account for the as conditional awards over majority of the bonus.
shares to be held for three years and are subject to Targets are set annually on a sliding 6 clawback.
scale with 50% of maximum bonus potential payable for on-target The level of deferral is performance and up to 25% linked to the achievement of of maximum bonus potential the individuals applicable payable for performance at shareholding guidelines as threshold.
follows: The Committee has discretion to Holding less than 50% of adjust the bonus pay-out if in its guideline 50% of any opinion, the pay-out would not bonus deferred otherwise appropriately reflect the performance achieved.
In addition, Holding equal to 50% of the Committee must be satisfied guideline all bonus in that a minimum level of financial excess of 50% of the performance has been achieved maximum deferred before any bonus is paid.
Holding between 50% and If, in exceptional circumstances, it 100% of guideline defer was decided to apply upward all bonus in excess of discretion, it would first be percentage of guideline discussed with major shareholders achieved i. e. if achieved and the reasons fully disclosed in 75% of guideline, only the annual report on remuneration bonus in excess of 75% of for the relevant year.
When the shareholding guideline is reached no bonus would be required to be deferred.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long-term Support the strategy to Annual awards of Maximum Core award of Awards prior to 2013 are subject to incentives transition the business from performance shares Core 150% of salary 200% in conditions which are described in the an R&D-focused specialty awards are made under the exceptional circumstances.
Annual Report on Remuneration on pharma company to an Performance Share Plan Award can be increased to pages 64 and 65. earnings-driven PSP, vesting of which is up to 300% of salary Core awards granted from 2013 are international specialist subject to the achievement subject to further subject to relative TSR and EPS growth healthcare company.
of targets measured over a performance measures if performance conditions.
TSR is 2,5 minimum of three years.
executive directors elect to Ensures remuneration measured relative to companies in the forego vesting of the Core includes a strong emphasis Awards of performance FTSE 250 index and EPS is measured award at year three in on the delivery of growth, shares are subject to as growth in adjusted EPS in the final exchange for a Multiplier 6 sustained financial clawback.
year of the three year performance award.
They may elect to performance and superior period.
roll over 50 or 100% of a Executives are offered the shareholder returns.
Core award vesting right to opportunity to roll over 50% 25% of each element vests at median secure the opportunity to or 100% of PSP awards threshold performance, rising to full receive a Multiplier award.
representing up to 150% of vesting at upper quartile stretch salary vesting in year three performance.
Details of the targets for in return for a Multiplier these awards are provided in the award, vesting of which is Annual Report on Remuneration.
subject to TSR performance For the 2013 and 2014 awards EPS and measured over five years TSR conditions have equal weightings.
from the date of grant of the In future years the weighting between original Core award.
EPS and TSR conditions would be Executives are entitled to decided by the Remuneration receive the value of dividend Committee prior to each grant.
payments that would Multiplier awards are measured by otherwise have been paid reference to TSR performance only over on vested awards.
Multiplier awards 2013 PSP awards onwards: Each 1% outperformance underperformance of the FTSE 250 index at the end of five years increases or decreases the total number of shares that would have vested under the PSP by 1% i. e. rolled over awards could be increased or decreased by 100% so that the number of shares the subject of the award could be doubled or be reduced to zero.
Multiplier awards 2011 and 2012 PSP awards only: Each 1% outperformance underperformance of the FTSE 250 index at the end of five years increases or decreases the total number of shares that would have vested under the PSP by 1.5% i. e. rolled over awards could be increased by 150% or reduced by -100% down to zero.
Pension Provides competitive For longer serving Defined benefit provision: N A retirement benefits that employees: participation in 1 60ths accrual up to cap reward sustained contributory defined benefit reviewed annually, normal contribution.
pension arrangements up to retirement age of 60. a scheme specific cap or Defined contribution or HMRC defined limits.
cash allowance: 25% of For more recent hires and salary.
provision above the cap: defined contribution pension provision and or cash allowances.
4 All-employee Encourages employees to Executive directors can Participation limits are N A share plans acquire shares in BTG, participate in BTGs those set by the relevant tax increasing alignment with HMRC-approved save-asauthorities from time shareholders.
you-earn scheme which is to time.
A US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with standard terms is operated for US employees.
54 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Share holding Provide alignment between Executive directors are CEO: 250% of salary.
required to build significant CFO: 150% of salary.
Executive directors may sell vesting shares to meet tax liabilities.
In addition, provided that executive directors have achieved and continue to maintain the guideline level, executive directors will be permitted to sell shares in addition to those required to meet their tax liabilities within a 30 day period from the announcement of the Companys results and completion of investor road-shows for any period.
1 In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Directors are eligible to participate in the UK Sharesave Plan on the same terms Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure as other employees.
for executive directors and senior management will not raise environmental, 5 Copies of the PSP and DSBP plan rules are available on request from the social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible Company Secretary.
More generally, the Committee will ensure that the overall 6 For all awards granted post 1 July 2011 under the DSBP, PSP and ESOP are remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking.
subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the financial 2 Prior to 2013, awards consisted of a mix of market value share options granted results of the Company for the financial year to which an award relates being under the ESOP and performance shares granted under the PSP.
discovered, an error in the calculation of performance for an award or individual 3 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in misconduct resulting in dismissal.
this table for 2014 can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
7 Under the shareholding guidelines the executive directors are not permitted to 4 All employee share plans do not have performance conditions.
Executive hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
Committee discretions Remuneration at a glance The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans The Companys policy results in a significant portion of according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC remuneration received by executive directors being dependent rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of on Company performance.
The chart below illustrates how the these plans, the Committee will apply certain operational total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under discretions.
These include the following: three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum.
These charts are indicative only, as share price selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
All assumptions made are noted below the chart.
determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: Value of remuneration packages at different levels determining the quantum of awards and or payments within of performance the limits set out in the policy table above : Louise Makin, Chief Executive Officer determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: Minimum 100% 684,000 making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 58% 24% 18% 1,182,000 On-target circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate 23% 19% 58% Maximum 2,960,000 restructuring events, and special dividends : 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer and applying the appropriate treatment: and Minimum 100% 449,000 undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance On-target 58% 24%18% 775,000 measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
Maximum 23% 19% 58% 1,941,000 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or PSP Basic salary, benefits and pension Bonus LTIP award performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment the Assumptions Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension.
measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult On-Target 50% vesting of the annual bonus and 25% vesting of to satisfy.
the core LTIP award 37.5% of salary.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested Maximum 100% vesting of the annual bonus and 100% or unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages vesting of the core LTIP award plus 100% application of the 63 to 65 of the annual report on remuneration, remain eligible multiplier 300% of salary.
for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Governance Directors remuneration report continued How employees pay is taken into account in setting the Salary levels on which other elements of the package are remuneration of the executive directors calculated are based on those as at 1 April 2014.
The Committee considers the base salaries for the Leadership The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying Team and, although it does not directly consult with employees those benefits as disclosed for the year ended on the regarding remuneration policy, it receives information on general 31 March 2014. pay levels to ensure that the Committee has due regard to salary levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy.
Pension levels have been estimated at 20% of base salary levels.
BTGs workforce includes a high proportion of highly qualified scientists, technicians and professionals whose skills are The maximum vesting for the LTIP award includes both Core highly sought after by competitors.
Ensuring that levels of and Multiplier awards.
The normal level of maximum LTIP remuneration for the general workforce are competitive to vesting is 150% of salary for a Core award and 300% if an support staff retention, development in expanded roles and executive director elects for a Multiplier award.
It is assumed motivation is important to BTGs ongoing success and this is that the full Core award is rolled over into a Multiplier award.
reflected in the level and range of salary increases awarded to employees.
As a result BTG is required to benchmark and rebase The executive directors can participate in all employee share salaries from time-to-time.
The average salary increases schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value awarded to BTGs general workforce for 2013 14 were 3.5%.
that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax General workforce increases, effective June 2014, will range approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received between 2% and 15%.
from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
How executive directors remuneration policy relates to the wider Group Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
The remuneration policy described above provides an overview Choice of performance measures and approach to of the structure that operates for the most senior executives in target setting the Company.
A lower incentive opportunity is available below Annual bonus arrangements for the executive directors are split executive level, with specific levels driven by market between financial and individual and corporate non-financial comparatives and the impact of the role.
objectives with the financial targets currently accounting for the As explained above, salaries for the Companys wider workforce majority of the bonus.
Financial performance targets are based are benchmarked externally against comparable companies on the budget and corporate measures and are linked to the within the sector and wider industry.
The Company aims achievement of annual objectives that are consistent with BTGs to ensure that all employees salaries are positioned around longer-term goals.
The Remuneration Committee reviews these a mid-market level for the role taking account of performance KPIs each year and varies them as appropriate including with and individual responsibility.
respect to the weighting of financial and non-financial targets to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
A Employees are provided with a competitive local package sliding scale of targets is set for each KPI to encourage of benefits that includes participation in the Groups continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch pension arrangements.
For each metric, the threshold target requires the Company to maintain or improve on the prior year performance All employees except EKOS employees who will be integrated with the stretch target requiring significant out performance into current arrangements for the next fiscal year are eligible to above plan.
participate in the bonus arrangements with targets aligned to the financial performance of the Group and their individual For current and future awards under the PSP, the metrics are performance within their specific area of responsibility.
split between adjusted EPS and relative TSR out performance of a general market index FTSE 250, which ensures focus on The Company believes that broad-based employee participation sustainable growth and superior returns to shareholders with in share schemes is an important alignment tool helping to focus the weighting between TSR and EPS determined by the employees on delivering value for shareholders.
The comparator index for TSR and staff who are considered to have the greatest potential to weighting between each measure for Core awards will remain influence Company performance are also able to receive awards under review.
In order to incentivise the achievement of of long-term incentives at a lower maximum percentage of sustained outstanding returns to shareholders over the longer salary than the executive directors.
In addition, share ownership term and assist with retention, at the end of the normal three guidelines apply to members of BTGs Leadership Team with year performance period executives are able to elect to roll over lower levels of holding required 50% of salary than for some or all of the performance shares that would otherwise vest executive directors.
In order to encourage wider employee share in return for the opportunity to receive an enhanced or reduced ownership, the Company operates a Sharesave Plan in the UK, award at the end of five years, subject to outperformance of the with an international section for employees in Australia and FTSE 250 Index over that five year period.
This multiplier is Germany, and a Stock Purchase Plan in the US.
These are intended to further align the interests of the executive directors described in more detail below.
with shareholders whilst rewarding performance which demonstrably delivers value to shareholders over the longer term.
Performance over a five-year period both recognises and takes into account the Companys strategic goals and its ongoing evolution and increasing maturity as an organisation.
TSR is measured independently for the Committee by New Bridge Street NBS.
56 How shareholders views are taken into account Benefits and pensions will be in-line with those offered to other When shaping remuneration policy the Remuneration executive directors, taking account of local market practice with Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation relocation expenses provided if necessary.
Tax equalisation may to the Annual General Meeting each year and guidance from also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by shareholder representative bodies more generally.
taxation due to their employment with the Company.
Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be met by The Remuneration Committee engages proactively with the Company.
shareholders, and takes seriously their views.
When any material changes are made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration It is not anticipated that the aggregate ongoing incentive Committee Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in opportunity offered to new recruits will be higher than that advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
Different measures and targets under the bonus plan may be set initially taking account of Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the last years directors remuneration report and matters discussed financial year at which they join.
Any increases in quantum with shareholders during the year are provided in the Annual offered above the policy limit would be contingent on the Report on Remuneration.
Company receiving shareholder approval to its approved policy at its next general meeting.
During the year, the Committee engaged with its largest shareholders regarding changes to the executive directors The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based remuneration arrangements, in particular the changes which elements to assist with recruitment for example to buyout were made to the PSP.
These were approved at BTGs AGM in July existing entitlements when it considers these to be in the best 2013.
As a result of this engagement, the Committee decided to interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Existing extend the operation of share ownership guidelines to members arrangements will be used to the extent possible subject to the of BTGs Leadership Team who are not members of the Board higher limits in exceptional circumstances set out in the policy and to clarify that the policy formally prohibits the hedging and however, the Committee retains discretion to use the flexibility pledging of shares by directors or the Leadership Team.
provided by the Listing Rules to make such awards.
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished All employee share plans when leaving the former employer and would reflect as far as The Company operates other share plans as follows: possible the nature and time horizons attached to that an HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn scheme, open to all remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
eligible employees including executive directors, with a Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time 36 month savings period enabling UK employees to acquire of appointment.
shares at a price not less than 80% of the market value of For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element the shares at the date of grant.
The Scheme provides an awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out international section to allow for the participation of according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account Australian and German employees: the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration a US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with a 24 month obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, savings period under which its US employees are able to provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the acquire shares at not less than 85% of the market value earliest opportunity.
of the shares at the date of grant: and For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive the non-shareholder approved Senior Management director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with Performance Share Plan enables awards over market the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
purchased shares to be granted to certain senior employees Legacy arrangements below Board level where it is not appropriate to make awards For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, under the PSP.
Awards under this plan can be made over authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments market purchase shares only and are normally subject to entered into with current or former directors such as the different performance criteria to awards made under the PSP.
payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share schemes Approach to recruitment and promotions that have been disclosed to shareholders in this or any previous The remuneration package for a new director will be set in remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former accordance with the terms of the Companys approved directors will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Report remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment as they arise.
but focusing on the objective of appointing the most appropriate External appointments incumbent in the right geography.
The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Company for The salary for a new executive will be set to reflect their skills executives to hold non-executive directorships outside the and experience, the Companys target pay positioning and the Group.
Any such appointments are subject to approval by the overall market rate for the role in the relevant location, subject to Board and the director may retain any fees payable.
Louise the overall goal of attracting the right candidate.
Where it is Makin received fees of 65,550 for being on the Board of Intertek appropriate to do so, salaries may be set below the normal Group during the year to 31 March 2014 July 2012 to March market rate, with phased increases over the first few years as 2013: 37,500.
Rolf Soderstrom does not currently hold any the executive gains experience in their new role.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts and payments for loss of office contracts.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion Executive directors have rolling service contracts, details in determining whether termination payments should be paid by of which are summarised in the table below: instalments, taking account of the reason for the departure of the director and their prior performance.
Other than in gross Provision Detailed terms misconduct situations, the Company would expect to honour the contractual entitlements of terminated directors.
Contract dates Louise Makin 19 October 2004 Rolf Soderstrom 4 December 2008 Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but Notice period Twelve months from both the Company and not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement no bonus from the executive would be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
Any bonuses paid to a Termination The Company may terminate the contracts of good leaver would be based on an assessment of their payment the executive directors with immediate effect individual and the Companys performance over the period, by making a payment in lieu of notice.
and pro-rated for the proportion of the bonus year worked.
With respect to Rolf Soderstrom, any payments made would be determined by reference to With regards to long-term incentive awards, the PSP rules normal contractual principles with mitigation provide that other than in certain good leaver circumstances, being applied wherever relevant or appropriate.
awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an individual As Louise Makins contract was established is a good leaver, the Remuneration Committees policy for future approximately 10 years ago, it does not provide core PSP awards will be to permit awards to remain outstanding for mitigation.
until the end of the original performance period, when a pro-rata Other than as specifically provided for in the reduction will be made to take account of the proportion of the policy with respect to good leavers where for vesting period that lapsed prior to termination of employment, example existing multiplier awards elected for although the Committee has discretion to partly or completely are retained the directors contracts do not disapply pro-rating and the performance conditions in certain provide for automatic entitlement to bonus or circumstances.
Multiplier awards would not be subject to share-based payments.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to deem Remuneration Louise Makins contract contains the following an individual to be a good leaver.
In doing so, it will take account entitlements remuneration related entitlements: of the reason for their departure and the performance of the salary, membership of Company pension individual.
scheme or contribution to a personal pension, medical benefits and permanent health Deferred bonus share awards will also normally lapse on insurance cessation of employment, unless the executive director is deemed to be a good leaver by the Remuneration Committee, as Rolf Soderstroms contract contains the referred to above.
following remuneration related entitlements: The Committee will have authority to settle legal claims against salary, contribution to a personal pension, the Company e. g. for unfair dismissal, discrimination or medical benefits and permanent health insurance whistle-blowing that arise on termination.
The Committee may also authorise the provision of outplacement services and pay The Companys policy on new directors service contracts is that, reasonable legal expenses associated with the termination.
in line with the best practice provisions of the Code, they should be terminable by the Company on a maximum of one years The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but notice and contracts should not provide for predetermined have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years, compensation in the event of termination or provision for which may be renewed by mutual agreement, normally for a enhanced payments in the event of a takeover of the Company.
The terms of appointment provide for a Provisions permitting the Company to make any termination notice period in the event of early termination of six months for payments by instalments, and requiring directors to mitigate the Chairman and three months for other non-executive their loss in such circumstances, will be included in new directors, other than if they are not re-elected at an AGM.
Details of contracts and letters of appointment, for directors serving at the date of this report, are as set out below.
Non-executive Date of appointment Notice period months Date of expiry of current contract Garry Watts 1 January 2012 6 31 December 2014 Giles Kerr 1 October 2007 3 30 September 2014 Ian Much 1 August 2010 3 31 July 2016 Melanie Lee 29 November 2010 3 28 November 2016 James OShea 2 April 2009 3 1 April 2015 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 3 31 December 2015 58 Non-executive directors and Chairmans fees The table below summarises the Companys policy in relation to the fees of non-executive directors.
Purpose and link Performance to strategy Operation Maximum targets Takes account of recognised Non-executive directors receive fees paid monthly in cash and N A N A practice and set at a level that consist of an annual basic fee plus additional fees for additional is sufficient to attract and retain responsibilities such as a Committee Chairmanship and the role high-calibre non-executives.
When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market movements in non-executive director fees, Board committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments and the general economic environment.
In exceptional circumstances additional fees may be paid where there is a substantial increase in the time commitment required of non-executive directors.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 April each year.
Non-executives do not participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive plans and do not receive any benefits.
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors, Annual Report on Remuneration is responsible for proposing changes to the non-executive This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with directors fees.
The Senior Independent Director, in consultation Part 3 of the Regulations as amended, and 9.8.
6R of the Listing with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing Rules.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an changes to the Chairmans fees.
In each case this follows advice advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The information on market fee levels supplied by NBS.
In proposing such fees, on pages 51 to 66 has been audited.
account is also taken of the time commitments of the Companys About the Remuneration Committee and its advisers non-executive directors.
The decision on fee changes is taken by The Remuneration Committee has been established by the the Board as a whole.
Individual non-executive directors do not Board and is responsible for executive remuneration.
take part in discussions on their remuneration.
During the year the Committee reviewed and updated its terms Limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation and of reference, which are available in full on the Companys website hospitality are provided in relation to the performance of or from the Company on request.
Members Member Member since Ian Much Chairman 28 September 2010 Giles Kerr 3 November 2009 Melanie Lee 23 March 2011 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 41.
Other attendees at The Chairman Garry Watts, Chief Executive Officer Louise Makin, Chief Financial Officer Rolf Soderstrom Remuneration Committee and HR Director Yvonne Rogers may attend meetings by invitation, other than when their own remuneration meetings is being considered.
The Company Secretary Paul Mussenden or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Committee evaluation During the year, the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness and the results, along with recommendations for improvement, were reported to the Board.
The Committee was found to be operating effectively and it was agreed that there would be continued emphasis on ensuring a strong link was maintained between remuneration and performance and strategy and aligned with shareholder interests.
Remuneration risks, whilst not significant, would continue to be carefully managed.
Committee advisers The Committee appoints its own advisers as it sees fit and has appointed New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc to act as advisers to the Committee and a representative usually attends the meetings.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free from undue influence.
NBS advises the Committee on all remuneration issues including the vesting of long-term incentive arrangements.
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of NBS on an annual basis, and is satisfied that it remains independent.
The Group continues to use NBS to advise on other matters including remuneration matters in general.
NBS also assists with the total shareholder return TSR performance measurement and the implementation of employee share schemes and, through Aon plcs Radford brand, provides the Company with advice on matters specific to the US employment market.
The Group also uses Mercer Ltd and  to advise on remuneration issues, particularly in relation to pension schemes.
The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2013 14 were: New Bridge Street 165,343 2012 13: 132,000.
Louise Makin, it includes 43,694 2013: 28,995 representing the value of the increase in the year of her pension entitlement in the defined benefit 2 Awards are included in the financial year in which the performance conditions BTG Pension fund.
The share price used is the closing share price on the date on which 4 performance criteria are met, i. e. the final business day of the financial year.
All directors fees, salaries and bonuses are subject to UK income tax.
For 2014 this figure does not include the Core PSP award as the Core and 5 Benefits shown above for Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom relate principally Multiplier award are treated as a single award and the Core award will be to the provision of life assurance and medical benefits.
shown in 2015 if no election is made and both in 2016 if an election is made.
6 Other shows the value of vested Sharesave options.
If 50% of a Core award is rolled over into a Multiplier award 50% of the Core 7 award will be shown in 2015 and the remainder is part of the Multiplier award Fees paid to Richard Wohanka in 2013 were for the period from his in 2016. appointment to the Board on 1 January 2013.
3 Pension consists of a cash supplement in lieu of employer pension contributions following the changes to pension legislation.
In addition, for Annual bonus for the year to 31 March 2014 restructuring and acquisition costs, group foreign exchange For the year ended 31 March 2014 bonuses were subject to a movements and movements in derivatives.
The cashflow maximum of 100% of base salary for executive directors and up measure adjusts for restructuring and acquisition costs only.
to 75% for other senior staff.
For the financial year to 31 March 2014 they are calculated Bonus targets were set at the start of the financial year for both as follows: Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom based on the achievement of certain objectives.
These were the achievement of targets for Trading profit Cashflow m m revenue growth, a trading profit measure, cash generation and individual KPIs intended to drive future growth in the business.
Profit before tax operating The Committee set threshold and stretch as well as intermediate cash flow 33.3 120.5 target levels for the various targets.
The bonus is calculated on Adjustments: base salary with a percentage pay out of between 25% at threshold, 50% at on-target and 100% at maximum.
Derivatives and group foreign exchange movements 4.7 Following the acquisitions of EKOS Corporation and TheraSphere Amortisation and impairment of in July 2013 the Remuneration Committee adjusted the original business combination intangibles 23.3 targets to reflect the impact of the Board-approved acquisition plans.
The effect was to add 42.5m to revenue, 4.7m to trading Proceeds from fundraising 103.1 profit and 1.4m to cashflow for each of the threshold, target Payments in relation to acquisitions 260.3 and stretch targets.
The revised targets are reflected in the tables opposite.
Restructuring and acquisition costs 13.1 9.8 The trading profit measure, used for both bonuses and the 2011 Trading profit operating cash flow and 2012 long-term incentive awards, is a normalised measure for bonus purposes 65.0 46.5 relating to earnings before amortisation of intangibles, 60 The performance achieved against the bonus targets are summarised as follows: Rolf Louise Makin Soderstrom As a percentage Performance required Pay out Cash Pay out Cash of maximum bonus Threshold Target Stretch Actual Measure opportunity m m m m % of salary % of salary Corporate Financial Targets 1 Revenue 23 % 275.5 286.6 298.5 290.5 19% 19% 3 1 Trading profit 23 3% 59.7 66.7 71.7 65.0 15% 15% 1 Operating cashflow 23 % 23.9 30.6 35.9 46.5 23% 23% 3 Individual Corporate 2 Objectives 30% 25% 25% Total 100% 82% 82% Note: 1 The above table shows the financial targets set for the threshold, target and Interventional Medicine business plan.
The performance thresholds for stretch levels.
individual corporate objectives have not been disclosed as they are deemed 2 to be commercially sensitive.
Covering ensuring the organisational capability and capacity to deliver the strategy: delivering supply chain improvements and progressing the The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust the The level of deferral is linked to the achievement of the final outcome upwards or downwards in the event that an Companys shareholding guidelines and is described in the exceptional event outside of the directors control occurs which, Policy Report.
Provided that the guidelines have been fully in the Committees opinion, materially affected the bonus achieved bonuses are paid entirely in cash.
As Louise Makin and out-turn.
There were no such events during 2013 14, although Rolf Soderstrom have already met their shareholding guidelines, as noted above, the Remuneration Committee did increase each the entirety of the 2014 bonus earned is to be paid in cash.
of the targets following the acquisitions of EKOS Corporation Vesting of LTIP Awards and TheraSphere in July 2013.
Awards granted on 6 July 2011 under both the Executive Share Deferred share bonus plan awards are structured as conditional Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan are based on awards over shares, to be held for three years.
performance to the year ending 31 March 2014.
The performance conditions for these awards are as follows: 2011 LTIP Threshold Stretch Metric Condition Target Target Actual % Vesting Cumulative Trading Three year normalised trading profit period 61.7m 101.7m 173.4m 50% Profit 50% TSR 50% Three year comparison with index between Median Upper TSR: 164.2% median and upper quartile TSR: 47.4% Quartile Rank: 10 50% Rank 60 TSR: 96.4% Rank 31 Total Vesting 100% TSR has been calculated for the Committee by NBS.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 2011 Option vesting details Number of Number of Number of Estimated shares at grant shares to vest shares to lapse Total Value Louise Makin Options 163,356 163,356 163,356 397,935 Rolf Soderstrom Options 99,658 99,658 99,658 242,767 Value estimated as not fully vested until 6 July 2014 and is based on the 163,356 shares comprising an HMRC approved option over 10,036 shares and closing share price on 31 March 2014 of 542.5p per share less the exercise an unapproved option over 153,320 shares.
The 2011 performance share awards are subject to the optional relative TSR performance up to the end of that period.
The Core multiplier mechanism approved by shareholders at the 2013 awards will not vest until the earlier of the expiry of the period AGM.
As a result the number of shares that will actually vest within which Directors are able to elect to roll over their awards under the 2011 PSP this year as a Core award are subject to an without a valid election having been made.
Any Multiplier election by either executive director to forego vesting of 50% or award will not vest until the period of five years from grant of 100% of that award and roll over the award in return for the the original Core award.
Matching awards in respect of the entitlement to receive a Multiplier award which may increase 2011 or 2012 PSP will not be granted until a valid election has or decrease the number of shares vesting at year five based on been made.
LTIP awards made during the year On 17 July 2013, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors.
Face value of award 000 % of shares Number of granted that... shares over shares if all Vesting shares over vest at which award performance determined by Basis of award Share price at which award threshold originally conditions are performance Type of award granted date of grant was granted performance granted met over Louise Makin Nil cost 300% of 395.1p 417,614 25% 824,996 1,649,993 Three option salary of financial 550,000 years to 31 March 2016 Rolf Soderstrom Nil cost 300% of 395.1p 273,728 25% 540,750 1,081,499 Three option salary of financial 360,500 years to 31 March 2016 assumes Core award only i. e. no roll over in exchange for Multiplier award.
vesting of the Core award and an election by the Executive Directors to roll over 100% of the Core award in order to receive the Multiplier award and that assumes Multiplier applies i. e. all core awards are rolled over.
the full Multiplier award ultimately vests.
the 300% conditional award assumes performance that would result in full The number of awards under the 2013 Core award that will vest If a participant elects to roll over 50% or 100% of their vested will be determined according to the satisfaction of the following Core awards, participants will receive matching Multiplier performance conditions each performance condition applies to awards on a one-for-one basis which, together with the vested 50% of a Core award.
deferred Core awards, will be subject to a further performance condition.
Under the Multiplier performance condition, for each Relative TSR ranking 1% of TSR underperformance of the median TSR, the shares against the FTSE 250 Index as at 1 April 2013 that vest under the deferred Core award will decrease by 1%, for Adjusted EPS in for the period from each 1% of TSR outperformance of the median TSR, the shares Percentage of vesting of the financial year to 1 April 2013 to that vest under the Multiplier award will increase by 1%.
that portion of an award 31 March 2016 31 March 2016 Underperformance outperformance 50% of the Core 50% of the Core of the constituents of the FTSE 250 award award Index as at 1 April 2013 for the period Number of Core and Multiplier from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2018 awards that will vest 0% 17.7p below Below median threshold Underperformance 0% of 100% or more 25% 17.7p threshold Median Equal to the median 50% 100% 24.1p stretch Upper quartile Outperformance 100% Vesting on a straight line basis in between threshold and stretch EPS or of 100% or more median and upper quartile TSR.
The EPS targets represent 40% growth at Threshold and 90% growth at Vesting on a straight line basis from 0% to 100%, as set out opposite.
Stretch against the adjusted EPS baseline of 12.7p.
The baseline of 12.7p was determined by the Committee in 2013 and excluded the one-off effects of the termination of the CytoFab development programme from underlying EPS in the 2012 13 financial year.
62 Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
In relation to the PSP award, cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 both the maximum gain that can be realised is approximately 30,000: accordingly, of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year if the market value of a share on the vesting of the PSP award is above 298.9 normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: range 24m pence the number of shares deliverable under the PSP award will reduce so 60m.
The relative TSR target required a threshold performance of a median that their value remains equal to approximately 30,000.
The growth value of position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile with the shares above 298.9 pence is instead delivered under the CSOP.
Based straight line vesting in between these points.
Following the measurement of the on a share price of 542.5 pence Louise would receive 5,530 shares worth TSR performance condition by NBS which was measured at 83.8% against the approximately 30,000 under the PSP award and she would realise a gross comparators and the measurement of the performance against the profit gain i. e. before tax and after payment of the total option exercise costs measure, the Committee approved the vesting of 199,253 shares to Louise Makin of 29,997.60 of approximately 24,448 on the exercise of the CSOP, giving under the 2010 ESOP award and 201,032 shares under the 2010 PSP award, the rise to an aggregate gain under the PSP award and the CSOP of approximately balance of 35,282 shares lapsed.
The shares vested on 13 July 2013.
The total 54,448 the gross gain on 10,036 free share awards at 542.50 pence being gain on the vesting of PSP awards in the year was 789,252. approximately 54,445.
If the share price on vesting is below 298.9 pence the CEO shall acquire all of the 10,036 shares under the PSP award and the CSOP 2 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2011 were subject to a will lapse.
cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 4 both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 range 61.7m to 101.7m.
The relative TSR target required a threshold both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: above upper quartile with a straight line vesting in between these points.
Both of these figures have been increased by Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS which 12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected was measured at 164.2% against the comparators and the measurement of contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013.
The the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the relative TSR target required a threshold performance of a median position and vesting of 163,356 shares to Louise Makin under the 2011 ESOP award and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile with straight 149,831 shares under the 2011 PSP award.
The 163,356 shares awarded under line vesting in between these points.
the 2011 ESOP award comprises an HMRC approved option over 10,036 shares 5 Unless otherwise stated the Companys TSR will be compared with that of a and an unapproved option over 153,320 shares.
Louise has until the third peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies.
In relation to awards granted anniversary of the grant of the PSP award to elect to receive a Multiplier award before 2013 the relevant index comprises FTSE 250 companies excluding as an alternative to the vesting of the 2011 PSP shares as a Core award.
investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & 3 On 6 July 2011 Louise was granted an HMRC tax approved market value option non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, over 10,036 shares at an option exercise price of 298.9 pence per share the real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.
and CSOP and a separate conditional free share award under the PSP over shares companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel worth on vesting a maximum of approximately 30,000 the PSP award.
The & leisure, and leisure goods with opening and closing TSR values averaged over CSOP and PSP award were designed so that when taken together they deliver three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
Rolf has until the third anniversary both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a of the grant of the PSP award to elect to receive a Multiplier award as an three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: alternative to the vesting of the 2011 PSP shares as a Core award.
The relative TSR target required a threshold 3 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 above upper quartile with straight line vesting in between these points.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS which three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: was measured at 83.8% against the comparators and the measurement of range 133.4m to 177.4m.
Both of these figures have been increased by the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the 12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected vesting of 129,514 shares to Rolf Soderstrom under the 2010 ESOP award and contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013.
The 130,670 shares under the 2010 PSP award, the balance of 22,934 shares relative TSR target required a threshold performance of a median position and lapsed.
The total gain on the vesting of PSP a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile with straight awards in the year was 513,010. line vesting in between these points.
2 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2011 were subject to a 4 Unless otherwise stated the Companys TSR will be compared with that of a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies.
In relation to awards granted both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a before 2013 the relevant index comprises FTSE 250 companies excluding three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & range 61.7m to 101.7m.
The relative TSR target required a threshold non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.
and above upper quartile with a straight line vesting in between these points.
companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS which & leisure, and leisure goods with opening and closing TSR values averaged over was measured at 164.2% against the comparators and the measurement of three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Outstanding share awards continued pensionable service earned up to 5 April 2006 and inflation Share options and performance shares were granted for nil subject to a ceiling of 2.5% for pensionable service earned after consideration.
The price used for calculating the number of that date.
Members may take early retirement, once they have shares awarded under the PSP and DSBP was based on the reached 55 years of age, although any pension paid will be average of the closing share prices over the five days subject to an actuarial reduction.
Ill-health retirements may be immediately prior to the award date.
Share options are awarded permitted from an earlier age subject to meeting certain medical using the closing mid-market price on the date before grant.
In the event of the death of a member, the Fund Sharesave options were granted on the condition that provides for a spouses pension to be payable equal to two-thirds participants agreed to enter into a monthly savings contract.
of the deceased members pension including any pension exchanged for a retirement lump sum.
For current active Awards other than DSBP awards are normally satisfied using members, a lump sum death benefit equal to four times basic new issue shares.
The Companys share plans comply with salary up to the earnings cap plus refund of the members recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has contributions is also payable.
always operated within these limits.
Assuming none of the extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having included all During the year Louise Makin contributed 9,870 2013: 9,618 exercised options, the Company has utilised 3% of the 10% in to the Fund, representing 7% of her salary up to the earnings cap ten years and 2.6% of the 5% in ten years in accordance with the and the Company contributed 31,725 2013: 30,915.
Association of British Insurers ABI guidance on dilution limits.
Louise Makin receives a cash payment in lieu of pension to value Directors pensions of 20% of base salary over the earnings cap.
Rolf Soderstrom Louise Makin is a member of the BTG Pension Fund.
The Fund is receives a cash payment in lieu of pension contributions to a contracted-out defined benefit arrangement which provides a the aggregate value of 20% of base salary.
These pension pension based on an accrual rate of either one sixtieth or one allowances are not subject to bonus or other benefits and eightieth of basic salary up to the HMRC Earnings Cap, are paid less such deductions as are required by law.
depending on the level of contributions paid by members of 7% Directors shareholding and share interests or 5% respectively.
Members are able to retire at any time from To align the interests of the executive directors with age 60 without any actuarial reduction to the pension payable shareholders, they are required to build and maintain a holding for Louise Makin this is 2020.
Under current legislation, if of Company shares worth at least 250% of salary in the case of members continue to work beyond age 60, they may continue to the CEO and 150% of salary in the case of the CFO.
pay contributions and enhance their pension entitlement, subject to a maximum of 40 years pensionable service.
Pension payments post retirement are increased annually by inflation for Vested Beneficially unexercised owned at Vested unexercised nil market value 31 March 2014 cost options options Subject to performance conditions Executive and at the date Guideline Directors of this report PSP DSBP Met?
Options PSP Options DSBP Louise Makin 473,373 Yes 386,432 701,523 285,644 107,480 Rolf Soderstrom 184,252 Yes 232,163 469,615 190,331 69,862 Non-Executive Directors Garry Watts 10,000 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Giles Kerr N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Melanie Lee N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Ian Much N A N A N A N A N A N A N A James OShea N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Richard Wohanka 26,500 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Vested unexercised nil cost options count towards the guidelines The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging on the basis of their net of tax value.
Market value options do not arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express count until such time as they have been exercised.
None of the directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement.
66 Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Total shareholder return Chief Executive Officer % change from Value CEO 2013 to 2014 500 1 Salary 16.5% 450 Benefits 0% 400 350 Bonus -4.4% 300 2 Average per UK employee 250 Salary 3.3% 200 150 Benefits 0.9% 100 Bonus -1.5% 50 1 0 Last year, following an exercise to recalibrate the salaries of the key employees in order to ensure that we maintain an appropriate package of 31 Mar 2009 31 Mar 2010 31 Mar 2011 31 Mar 2012 31 Mar 2013 31 Mar 2014 remuneration, Louise Makins salary was increased by 16.5%.
This increase brought her salary, in the Committees assessment, to a broadly mid-market BTG plc FTSE 250 position for her role and reflected her strong performance over a number of years.
BTG employs a high proportion of highly-qualified scientists, This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2014, of 100 invested in BTG plc on technicians and professionals whose skills are highly sought after and whose 31 March 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index.
retention is important to BTGs success.
BTG keeps salaries under review.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
General workforce salary increases in 2013 ranged between 2% and 15%.
2 The Company has chosen the Index as a comparator as it We have an international workforce, however, as Louise Makin is a UK employee, the Committee considers UK employees to be the most relevant believes that it gives shareholders a reasonable comparison comparator group.
with the total shareholder return TSR of other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all Total shareholder return sectors.
The TSR performance has been measured by NBS.
The performance of the Companys ordinary shares compared The middle market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2014 with the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts the Index for was 547.7p.
During the year the share price ranged from a low of the five year period ended on 31 March 2014 is shown in the 323.1p to a high of 624.4p.
Total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer over time 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Remuneration 000 1,351 1,489 1,944 2,073 1,561 Bonus outturn % 79% 70% 95% 100% 82% LTIP Vesting % 100% 89% 80% 92% 100% The chart above shows the total remuneration for the Chief These matters were selected to be shown as they represent key Executive during each of the financial years.
The total distributions by the Group to its stakeholders.
The increase in remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards expenditure on pay is largely linked to the significant increase in which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual headcount of the Group in the year through both organic growth bonus and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a and the two acquisitions.
How the 2014 policy will be applied in 2014 onwards Relative importance of spend on pay 2014 salary review The table below illustrates the change in expenditure by the The executive directors salaries were reviewed in March 2014 Company on remuneration paid to all the employees of the and a 3.5% increase took effect from 1 April 2014 this is equal Group and distributions to shareholders from the financial to the average salary increase provided to UK employees.
year ending 31 March 2013 to the financial year ending The current salaries as at 1 April 2014 are as follows: 31 March 2014.
Salary as at Salary as at 1 April 2014 1 April 2013 Increase % 2014 2013 Percentage m m Change Louise Makin 569,250 550,000 3.5% Overall expenditure Rolf Soderstrom 373,117 360,500 3.5% on pay 63.7 49.8 28% Dividend plus share buyback Nil Nil n a BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Performance targets for the annual bonus and LTIP awards items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.
to be granted However, the financial metrics will continue to be based on three 1 For the year 2014 2015, the annual bonus will continue to be financial metrics, being revenue 3 weighting, trading profit 1 1 based on financial 70% of the total bonus and individual and 3 weighting and operating cash 3 weighting.
Full corporate metrics 30% of the total bonus as detailed in the retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against policy report on page 53. them will be seen in next years Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the The measures for the Core awards made under the Performance performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include Share plan will be as disclosed in the policy table on page 54.
Targets for the Core awards made during 2014 15 will be measured in the final year of the three year period the 2016 17 financial year and are as follows: TSR relative to FTSE 250 EPS in the year ending over 3 financial years ending Percentage of each 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 element that vests Below threshold Less than 20.3p Less than median 0% Threshold 20.3p Median 25% Between threshold and stretch 20.3p to 28.3p Between median and upper 25% to 100% on a straight quartile line basis Stretch 28.3p or higher Upper quartile or higher 100% Payouts for performance between Threshold and Stretch calculated on a straight line basis Targets for the Multiplier awards are as disclosed in the Shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting Policy Report.
At last years Annual General Meeting held on 16 July 2013, the directors remuneration report received the following votes from Non-executive director 2014 remuneration shareholders: Set out in the table below are the fees paid for the year ended 31 March 2014 and proposed fees for the year ended Votes cast in favour 281,311,364 99.05% 31 March 2015.
Votes cast against 2,705,677 0.95% As from As from Total votes cast 284,017,041 100% 1 April 2014 1 April 2013 % increase Director m m m Abstentions 3,118,845 1 Chairman 175,000 175,000 0% Approval Non-executive This report was approved by the Board on 19 May 2014 and director 45,000 41,000 10% signed on its behalf by Senior Independent director fee 5,000 3,000 67% Ian Much Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 6,000 67% Remuneration Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 6,000 67% 1 The fee is fixed for the first three years of his appointment.
2 During the year, a benchmarking exercise was carried out by NBS in relation to non-executive director fees.
It found that current fees were below median against similarly sized companies and also the sector comparator.
As a result of this, and given the scale of recent activity the material time commitment required of the non-executive directors, the fees were adjusted to bring them in line with fees of non-executives in similar sized companies.
