DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT During 2013 we reviewed the remuneration structure which had This report has been prepared on behalf of and served the business well over many years.
Having done so, we made has been approved by the Board.
It complies a number of changes to ensure the remuneration framework with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized continued to support the strategic direction of the business and further comply with good practice, while addressing various matters Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports previously raised by shareholder representative bodies.
The principal Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations, change related to the introduction of a revised Long Term Incentive the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Plan LTIP to be known as the 2014 LTIP.
The policy report that describes the individual elements of remuneration was approved at Conduct Authority Listing Rules and takes into the 2014 AGM for a period of three years until April 2017.
No changes account the accompanying Directors Remuneration to the policy are being proposed for 2015.
However for ease of Reporting Guidance and the relevant policies of reference we have included the policy report once again in the 2014 Annual Report although, in accordance with the 2013 regulations, shareholder representative bodies.
This report we will only be inviting shareholders to approve the Annual report is presented in three main sections: an annual on remuneration for 2014 at the 2015 AGM.
statement from the Chairman of the Committee: the The 2014 LTIP was also approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM Directors remuneration policy report as approved for a 10 year period.
Executive share options and performance shares by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting were awarded using this plan in August and October respectively.
AGM : and the Annual report on remuneration for The 2014 LTIP provides a clawback facility under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered in certain 2014.
The report also contains information relating circumstances.
A clawback provision is already in place for the to the directors remuneration for 2015 and additional annual bonus in relation to unvested shares under the Deferred information on directors share interests.
Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS.
During the year the Committee reviewed the appropriateness STATEMENT FROM PETER JOHNSON, of the performance conditions relating to the options and awards CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE to be granted under the 2014 LTIP.
Taking due consideration of the Our strategic focus places great importance on continuing to grow prevailing economic and market conditions, the Committee decided organically and by acquisition in support of one of Bunzls main that the performance conditions as published in the Annual report objectives, which is to build shareholder value, and this has once on remuneration for 2013 were still suitably stretching for the again been demonstrated in 2014.
The remuneration framework 2014 grant of options and performance share awards.
Further the is designed to reinforce the link between pay and performance Committee reviewed the key performance indicators KPIs for and reward senior executives for delivering superior shareholder the 2014 annual bonus and it was agreed that adjusted earnings per returns.
The Committee considers that the current remuneration share and return on average operating capital performance for the arrangements are simple and transparent for both employees and year relative to a target level of return were still appropriate and that shareholders and that performance is assessed against measures the target levels were stretching without encouraging inappropriate and targets that are relevant to Bunzls business and are stretching, levels of risk.
The Committee considers that the out-turn of our incentive plans, A significant amount of Bunzls success can be attributed to the appropriately reflects Bunzls performance in 2014.
For example, strong leadership of the management team.
Bunzl is an international for the Chief Executive the annual bonus was 85% of the maximum business providing outsourcing solutions and value-added opportunity, which equated to 98% of his annual salary and 100% distribution across the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
It is of executive share options and 89% of performance shares vested.
important that key individuals are retained and that we can attract During 2014, Bunzls total shareholder return TSR performance new talent into the business by recruitment or acquisition.
The continued to rise against a flat performance by the FTSE Support competitiveness of the remuneration package we offer is therefore Services sector and the share price reached an all-time high.
The remuneration framework is structured in a way that allows us to compete for talent across multiple geographies while also The Committee has not exercised any discretion to adjust complying with UK corporate governance good practice.
performance targets as a result of events that have taken place during the year.
Peter Johnson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2015 52 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The out-turn of our incentive plans in 2014 appropriately reflects our performance while the targets set are sufficiently stretching without encouraging inappropriate levels of risk.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Bunzl continues to pursue its well defined strategy of developing the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in which we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and new geographies and continuously improving the efficiency of our operations.
Bunzls business model relies on excellent customer and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience of its directors and employees.
The Companys remuneration policy supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a competitive level while ensuring that additional reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period.
This policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and TSR.
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk within the business.
In addition the Committee has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters.
The following table summarises the policy for the remuneration of executive directors approved at and effective from the 2014 AGM which is binding until the AGM to be held in 2017.
Salary Purpose recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues Operation paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year reviewed annually, normally in December with any changes usually effective from January taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence pensionable Maximum salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and potential value performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major market movement.
The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2014 and 2015 are on pages 63 and 69 respectively Performance individual performance in the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to metrics environmental, social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus Purpose incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets retain high performing employees align with shareholders interests Operation annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year at the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measures performance targets, on a pro rata basis any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares with the shares normally deferred for three years under the DASBS a clawback facility is in operation by which part or the full deferred bonus award may be reduced or cancelled to the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the bonus was originally determined non-pensionable the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award Maximum potential value of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 65% of salary with a threshold award of 31% of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary Performance the principal measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys earnings per metrics share adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance eps against the relevant target the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according to the Companys performance against the target return on average operating capital RAOC, referred to as the RAOC modifier the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of Bunzls KPIs.
The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC modifier ensures the continued focus on working capital management together with profit growth bonus awards are at the Committees discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax pbit and working capital employed in the business area for which he has direct responsibility North America.
The additional measures relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management group in North America the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus is capped.
These performance metrics are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive 54 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Long term incentives Purpose incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR align with shareholders interests recruit and retain senior employees Operation discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject to performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service.
There is no opportunity to retest a clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the vesting was determined all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules Maximum Executive share options maximum annual award of 250% of salary potential value normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance shares maximum annual award of 150% of salary normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 112.5% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period Performance metrics Executive share options eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below the threshold target 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 66 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 67 Performance shares TSR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance TSR or the maximum target eps for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 66 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 67 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All employee share plans Purpose encourage employees including the executive directors to build a shareholding through the operation of all employee share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave Scheme in the UK and the Internal Revenue Service IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP in the US Operation the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter a savings contract, over a period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM Maximum in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of either three or five years currently 250 per month and rising to 500 per month for invitations to be made in 2015 potential value and thereafter in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits currently up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower service conditions apply Performance metrics Retirement benefits Purpose provision of competitive retirement benefits retain executive directors Operation all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and or a pension allowance legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly Maximum company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped potential value at 30% of annual salary benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional pensionable salary cap from 6 April 2015 149,400 per annum Performance Not applicable metrics 56 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Other benefits Purpose provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors Operation benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, disability and medical and in some jurisdictions club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an international relocation might also include fees for childrens schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional advice etc Maximum the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances.
For potential value example the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the family is based Not applicable Performance metrics Shareholding requirement Purpose strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders Operation executives will be normally expected to retain shares through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP until they attain the required holding.
Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve the required shareholding.
It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding Maximum retain shareholdings worth equal to at least 200% of annual salary.
This does not include any holdings of deferred potential value shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares Performance Not applicable metrics Performance measures and targets The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are: eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP.
The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes.
The use of eps aligns the executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, one of the executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined by additional measures relating to pbit and working capital which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running.
RAOC is another of Bunzls KPIs.
The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on working capital and profit growth by rewarding efficient profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital at the end of the period.
Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
The Committee does not feel that the introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Companys annual budgeting process, the economic environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Changes to the remuneration policy A number of changes to the Companys remuneration policy were implemented following the 2014 AGM in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders to bring the arrangements in line with best practice.
No changes to this remuneration policy are proposed for 2015.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance related pay such as bonus and long term incentives.
Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive pay, is greater for the executive directors.
This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited responsibility.
As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees currently 21 people are granted both executive share option and performance share awards.
Approximately 300 senior managers are granted executive share option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for management in the Companys decentralised organisation structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates.
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role.
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost-effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership, an all employee share plan is offered.
Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, US and UK.
In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations.
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based, as social provision and market norms differ, and the function and seniority of the relevant role.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within the Group.
In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2015 employees across the Group have received, on average, salary increases in the range of 1.5% 3.0%, dependent on geographical location with the exception being those employees based in Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases are much higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy set out in this part of the report.
Recruitment of executive directors approach to remuneration For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion.
The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individuals current remuneration package and location.
In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
To ensure consistency across the Board, the expected components of the package would be in line with the remuneration policy as set out on pages 53 to 57.
In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility on the recruitment of an executive director, the Committee has set the maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 427.5% of annual salary.
This covers the maximum annual bonus, including the deferred annual share bonus award, and the maximum face value of any long term incentive awards.
For an external appointment, the Committee may consider offering additional cash and or share based elements to the remuneration package when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such elements, as appropriate, would be made under Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and take account of any remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment.
Executive directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract Michael Roney 1 September 2005 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 58 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Policy on payment for departure from office On termination of an executive directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders: Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability Departure on of pay or termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms Base salary, Paid for the proportion of Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any pension and the notice period worked untaken holidays pro rated to such date.
In the case of benefits and any untaken holidays ill health, a payment in lieu of notice may be made and, pro rated to the leaving date according to the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period Annual bonus Cessation of employment Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after cash during a bonus year will the year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date normally result in no cash will result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and bonus being paid pro rated for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and performance achieved Annual bonus Unvested deferred shares In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred will lapse shares will be transferred to the estate as soon as deferred shares possible after death.
In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested deferred shares will be transferred to the individual on a date determined Treatment will normally by the Committee fall between the two treatments described in Executive share Unvested executive share Tax advantaged options will vest in full on the cessation the previous columns, options options will lapse of employment and be exercisable for the following subject to the discretion 12 months after which any unexercised options will lapse of the Committee and the terms of any termination Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested agreement non-tax advantaged share options will normally be retained by the individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Performance Unvested performance Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested shares will lapse performance shares will normally be retained by the shares individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Options under As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations Sharesave Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a For share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full on the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months following which any unexercised options will lapse.
b The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e. g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans: determining the timing of grants and or payments: determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : and under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Remuneration overview The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below.
Michael Roney 78% 22% Threshold performance Total 1,207,327 37% 11% 26% 26% Target performance Total 2,509,652 24% 7% 28% 41% Stretch performance Total 3,858,077 Brian May 76% 24% Threshold performance Total 703,442 38% 12% 26% 24% Target performance Total 1,407,705 25% 8% 28% 39% Stretch performance Total 2,129,992 Patrick Larmon 98% 2% Threshold performance Total 657,992 42% 1% 29% 28% Target performance Total 1,516,616 27% 1% 29% 43% Stretch performance Total 2,365,822 Salary and benefits Pension Bonus Cash DASBS LTIP Notes a Salary represents annual salary for 2015.
Patrick Larmons salary is paid in US dollars but has been translated at the exchange rate of 1: US$1.65.
Benefits such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance are as shown on page 63. b Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2014 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of Company contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan and Retirement Savings Benefit the RSB.
No further contributions were made through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page 65.
Although there has been no change to the remuneration policy related to Patrick Larmon, the effect of the cessation of payments to the SERA has been to alter the relevant percentages of his remuneration package shown above.
c Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
60 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Legacy arrangements The Remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and, by doing so, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports or internally promoted future directors in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration report as they arise.
Policy of executive directors external appointments With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of last Length of Date of re-appointment service as at appointment at AGM 2015 AGM Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 16 April 2014 5 years 3 months Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 16 April 2014 9 years 3 months David Sleath 1 September 2007 16 April 2014 7 years 7 months Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 16 April 2014 4 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 16 April 2014 2 years 3 months Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 16 April 2014 2 years Notes a Peter Johnson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
b Vanda Murray was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 February 2015.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors the NEDs Purpose provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the implementation of the Companys strategy Operation determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with the roles annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans.
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed the NEDs fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially, the last date being February 2014 the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration: the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee Maximum determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of Association potential value Performance not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration metrics Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to its policy.
In 2013 consultation was conducted with 19 major shareholders and two shareholder representative bodies with regard to the proposed changes to the remuneration policy and the introduction of a new long term incentive plan.
This policy and the 2014 LTIP were approved at the 2014 AGM.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR 2014 Committee remit and membership The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2014: Date of Meetings appointment to eligible Meetings the Committee to attend attendance Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 3 3 David Sleath 5 December 2007 3 3 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 3 3 Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 3 3 Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 3 3 Notes a Peter Johnson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
b Vanda Murray was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 February 2015 and will assume the role of Chair of the Committee upon Peter Johnsons retirement.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources.
No director plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from PwC and New Bridge Street.
PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels.
New Bridge Street drafted the rules of the 2014 LTIP and provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the 2004 LTIP had been satisfied.
The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: 13,500 PwC and 9,750 New Bridge Street for such work undertaken in 2014.
In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC, who were appointed from May 2014 as the Companys external auditors, also provide the Company with some tax related and pre-acquisition due diligence services and New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee.
The Committee remains satisfied that the provision of these other services does not in any way compromise the independence of their advisers.
Statement of voting at the 2014 AGM Last year the remuneration policy received a 97.79% shareholder vote in favour, the remuneration report received a 97.81% shareholder vote in favour and the 2014 LTIP received a 96.30% shareholder vote in favour as set out below: Votes cast Votes For % of shares voted Votes Against % of shares voted Votes Withheld Remuneration policy 264,349,297 258,510,901 97.79 5,838,396 2.21 600,455 Remuneration report 264,348,918 258,552,082 97.81 5,796,836 2.19 600,834 2014 LTIP 264,349,875 254,558,125 96.30 9,791,750 3.70 593,655 Notes a The votes For include votes given at the Company Chairmans discretion.
b A vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of the votes cast.
The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS.
Shares relating to the 2013 deferred bonus were awarded in 2014 as shown in the table on page 70 and the shares relating to the 2014 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2015. b Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families.
In addition to these benefits Patrick Larmons club fees are paid by the Company.
c The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in 2011 and 2012.
See page 64 for details of the performance conditions applicable and for the valuation method applied to such awards.
Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described on page 56. d The figures shown in relation to 2013 for the LTIP have been restated from those figures shown in the 2013 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the relevant grant price and the value of the LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting on 3 March 2014 and 2 September 2014 at the closing mid-market share price of 1,543p and 1,664p respectively.
Consequently the 2013 total figures have also been restated to reflect the change in the LTIP valuations.
e The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.65 in respect of 2014 and 1: US$1.56 in respect of 2013. f There were no payments made to former directors during the year and no payments were, or are due to be, made in respect of loss of office.
g In addition to the remuneration paid to directors in 2013 shown above, Ulrich Wolters, who retired as non-executive director during the year, received remuneration of 21,000 in respect of the period 1 January 2013 to 30 April 2013, the date of his retirement.
Executive directors annual salary audited information Executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary from Salary from Increase in salary 1 January 1 January 2013 to 2014 2014 2013 % Michael Roney 895,000 870,000 2.9 Brian May 500,000 480,000 4.2 Patrick Larmon US$1,014,000 US$989,000 2.5 Executive directors salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 and the increases awarded are shown on page 69.
Executive directors external appointments Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc until 23 July 2014 and retained fees of 38,285 and of BrownForman Corporation from 27 March 2014 and retained fees of US$19,667 and was awarded 2,490 deferred stock units which will be paid to him upon completion of his service subject to the terms of the Deferred Stock Unit programme for non-employee directors.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2014 and retained fees of 75,350.
Patrick Larmon does not hold any such appointments.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive directors fees audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years and the last review was in 2014.
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees January 2014 in 2013 2013 to 2014 % Chairmans fee 325,000 310,000 4.8 Non-executive director fee 64,500 63,000 2.4 Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7 Remuneration Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7 The non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 and the increases awarded are shown on page 70.
Performance against annual bonus targets audited information The annual bonus plan and DASBS operate as set out in the policy section on page 54.
All of Michael Roneys and Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential in 2014 related to the growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was modified by the achievement of the Groups RAOC relative to budget.
This resulted in a bonus payment between the target and maximum bonus opportunity.
Eps performance was 5% above target and RAOC was 3% above target.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related to the pbit performance of North America which was modified by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set.
Pbit performance for North America resulted in a bonus payment 1.6% below target and the return on average operating capital slightly exceeded target as a result of which the bonus related to North Americas performance was increased by 1.1%.
Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 % % % % % Michael Roney 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 Brian May 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 Patrick Larmon 69.7 85.3 85.9 110.0 76.7 The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2014 and 2013 are included in the table on page 63.
LTIP grants awards with performance periods ending in 2014 audited information Executive share options LTIP Part A Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 1 March 2015 and 31 August 2015.
The Committee assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions.
Eps restated on adoption of IAS 19 revised 2011 growth was 27.52% for the three years ended 31 December 2014 which compared to an increase in RPI of 7.56% over the same period.
Since the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 16.83% over the period, all of the options will vest.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 63 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the grant price and the average of the Companys closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2014 1,702p.
Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 8 April 2011 and 11 October 2011 with the three year performance periods being completed on 31 March 2014 and 30 September 2014 respectively.
The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions.
The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance condition based on eps growth relative to RPI.
Eps growth was 38.02% for the three years ended 31 December 2013 compared to an increase in RPI of 10.95% over the same period.
A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 23.44% over the period and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 44.05%.
As a result of the Companys actual growth in eps over the period, 78.07% of this part of the awards vested 39.04% of the full awards.
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Companys TSR performance against the relevant comparator group.
For the April 2011 award, the Company ranked first out of the remaining 36 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 100% of this part of the award vested 50% of the full award for performance above the upper quartile.
For the October 2011 award, the Company ranked seventh out of the remaining 34 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 100% of this part of the award vested 50% of the full award for performance above upper quartile.
Accordingly 89.04% of the total performance shares awarded in April and October 2011 vested in April and October 2014 respectively.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 63 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 8 April 2014 and 13 October 2014, which were 1,612p and 1,546p respectively.
64 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Total pension entitlements audited information Defined benefit pension DB entitlements Value of cash Additional allowance including Pension value Pension any company DC plans of pension value in the and or 401k Total normal on early year from contributions pension retirement retirement DB scheme in 2014 2014 age Michael Roney 268,500 268,500 Brian May 60 64,995 106,620 171,615 Patrick Larmon 65 13,152 13,152 Notes a Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan BPP and his contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap notionally 145,800 for tax year 2014 2015 and 141,000 for tax year 2013 2014 is matched by the Company.
During 2014 such contributions amounted to 7,230 2013: 7,005 and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance.
b B rian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above.
The employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary.
c In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued.
Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2014 of 6,061 2013: 6,410. e In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA, which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
In 2013 the Company paid all necessary expenses, due to changes in assumptions and other factors outside of the Companys control such as change in market conditions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to 47,268 2013: 47,490.
In 2007, this SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members benefits were frozen.
A new defined contribution SERA DC SERA was put in place for Patrick Larmon and the final contribution of 185,897 was paid to the DC SERA in 2013. f Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2014 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 7,091 2013: 7,356.
LTIP grant policy Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior executives.
Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of announcement of the Companys results.
Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year.
In 2014 executive share options were granted in February and performance share awards were granted in April under the 2004 LTIP in accordance with the previous grant policy and performance conditions as detailed on pages 57 and 66 respectively.
Executive share options were also granted in August and performance share awards were granted in October under the 2014 LTIP in accordance with the policy and performance conditions as approved at the 2014 AGM as detailed on pages 57 and 67 respectively.
Options were awarded under the 2004 LTIP Part A on 27 February 2014 and the 2014 LTIP Part A on 29 August 2014 at a value of 1,566p and 1,641p per share respectively.
Performance shares were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part B on 4 April 2014 and the 2014 LTIP on 6 October 2014 at a value of 1,606p and 1,597p per share respectively.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance conditions for 2014 awards The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2004 LTIP in February and April 2014 were as detailed below.
Executive share options LTIP Part A Executive share option awards may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years First 150% of salary 9.3% Next 75% of salary 12.5% Next 75% of salary 19.1% Performance share awards LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Total margin over UK inflation RPI after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 12.5% Nil 12.5% 25% Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%100% 33.1% or above 100% The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
The comparator group consists of at least 40 UK based companies excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors that have substantial operations overseas and have at 30 September prior to the grant of the awards similar levels of revenue, profit and market capitalisation as Bunzl.
The applicable comparator group for the 2004 LTIP Part B awards in April 2014 are shown below.
Aggreko Hays Reckitt Benckiser Group Ashstead Group IMI Rexam Arm Holdings Inchcape SABMiller Burberry Group Informa SIG Carnival Corporation Inmarsat Smith & Nephew Cobham Intercontinental Hotels Group Smiths Group Computacenter International Consolidated Airlines Group Spectris Croda International Intertek Group Tate & Lyle Diageo Johnson Matthey Thomas Cook Group Dixons Retail Meggitt Vesuvius Easyjet Melrose Weir Group Experian Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Wolseley G4S Mondi WPP GKN Pearson These performance share awards vest in line with the following vesting schedule: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% Awards granted in 2012 and 2013 were subject to the same performance conditions as described above.
66 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP to the Companys executive directors, Executive Committee members and selected key employees in August and October 2014 were as detailed below.
Executive options LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable Below 5% Nil 5% 25% Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%100% 8% or above 100% Performance share awards LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 6% Nil 6% 25% Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%100% 12% or above 100% The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
These performance share awards may vest based on the following sliding scale: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% The applicable comparator group for the October 2014 awards were those companies in the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
Shareholder dilution In accordance with The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in a rolling 10 year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury, 5% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation to satisfy awards under executive discretionary plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 56.
Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Scheme.
Awards under the LTIP of executive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Cumulative options and performance shares granted as a percentage of issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 Limit on awards including those held in treasury 10% in any rolling 10 year period 2.0% 5% in any rolling 10 year period executive discretionary plans 1.2% BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information As at 31 December 2014, all executive directors and their connected persons owned shares outright at a level exceeding their required shareholding of 200% of their annual salary.
Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2014 at the closing mid-market price 1,764p Michael Roney 615% Brian May 371% Patrick Larmon 348% Interests in shares and share options The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Companys ordinary shares and share options at 31 December 2014 were: Total Shares Options LTIP Part A and Sharesave interests held Unvested Unvested and subject and subject to Unvested Unvested to holding performance and subject to subject to Vested Owned period conditions performance continued but not outright DASBS LTIP Part B conditions employment exercised Michael Roney 312,263 103,272 228,600 321,100 1,948 162,000 1,129,183 Brian May 105,240 57,081 119,500 167,500 1,197 450,518 Patrick Larmon 121,216 70,397 135,900 191,000 132,000 650,513 Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 Peter Johnson 6,630 6,630 David Sleath 4,000 4,000 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Meinie Oldersma 2,500 2,500 400 Performance graph and table Bunzl Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups FTSE 350 support services 350 Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a 300 hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 250 market index over a six year period.
The Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 350 Support Services Sector over a six year period 200 commencing on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
150 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: Thomson Reuters datastream Chief Executives pay in last six years audited information The table below summarises the Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration, as shown on page 63, annual bonus and long term incentive payout as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2014 and the previous five years.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Single total figure of remuneration 000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,387.6 4,617.8 Annual variable element award rates against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91% 85% LTIP Part A options 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Long term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity LTIP Part B performance shares 84% 65% 29% 45% 62% 89% Note The single total figure of remuneration in relation to 2013 has been restated from the figure shown in the 2013 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the grant price and the value of the relevant LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting as detailed in Note d to the table of the single total figure of remuneration 2014 on page 63.
68 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management population.
This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have the Groups largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package.
Employees from businesses acquired by Bunzl in 2014 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
UK and US Chief Executive management population Percentage change Percentage change 2014 vs 2013 2014 vs 2013 Salary 3% 4% Benefits 1% 6% Bonus 3 % 3 % Notes a US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year.
b Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2014 and 2013 as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 107 and 102 respectively.
million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 Percentage change Overall expenditure on pay 534.0 509.4 5% Dividend paid in the year 105.6 91.8 15% Notes a Overall expenditure on pay excludes employers social security costs.
b Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial years interim and final dividends.
2015 REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION The remuneration policy was implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM and continues to apply in 2015 as follows: Salary The salary increases for the executive directors for 2015, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees in the Group as discussed on page 58, are as follows: Increase in salary Salary from Salary from 2014 to 2015 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 % Michael Roney 922,000 895,000 3.0 Brian May 515,000 500,000 3.0 Patrick Larmon US$1,036,000 US$1,014,000 2.2 2015 bonus targets The structure for Michael Roneys, Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons annual bonus for 2015 is described on page 54.
The threshold for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the actual result achieved in 2014 on a constant exchange rate basis.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
As in previous years, the specific performance points will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance measures for long term incentives to be awarded in 2015 Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in 2015 will be subject to the same performance conditions as those executive share options and performance share awards granted in August and October 2014 respectively as detailed on page 67.
Non-executive directors fees for 2015 audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years and as a result no review of the fee took place in 2015.
The non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015.
The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees 1 January 2015 in 2014 2014 to 2015 % Chairmans fee 325,000 325,000 Non-executive director basic fee 66,000 64,500 2.3 Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1 Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS INTERESTS Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2014 The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the DASBS are set out in the table below.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 54.
No shares lapsed during the year.
70 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP.
Details of the relevant performance conditions of the LTIP are set out on pages 66 and 67.
In addition Michael Roney exercised share options on 15 May 2014 in respect of 89,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 676.5p, at a market price of 1,689.5p resulting in a gain of 906,635.
Michael Roney also exercised share options on 21 November 2014 in respect of 81,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 746p, at a market price of approximately 1,755p resulting in a gain of 817,451: ii Brian May on 6 June 2014 in respect of 44,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 724.5p, at a market price of approximately 1,683p resulting in a gain of 426,647.
In addition Brian May exercised share options on 25 November 2014 in respect of 39,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 812.5p, at a market price of approximately 1,767p resulting in a gain of 377,065: and iii Patrick Larmon on 10 March 2014 in respect of 56,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 564p, at a market price of 1,595p resulting in a gain of 582,515.
In addition Patrick Larmon exercised share options on 6 May 2014 in respect of 28,516 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p, at a market price of approximately 1,670p resulting in a gain of 309,409.
Patrick Larmon also exercised share options on 21 October 2014 in respect of 25,984 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p, at a market price of approximately 1,648p resulting in a gain of 276,169 and on 2 December 2014 in respect of 48,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 676.5p, at a market price of approximately 1,776p resulting in a gain of 533,247. b The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2014 was 1,764p and the range during 2014 was 1,367p to 1,820p.
c The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2013 under the 2004 LTIP Part A. d Executive share options granted in February 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
b Performance share awards granted in April 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part B.
Performance share awards granted in October 2014 have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part B.
All employees share scheme Sharesave Scheme The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out on page 56.
