Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 March 2014.
This is the first year inwhich Burberry must comply with the new legislation on the disclosure of directors remuneration and shareholders will, for the first time, have a binding vote on our remuneration policy.
I hope that you find this report clear and comprehensive and I look forward to hearing your feedback on the information presented.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee aims to ensure that directors and senior executives remuneration is internationally competitive, taking into account the global markets in which Burberry operates and from which it recruits, soas toattract and retain high-calibre individuals, and is also strongly aligned to sustainable long-term performance delivering value to our shareholders.
The Groups remuneration policy, underpinned by these principles, is set out onpages90 to 97 ofthis report.
There has been significant change to Burberrys executive team during 2013 14.
Christopher Bailey has been appointed the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer CC & CEO of Burberry following Angela Ahrendts stepping down and moving toApple after an impressive eight years as Chief Executive Officer.
Carol Fairweather became Chief Financial Officer CFO and has performed strongly in that role after Stacey Cartwright stepped down.
John Smith is now well established as the Groups Chief Operating Officer COO.
In 2013 14, Burberry grew revenue 17%, adjusted profit before tax Adjusted PBT 8% and reported profit before tax 27%ina challenging global environment.
Managements consistent execution of key strategies and dynamic response to challenges and opportunities delivered this strong performance.
Against this backdrop, the annual bonus paid out at 70% ofmaximum, as Adjusted PBT for the year was between the target and maximum levels set by the Committee.
Underlying growth in Adjusted PBT over the last three years has been 14.2% per annum and so the Co-Investment Plan awards granted in 2011 will vest in full.
The Committee has reviewed the executive remuneration arrangements during the year following the changes to the executive team and to address the expiry of our long-term share incentive plans.
The Committees review took account of Burberrys strategic plan, the performance and growth of the Group, the growth and outlook in the global luxury goods sector and global market practice.
In addition, the Committee has given careful consideration to shareholder preferences for alignment of incentives with business strategy, the adoption of forfeiture provisions on variable pay and higher shareholding requirements.
The Committee consulted with a number of our leading institutional shareholders and investor advisory bodies on the proposed changes to remuneration arrangements.
The initial proposals were refined in light of the constructive feedback received and are both summarised below and reflected in our future remuneration policy.
88 Board and Governance New Executive Share Plan We plan to simplify the long-term share incentive arrangements by introducing a single new Executive Share Plan ESP toreplace the existing Co-Investment Plan and Restricted Share Plan which have worked well in promoting sustainable long-term growth and have enabled us to recruit and largely retain a world-class management team.
The details of the proposed ESP are included in our remuneration policy, but highlighted below are the key features of the plan.
Annual awards of shares of up to 400% of salary with a plan maximum of 600% of salary to be used in exceptional circumstances only, with vesting subject to performance.
This is consistent with the current share plans.
Awards of shares would primarily vest based on 1 growth in adjusted profit, 2 a measure to incentivise the efficient useof capital and 3 revenue growth, each of which would be measured over three years, consistent with the current share plans.
However, such financial performance will also be judged against the execution of Burberrys strategy to ensure long-term sustainable growth.
50% of awards would vest after the three-year performance period and 50% would vest after a further one-year holdingperiod.
To ensure continued alignment of executive interests with those of shareholders, the Committee will strengthen requirements under the Groups executive shareholding policy.
Executive directors will continue to be required to retain50% of any share award that vests net of tax until a specific holding is achieved.
This holding will be increased from 1.5 times to 2 times salary for executive directors with the exception of the CC & CEO, who will be required to hold at least 500,000 shares as explained in more detail below.
The ESP will include a malus provision, whereby unvested shares or awards may be forfeited in whole or in part intheevent of a material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results.
Remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO We set out on page 104 the details of Christopher Baileys remuneration in his new role of CC & CEO.
Aside from a one-off performance-based share award for taking on the CEO responsibility, there has been no increase to ChristopherBaileys remuneration compared to that which he received in his previous role as Chief Creative Officer CCO.
The key elements of hisremuneration going forward are as follows, other elements being in line with those fortheother executive directors.
Annual salary of 1,100,000 plus an annual allowance of 440,000.
As part of his appointment as CC & CEO a one-off, performance based grant of 500,000 shares.
A requirement to retain 50% of any share award that vests net of tax until a holding of 500,000 shares is achieved.
TheCommittee has determined this level of holding in light of the one-off award of shares granted on appointment.
Finally, we set out on page 104 details of the final payments made or to be made to Angela Ahrendts on her departure fromBurberry.
As disclosed on our website when Angela stepped down on 30 April 2014, the payments made to Angela were inlinewiththose set out in her service agreement, outstanding share awards reflected her contractual entitlement andshedidnotreceive any payment relating to her departure from the Company.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders on any key changes to executive remuneration arrangements, including the targets that will be set for the first awards under the new ESP, and looks forward to gaining your support on both sections of this report when it is put to the vote at the Annual General Meeting in July 2014.
Ian Carter Chairman, Remuneration Committee 89 Board and Governance Summary contents The remuneration report is set out in the following sections: 1.
Further information on remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO 6.
Further information on remuneration for Angela Ahrendts 7.
Five-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration 1.
Directors remuneration policy Burberrys directors remuneration policy remuneration policy as set out in this report will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 11 July 2014.
It is the Committees intention that the remuneration policy will legally take effect from thedate of the 2014 AGM.
The remuneration policy is largely consistent withprevious years, aside from the adoption of the new Executive Share Plan subject to shareholders approval at the 2014AGM.
TheCommittee intends thatthis remuneration policy should apply until the 2017 AGM.
The Committee believes the Groups remuneration should be strongly linked to performance and internationally competitive, taking into account the global markets in which it operates and from which it recruits.
The remuneration policy is based on the following principles.
Linked to the success and strategy of the business: the overall remuneration framework should provide a balance between key short-term and long-term business objectives.
Variable pay for executive directors includes 1 an annual cash bonus based on the financial performance of Burberry currently adjusted profit before tax as per the audited income statement Adjusted PBT is the sole performance measure, and 2 long-term share-based incentives linked primarily tothe financial performance of the Company but having regard to the delivery of objectives set in accordance with the Companys long-term strategic themes.
Shareholder value: remuneration should provide close alignment with long-term value creation for shareholders through the selection of appropriate performance measures and targets, be tied to the future success of the Company, emphasise variable pay and deliver a significant proportion of remuneration in shares, some of which are expected to be retained inaccordance with the Groups executive shareholding policy.
Competitive in the global talent market: total remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain exceptional talent within the global luxury goods and digital sectors.
Total remuneration for executive directors and other senior executives is therefore benchmarked against Burberrys main global competitors for talent and comparable UK companies.
The Committee recognises that, for each executive, the relative importance of each of these reference groups may be different depending on the skills and experience required to undertake the specific role.
Benefits are based on competitive market practice for each executive depending on individual circumstances.
Directors remuneration policy effective from 11 July 2014 Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation and link to performance Executive directors Base salary Maximum annual increase per individual executive Annual increases are normally in line with the To recognise the director : 15% of salary.
averageincrease for all employees and below responsibilities, themaximum shown.
experience and ability of Salary levels and increases for executive directors are our talent in a competitive setwithin the same framework and ranges as those global environment, forallother employees, taking into account individual keeping our people performance and overall contribution to the business focused on, and during the year, cost to the Company and the external passionate about, economic climate.
Salaries are benchmarked annually against global companies of similar size and or global reach within relevant sectors.
Depending on the role, this comprises companies in the luxury goods sector and or companies with high-profile global brands particularly in the digital sector, and to a lesser extent comparable UK companies and or companies with a high growth profile.
Salaries are reviewed, although not necessarily increased, annually.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
The Committee retains the ability to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, and or other matters relating to the role or incumbent.
Inthese situations the Committee reserves the discretion to make annual increases above the maximum increaseshown.
Annual bonus Maximum awards are: The Committee reviews the performance measure To reward executive annually to ensure it remains appropriate and isaligned 225% of salary directors for achieving with Burberrys strategy.
Performance measure s : annual financial targets Adjusted profit will be the primary measure used by linked to the strategic 100% linked to adjusted profit performance management and the Committee believes strong plan agreed by Percentage of maximum bonus payable at each level performance in adjusted profit is key to delivering theBoard.
Ultimately, the successful implementation of the key strategic themes is reflected 25% at threshold inthe adjusted profit.
50% at target Targets are set before the start of each year by reference 100% at maximum to budget, the strategic plan, long-term financial goals, latest projections for the relevant year and broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its competitors.
Targets will be disclosed retrospectively following completion of the relevant financial year, provided theyarenot deemed to be commercially sensitive.
50% of bonus will be deferred in shares for three years until executive shareholding guidelines are met.
Use of judgement: The Committee may determine thatitis appropriate to adjust down or up the bonus outcome.
This may take into account factors such as misalignment of adjusted profit performance with other financial and operational measures of performance or targets no longer being appropriate.
It is anticipated that any adjustment would be infrequent and in exceptional circumstances only.
Details of any applications of judgement would be disclosed at the time in the relevant remuneration report.
91 Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation and link to performance Burberry Executive Maximum awards are: Subject to the ESP being approved at the 2014 AGM, Share Plan ESP thefirst awards will be made in 2015.
400% of salary in normal circumstances proposed and subject Targets for the measures will be calibrated ahead of each 600% of salary in exceptional circumstances, to shareholder annual grant by reference to the latest strategic plan, tobedetermined at the Committees discretion approval at 2014 AGM long-term financial goals, latest three-year projections Performance measures for executive directors to To focus executives andbroker earnings estimates for Burberry and its bemeasured over three years: on, and reward them for, competitors.
The threshold targets will becalibrated to be sustainable long-term 50% to 60% on growth in adjusted profit: of median difficulty, and themaximum targets will be of performance and upper quartile difficulty.
Targets will be disclosed ahead of 25% vesting for threshold performance successful execution of each annual grant.
100% vesting for maximum performance the Groups long-term Straight-line vesting in between Growth in adjusted profit has been chosen asit continues strategy.
to be the primary financial measure used byshareholders 20% to 25% on a measure to incentivise the efficient To help maintain the and management, and the Committee believes strong useofcapital: stability of the top growth in adjusted profit is key todelivering superior 25% vesting for threshold performance executive team, and shareholder returns.
The efficient useof capital measure 100% vesting for maximum performance alignexecutives isintended to incentivise management to combine Straight-line vesting in between interests with those superior growth in profit and revenue with attractive ofshareholders.
20% to 25% on revenue growth: returnon incremental investment but not to act as a disincentive to invest.
Burberrys strategy is designed 25% vesting for threshold performance todeliver both profit and revenue growth and therefore 100% vesting for maximum performance toalign with strategy a measure based on revenue growth Straight-line vesting in between is proposed as a transparent and quantifiable indicator Vesting: 50% after three years, remaining 50% after ofperformance.
Where the information is not deemed by the Committee tobe commercially sensitive, commentary will be providedon an annual basis outlining progress against thetargets and, for completed cycles, detail on the performance achieved.
A cash payment equivalent to the value of dividends which would have been received during the vesting period will be paid only in respect of shares that vest.
Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to grantawards of up to 600% of salary in exceptional circumstances and to vary the weighting applied to each measure withinthe ranges shown.
TheCommittee will consult with major shareholders inadvance of applying suchdiscretion to grant awards of up to 600%.
Use of judgement: The Committee will have the ability toadjust down or up the calculated level of vesting by reference to the quality of earnings and effective execution of strategy to ensure the growth delivered is long-term sustainable growth.
Details ofany adjustments would be disclosed in the relevant remuneration report.
Malus provision: Unvested shares or awards may beforfeited in whole or in part in the event of a materialmisstatement in the Companys audited financialstatements.
All-employee Sharesave: maximum savings amount of 6,000 per Burberry operates two all-employee share plans: shareplans annum, with which shares can be purchased with a The Sharesave Scheme offers eligible employees To encourage 20%discount.
including executive directors an opportunity to enter employeeshare Share Incentive Plan and International Freeshare Plan: intoa three or five-year savings contract to save a portion ownership at all levels.
awards with a value of up to 500 per annum.
oftheir salary which can be used to purchase Burberry shares, normally at the end of the savings contract, atupto a 20% discount to the market price at the date ofinvitation.
Awards of shares or a cash equivalent where the use of shares is not possible are made annually to all eligible employees under the UK Share Incentive Plan and International Freeshare Plans.
Discretion: The Committee reserves the right to increase the maxima to the extent that the change is made on the same basis for all employees participating in the plan.
Pensions Maximum company contribution: 30% of salary Executive directors participate in defined contribution To offer marketperannum arrangements.
Participants may elect to receive some or all of their entitlement as a cash allowance.
92 Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation and link to performance Other benefits The aggregate maximum value of all other benefits and Benefit levels are reviewed on an annual basis and the cost andallowances allowances is not anticipated to exceed 100,000 per to the Company of providing benefits can vary due to a To promote the individual per annum.
well-being of The Committee may agree that the Company will pay Benefits for executive directors may include, but are not employees, allowing additional allowances linked to relocation or international limited to: them to focus on assignment.
For the purposes of providing a maximum, private medical insurance thebusiness.
itis not expected that this would exceed 250,000 in any life assurance year for one individual.
long-term disability insurance For the CC & CEO only, the maximum value of all cash car allowance allowances is 440,000 per annum, as agreed in his previous role, prior to his appointment as an executive clothing allowance director.
He is also entitled to receive the non-cash employee discount benefits, as noted to the right: the value of these is not Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
expected to exceed 20,000 per annum.
Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to provide other benefits to the executive directors as deemed necessary.
Discretion to honour all prior commitments The Committee reserves the right to make any payments where the terms were agreed before this policy came into effect or prior to an individual being appointed a director of the Company.
These payments will include the satisfaction of share awards previously granted.
Outstanding CoMaximum awards subject to investment of bonus : It is the Committees intention that outstanding CIP Investment Plan awards should be allowed to pay out according to the 400% of salary that is a two-times match on a CIP awards prior terms on grant.
maximum bonus of 200% of salary commitments Further details are contained in the remuneration reportfor The performance measure that determines vesting To allow payment of the year of grant and will be included in the remuneration isgrowth in Adjusted PBT over three years.
awards made under report for the final year of the performance period.
Outstanding Maximum awards: It is the Committees intention that outstanding RSP RestrictedShare Plan awards should be allowed to pay out according to the 200% of salary RSP awards prior terms on grant.
One-off exceptional award of 300% of salary granted commitments Further details are contained in the remuneration reportfor to the CC & CEO in his previous role, prior to his To allow payment the year of grant and will be included in the remuneration appointment as an executive director ofoutstanding awards, report for the final year of the performance period.
made under Performance conditions for executive directors: Malus provision: None.
50% on growth in Adjusted PBT over three years 50% on relative TSR vs. sector peers over three years Outstanding 1 In Christopher Baileys prior role as Chief It is the Committees intention that outstanding exceptional share CreativeOfficer.
exceptional share awards should be allowed to awards prior payoutaccording to the terms on grant.
Maximum outstanding awards: commitments Further details will be included in the remuneration report 1,350,000 shares To allow payment of for the year when any awards are included in the single outstanding awards, Vesting conditions are continued employment over three, figure of total remuneration.
made under prior four and five years from date of grant In the case of the award on appointment to the CC & CEO, commitments to 2 On Christopher Baileys appointment to CC & CEO.
theCommittee will disclose further details on the key Christopher Bailey.
Maximum outstanding award: strategic performance objectives at the time they are considered not to be commercially sensitive and will 500,000 shares provide commentary on progress towards these Vesting conditions are key strategic performance objectives onanannual basis.
objectives, as determined by the Remuneration Committee at date of grant, and continued employment over three, four and five years from date of grant Notes: Adjustment of share awards: The number of shares subject to an award can be adjusted on a rights issue, special dividend, demerger or variation of capital or similar transaction.
Awards will vest on a takeover to the extent performance conditions are achieved and the number of shares will be generally prorated to reflect early vesting.
Alternatively, they can be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee can also allow full or partial vesting on a demerger, special dividend, distribution in specie or if the participant is relocated in circumstances which would give rise to unfavourable tax treatment.
Share awards can be satisfied by a cash payment equal to the value of shares the participant would otherwise have received.
In respect of our share plans, this table presents a summary of the key and relevant information for the Plan Rules.
It is the Committees intention that these plans will operate in accordance with the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
93 Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation Non-executive directors Chairman fees Maximum increase: 10% of fee per annum over period The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
To attract and retain a since last review date.
The fee level is reviewed at least every three years by high-calibre chairman theCommittee, with reference to UK market levels in byoffering a marketcompanies of a similar size, the time commitment and competitive fee.
The fee was last reviewed in July2013.
Non-executive Maximum increase for each type of fee per individual The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
The directors NEDs director : 10% of fee per annum over period since last Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees fees review date.
andthe Senior Independent Director are paid an To attract and retain additionalfee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
high-calibre nonFee levels are reviewed at least every three years by the executive directors Board, with reference to UK market levels in companies byoffering marketofa similar size.
The fees were last reviewed in July 2013. competitive fees.
Chairman and NEDs Non-executive directors receive a 2,000 attendance Attendance allowances are paid in cash.
other benefits allowance per meeting for attendance at Board Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
To enable the Chairman meetingsoutside of their country of residence except and non-executive theChairman and, as brand ambassadors, discount directors to undertake onBurberry products.
NEDs additional fees Maximum additional fee: 20,000 The Company has the discretion to pay an additional To allow flexibility to feetoa non-executive director should the Company provide additional fees require significant additional time commitment in ifrequired.
The Company currently has no intention to use thisdiscretion.
Policy on recruitment and promotion arrangements The Committee will pay new directors in accordance with the approved remuneration policy and all its elements as set outinthe table above.
The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new executive directors will therefore comprise basesalary, annual bonus, ESP award, pension, benefits and all employee share plans.
In addition, the recruitment policy below permits the Committee to take the following actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
For an internal appointment, any commitment made in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according toitsterms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked torelocation, as appropriate, and will meet expenses reimburse an executive against additional costs on appointment.
Inaddition, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked to repatriation on termination ofemployment.
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share based elements to take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer.
As far as possible and appropriate, such payments would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the relinquished remuneration.
If necessary, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share based elements to secure an appointment.
The Committee would determine the performance conditions and time horizons that would apply to such awards at the time.
Such awards would be limited to 600% of salary.
If necessary, the Committee may enter into a service contract with a longer initial notice period, reducing to 12 months orless on a rolling basis to secure the appointment of an executive from an environment where longer notice periods aremarket practice.
For internal appointments the terms and conditions of the individual employment prior to the appointment will remain in force unless the Committee otherwise decides and the individual agrees.
Supplementary information External directorships The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company andmayretain the fees payable from such an appointment.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found intheirbiographies on pages 66 and 67 and the associated fees are shown in the notes to the single figure of total remuneration tableon page 99.
Remuneration policy in the rest of the Company The remuneration arrangements for executive directors outlined in section 1.1. above are consistent with those for the othersenior executives, although quantum and award opportunities vary by executive level.
During its deliberations on executive remuneration, the Committee considers the reward framework for all employees worldwide, ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the executive remuneration policy.
Merit increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration.
All employees are eligible foran annual bonus based on performance and executive share plans are extended through the organisation to senior executives and high-potential employees as and where appropriate.
The principle of shareholder alignment is reflected throughout the organisation through our all employee share plans, which are where legally possible extended to all eligibleBurberry employees globally.
Indicative total remuneration levels A substantial portion of executive director remuneration is dependent on Company performance.
The charts below illustrateindicative levels of total remuneration which would be received by each executive director under the remuneration policy above for the first complete financial year in which the policy will apply from 1 April 2015 at each of: 1 maximum, 2 target and 3 below threshold performance scenarios.
Executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance Christopher Bailey Chief Creative & Chief Executive Of cer Maximum 18% 22% 60% 10.3m Target 31% 18% 51% 6.1m Below threshold 100% 1.9m John Smith Chief Operating Of cer Maximum 20% 22% 58% 4.1m Target 33% 18% 49% 2.4m Below threshold 100% 0.8m Carol Fairweather Chief Financial Of cer Maximum 20% 22% 58% 3.4m Target 33% 18% 49% 2.0m Below threshold 100% 0.7m 0m 2m 4m 6m 8m 10m Fixed Short-term variable Long-term variable Notes: Maximum remuneration includes fixed pay plus 100% of annual bonus opportunity and a 400% of salary ESP award.
Target remuneration includes fixed pay plus 50% of annual bonus opportunity and a 200% of salary ESP award.
Below threshold remuneration includes fixed pay only salary, pension and cash allowances.
No share price growth or dividend payments have been applied to share awards included in these indicative total remuneration figures.
Salaries are assumed to be at the levels that will apply from 1 July 2014.
The CC & CEOs 2014 exceptional share award has been included in the chart above on an annualised basis the same approach will be taken in each yearuntilthe award has vested in full.
His 2010 and 2013 exceptional share awards have been excluded, as they do not form part of the general policy orhisremuneration as CC & CEO.
95 Board and Governance Policy on service agreements and termination provisions Executive directors The Companys general policy on directors service agreements is that they operate on a rolling basis with no specific enddate and include a 12-month notice period both to and from the Company.
Date of current service Date employment Notice period to the Notice period from the agreement commenced Company Company Christopher Bailey 30 April 2014 7 May 2001 6 months 12 months John Smith 6 February 2013 4 March 2013 12 months 12 months Carol Fairweather 11 July 2013 12 June 2006 6 months 12 months Standard terms on termination Salary, benefits and allowances: Executive directors continue to receive salary, benefits and allowances during their notice period.
Pursuant to the terms of Business Protection Agreements which set out restrictive covenants and terms relating to the non-solicitation ofemployees in place with the executive directors except the CC & CEO, payments equal to salary for the durationofcertain restrictive covenants may be made if the employer chooses to enforce them to protect Burberrys continuingbusiness.
Annual bonus paid in cash: An executive considered to be a good leaver for example leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee may remain eligible for aprorated payment of the annual bonus subject to achievement of bonus targets.
An executive who has left employment for a reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period or before the payment is due, orwho has given or been given notice in those circumstances at the time of payment, will not be eligible to receive anannual bonus.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the payment of annual bonus toleavers, asoutlined below.
CIP invested shares: An executive leaving the Company for any reason is entitled to retain all invested shares held.
CIP matching awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards will be proratedfor time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date.
Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance at the point of change in control.
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, CIP matching awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which CIP matching awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
RSP awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance.
Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding awards willvest subject to performance at the point of change in control.
For an executive whose employment is terminated forany other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, RSP awards willlapsein full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which RSP awards vest forleavers, as outlined below.
ESP awards proposed : For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards willbe prorated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date.
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, ESP awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
Other: Reasonable disbursements for example, legal or professional fees, relocation costs will be paid.
Discretion: In the Committees experience, directors leave for a wide variety of reasons and individual circumstances, which do not all fall within the good leaver categories outlined above.
The Committee therefore retains discretion to approve payments to individuals based on individual circumstances and performance while in office.
In applying any suchdiscretion, the Committee will make any decisions by considering the best interests of shareholders and those oftheremaining employees including directors.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, these would be tested at the end of the relevant period s and any award which is allowed to vest would be prorated for time in office.
96 Board and Governance Christopher Bailey The Company has agreed specific arrangements with Christopher Bailey in relation to termination of his employment in substitution for the first two bullets of the standard terms described in the previous section.
These specific arrangements are described below.
The Company may terminate Christopher Baileys service agreement without cause by giving 12 months written notice.
TheCompany may terminate the service agreement immediately, in its sole discretion, by written notice and electing to payto Christopher Bailey either 1 a lump sum representing his salary in lieu of the unexpired notice period within 14 days oftermination or 2 in monthly instalments of 1 12 of his annual salary and 1 12 of his annual allowance of 440,000 in lieuofthe unexpired notice period or until Christopher Bailey commences any new employment or engagement if earlier.
Christopher Bailey must use his reasonable endeavours to seek alternative employment during the balance of his unexpired notice period.
The Company willalso pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to actual service in the bonus year.
Thebonus would be paid on the usual bonus payment date.
Christopher Bailey may terminate his service agreement at any time for Good Reason, provided he has requested that the Company remedy the relevant breach within 14 days of notification and the Company has failed to do so.
Good Reason means the Company is guilty of serious and continued non-observance or breach of the terms of the service agreement or of any applicable substantial laws which are detrimental to Christopher Bailey.
On termination for Good Reason Christopher Bailey is entitled to alump sum payment representing his salary in lieu of notice.
The Company willalso pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the yearin which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to actual service in the bonus year.
Thebonus would be paidon the usual bonus payment date.
The Company may terminate the service agreement on health grounds by giving Christopher Bailey not less than six months notice once Christopher Baileys entitlement to Company sick pay has been exhausted or he has been incapacitated formore than 26 weeks whether or not continuous in any period of 52 weeks.
The Company may, in its solediscretion, terminate the employment by making a payment of 130 per cent of his salary, and pay the allowance inlieuof notice within 14 days of termination.
TheCompany will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in whichemployment terminated subject to achievement of theperformance targets and other requirements of the bonusarrangements for that year, prorated to actual service inthat year.
The bonus would be paid on the usual bonuspayment date.
If Christopher Bailey dies during his employment with the Company, the Company will pay his estate his salary to the termination date and a bonus calculated as for an ill health termination described above.
Upon termination of the service agreement, Christopher Baileys entitlements if any under the relevant share plans inwhichhe participates will be determined in accordance with the rules of those plans, as described above.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors serve under Letters of Appointment with the Company.
Non-executive directors may continue to serve subject to the annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, subject to six months notice by either party.
There are no provisions for compensation for loss of office, orpayments in lieu of notice in the Letters of Appointment.
Development of directors remuneration policy In developing and reviewing the directors remuneration policy, the Committee is mindful of the views of shareholders andissensitive of the relativities of arrangements for senior executives to those for employees more generally.
The Committee proactively seeks feedback from shareholders when considering any significant changes to remuneration forexecutive directors.
The Committee also listens to and takes into consideration investor views more generally throughout the year.
For example, during the year the Company consulted with its leading shareholders on the proposed ESP and remuneration policy and refined the proposals based on the feedback received.
Base salary increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of Company-wide salary increases.
Given the scale, geographic spread and the diversity of roles of the Companys employees, the Committee doesnot proactively consult with employees specifically on the remuneration policy for directors.
Employees are free to communicate their views internally on any topic including by using the Burberry internal social media platform or using the employee confidential helpline.
In addition, many of the Companys employees are shareholders, through the Sharesave andFree Share plans, andthey, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors remuneration at each general meeting.
Directors remuneration in 2013 14 The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Single figure of total remuneration outcomes for 2013 14 audited The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received or receivable by the directors in respect of the2013 14 year or the three-year performance period ending on 31 March 2014 in respect of the 2011 Co-Investment Planawards.
The remuneration for Angela Ahrendts relates to the period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014, during which she served asChiefExecutive Officer.
The remuneration for Carol Fairweather relates to the period 11 July 2013 to 31 March 2014, theperiod during which sheserved as a director and Chief Financial Officer.
The remuneration for Stacey Cartwright relatesto the period from 1April 2013 to 12 July 2013, when she stepped down from the Board.
Christopher Bailey wasnotadirector during the year and so his remuneration does not appear in this table.
98 Board and Governance The table below details the benefits allowances received by the executive directors during the 2013 14 year: Private Long-term Tax andother 2013 14 benefits allowances Overseas Car Clothing medical Life disability professional Total 000s allowance allowance allowance insurance assurance insurance advice 000 Angela Ahrendts 344 18 25 23 9 6 42 467 John Smith 17 15 2 11 3 48 Carol Fairweather 7 11 3 1 1 23 Former executive directors Stacey Cartwright 5 4 1 1 11 Notes: It is the intention of Carol Fairweather and John Smith that 100% of their 2013 14 annual bonus after tax will be invested in shares under the CIP.
The amounts shown for 2011 CIP awards vesting for Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather for year to 31 March 2014 assume a share price of 14.75, basedon the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2014, and payments of 233,595 and 16,259 respectively in lieu of dividends, becausethese awards are yet to vest.
2010 CIP awards vested in full on 10 June 2013 at a share price of 14.29.
The amount shown for Angela Ahrendts also includes a payment of 423,798 inlieuofdividends.
John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013, having previously served as a non-executive director until that date.
Salary fees for John Smith for the year to 31 March 2013 comprise non-executive fees of 64,000 and executive director salary of 46,000.
Allowances paid in cash for the same period comprise 2,000 while a non-executive director and 2,000 for allowances received as an executive director.
Fees for Matthew Key relate to the period from 1 September 2013 his appointment date to 31 March 2014.
Fees for Jeremy Darroch relate to the period from 5 February 2014 his appointment date to 31 March 2014.
Stacey Cartwright served as a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline plc from 1 April 2011 and it was agreed that fees earned in connection with thisappointment can be retained by her.
Stacey Cartwright continued as an employee to receive salary, benefits and pension contribution for the period when she had stepped down from the Board, from 12 July 2013 until her leaving date of 31 July 2013 salary of 31,000, benefits allowances of 2,084 and pension of 9,434 these amounts are not included in the table above.
For the full year to 31 March 2013, Stacey Cartwright served as Chief Financial Officer and was therefore entitled to an annual bonus, her 2010 CIPaward, which vested in full 214,944 shares at a price of 14.29, plus a dividend equivalent payment of 136,489 and the first tranche 50% of her 2010 RSP award which vested at 87% 67,860 shares at a share price of 14.27 these are included in the table above.
Stacey Cartwright did not receive any payment forloss ofoffice or otherwise in respect of her departure from the Company.
No payment has been made to a past director other than to Stacey Cartwright, as stated above.
Salary for 2013 14 Angela Ahrendts held the role of Chief Executive Officer for the 2013 14 year and left the Company on 30 April 2014.
Her annual salary was 1,066,000 from 1 July 2013.
John Smith became an executive director on4 March 2013 with a salary of 575,000, this will be reviewed in July 2014.
Carol Fairweather became an executive director on 11 July 2013 and her salary was increased on 1 October 2013 from 350,000 to 450,000 to reflect her new role.
Carol Fairweathers salary will be reviewed in July 2014.
Annual bonus outcomes 2013 14 audited For the year to 31 March 2014, the 2013 14 Adjusted PBT achieved was between the target and maximum level set by theCommittee, which resulted in bonuses for the executive directors of 70% of maximum, as set out in the table below.
Maximum bonus 2013 14 2013 14 2013 14 opportunity bonus payment bonus payment bonus payment Annual bonus for 2013 14 % of salary % of maximum % of salary 000 Angela Ahrendts 200% 70% 140% 1,492 John Smith 150% 70% 105% 604 Carol Fairweather 135% 70% 95% 308 Targets will be disclosed in the 2014 15 report unless the Board deems them to be commercially sensitive.
For the final time, in respect of 2013 14 bonuses, executive directors excluding Angela Ahrendts can choose to invest thefull amount into shares and any invested amounts are eligible for matching awards under the Co-Investment Plan.
Christopher Bailey, JohnSmith and Carol Fairweather intend to invest 100% of their bonuses after the deduction of tax intoBurberry shares under the CIP.
Further details of the associated matching awards are shown in the Summary of key remuneration aspects in2014 15 for executive directors on page 103, full details will appear in the 2014 15 Directors Remuneration Report.
Co-Investment Plan outcomes for 2013 14 audited In June 2011, Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather were awarded Co-Investment Plan CIP matching awards of 300,252 and 20,898 shares respectively.
Vesting was subject to performance from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014, as follows: 25% ofawards vest if growth in Adjusted PBT is 5% per annum over three years, 100% vest if Adjusted PBT growth is equal to orexceeds 10% per annum over three years.
The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated using Adjusted PBT as disclosed in the annual accounts.
Actual Adjusted PBT growth over the three-year period to 31March 2014 at constant exchange rates was 14.2%, therefore 100% of awards will vest in June 2014, as set out inthetable below.
2011 2011 CIP Adjusted Level of CIP award PBT growth Adjusted PBT 2013 14 2013 14 no.
of targets over growth achieved CIP vesting CIP vesting # CIP outcomes for 2013 14 matching shares three years p. a. over three years % of maximum 000 Angela Ahrendts 300,252 Threshold: 5% 14.2% p. a.
100% 4,662 Maximum: 10% Carol Fairweather 20,898 100% 325 The amounts shown for 2011 CIP awards vesting for Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather for year to 31 March 2014 assume a share price of 14.75, basedon the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2014, and payments of 233,595 and 16,259 respectively in lieu of dividends, becausethese awards are yet to vest.
# The level of Adjusted PBT achieved is lower than the reported 2013 14 Adjusted PBT due to adjustments made by the Committee to reflect both constant exchange rates and the deduction of items disallowed by the Committee for remuneration purposes.
John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013 and so did not receive a CIP award in 2011.
Restricted Share Plan outcomes for 2013 14 audited No Restricted Share Plan RSP awards are due to vest for the 2013 14 year, as no RSP awards were granted to executive directorsunder the plan in 2011.
Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration relative to all employees The table below sets out the year-on-year change 2013 14 vs. 2012 13 of Angela Ahrendtss salary, benefits and annual bonus received in her role as Chief Executive Officer, compared to the year-on-year change for comparator group of UK-based employees.
Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive Officer Year-on-year change % 3.6% 5.7% -3.4% Employees Year-on-year change % 3.5% 0% -3.4% The comparator group includes employees in senior corporate roles based in the UK.
This group has been chosen as these employees have a remuneration package with a similar structure to the CEO including salary, benefits allowances and annual bonus and being UK-based, most closely reflects the economic environment encountered by the CEO.
For the comparator group of employees, the salary and bonus year-on-year changes include the annual salary review butexclude any additional changes made in the year to salary or bonus levels, for example on promotion.
In 2013 14, the bonus outturn based on Adjusted PBT performance was 70% of maximum, compared to 75% of maximum in 2012 13.
The 0% increase for benefits for the comparator group of employees reflects no change to benefits policies or levels during the year.
It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received as a result of a change in role, for example on promotion.
For all employees, the average salary increase was 3.5% including annual salary review but excluding any additional changes.
A meaningful year-on-year change for benefits and bonus for all employees cannot be provided due to the variation instructure of these payelements across rolesand regions.
Relative importance of spend on pay for 2013 14 The table below sets out the total payroll costs for all employees over 2013 14 compared to total dividends payable fortheyear.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2013 14 2012 13 Dividends paid during the year total m 130.7 113.5 % change 15.2% Payroll costs for all employees m 441.3 387.0 % change 14.0% Average number of full-time equivalent employees 9,698 8,867 % change 9.4% 100 Board and Governance 3.
Outstanding share interests The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Conditional share awards granted in 2013 14 audited The table below summarises the long-term conditional share awards granted to directors during 2013 14.
Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2013 14 Performance Vesting Performance Basis of Number of Face value 3 Type of award measure schedule period end Director award shares awarded at grant CIP matching Growth in 25% for 5% p. a.
31 3 2016 Angela 1.5x invested 170,116 2,317,500 1 4 share awards Adjusted PBT Ahrendts 2012 13 bonus over three years 100% for 10% p. a. or above John Smith Straight-line Carol 1.125x invested 21,677 295,313 vesting between Fairweather 2012 13 bonus 5 RSP share Growth in 25% for 10% p. a.
31 3 2016 Angela 2x salary 157,343 2,132,000 2 4 awards Adjusted PBT Ahrendts over three years 100% for 15% 50% p. a. or above Straight-line vesting between TSR vs. sector 25% for median John Smith 1.5x salary 63,653 862,500 peers over three years 50% 100% for upper quartile or above Carol 1x salary 25,830 350,000 Fairweather Straight-line vesting between 1 The CIP matching shares were awarded on 14 June 2013 and will vest after three years, subject to the performance conditions outlined above.
John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013 and so did not receive either a bonus for 2012 13 or a CIP matching award in 2013 14.
2 The RSP shares were awarded on 14 June 2013 and will vest 50% after three years, and 25% after each of four and five years, subject to the performance conditions outlined above.
3 The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at the date of grant 13.62 for CIP matching awards and 13.55 for RSP awards.
Asreceipt of these is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be nil.
Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2016 17 remunerationreport.
4 The CIP and RSP awards granted to Angela Ahrendts during 2013 14 lapsed in full upon her departure from Burberry, as noted on page 104.
5 The threshold PBT target for RSP awards was set at a stretching 10% p. a. to reflect that awards above 1x salary had been granted.
Further information on conditional share awards granted in 2013 14 audited TSR performance vs. sector peers 50% of the RSP share awards granted in 2013 14 vest subject to Burberrys three-year TSR performance relative to sector peers.
The TSR peer group for the 2013 awards comprises: Coach, Compagnie Financire Richemont, Este Lauder, Fossil, Fifth & Pacific formerly Liz Claiborne, Geox, Herms International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Kering formerly PPR, Luxottica Group, LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tods.
The vesting outcome based on relative TSR is calculated by Towers Watson.
Growth in Adjusted PBT The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated using Adjusted PBT as disclosed in the annualaccounts, subject to any adjustments made by the Committee to reflect any items deemed to be outside of managements control.
Total interests in shares audited The table below summarises the total interests of the directors in ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc as at 31 March 2014.
There have been no changes in the period up to and including 20 May 2014 apart from those detailed in notes 3 and6below.
These include beneficial and conditional interests and the interests of their connected persons in shares.
2 CIP awards are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined on page 103.
3 Awards lapsed in full upon Angela Ahrendts departure in accordance with the rules of each plan and as outlined on page 104 the One-off NCO was anil-costoption award.
4 Carol Fairweather exercised the following awards during the year: 35,651 shares under CIP granted 9 June 2010.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 10,000 shares under RSP granted 1 June 2009.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 13,050 shares under RSP granted 10 June 2010.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p.
5 Angela Ahrendts exercised the following awards during the year: 501,536 shares under CIP granted 9 June 2010.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 26 November 2013 was 1499.196p: 112,500 shares under RSP granted 1 June 2009.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 26 November 2013 was 1499.196p.
6 Awards lapsed in full upon Stacey Cartwrights departure in accordance with the rules of each plan.
7 Stacey Cartwright exercised during the year: 214,944 shares under CIP granted 9 June 2010.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 10,076 shares under RSP granted 10 August 2006.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 2,521 shares under RSP granted 27 November 2006.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 15,746 shares under RSP granted 11 June 2007.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 66,250 shares under RSP granted 1 June 2009.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 14 June 2013 was 1362.30p: 33,930 shares under RSP granted 10 June 2010.
102 Board and Governance Shareholding policy To ensure continued alignment with the interests of shareholders, the Board has increased the minimum shareholding requirement for directors and senior executives to the following levels: 500,000 shares for the CC & CEO: two-times base salary for other executive directors: one-times base salary for other senior executives: and the Chairman and non-executive directors are expected to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year oftheirappointment.
Senior executives are expected to retain 50% of shares acquired on the exercise of options and awards net of tax, until such guidelines are met.
As at 31 March 2014 at the closing share price of 13.95, the value of shares owned by John Smith and Carol Fairweather was 35,712 and 734,509 respectively or 6% and 163% of their respective salaries as at that date.
Both John and Carol became executive directors during 2013 and will now be expected to make progress towards their executive shareholding requirement of two-times salary.
As at 31 March 2014, Angela Ahrendts had fulfilled her shareholding requirement and heldshares worth 9,555,903 or 896% of her salary.
As at 31 March 2014, all of the non-executive directors had fulfilled therequirement to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year of their appointment, with the exception ofJeremy Darroch who was appointed towards the end of the year.
As at her leaving date, Stacey Cartwright had fulfilled her shareholding requirement.
Directors remuneration in 2014 15 It is the Committees intention that the remuneration policy, once approved by shareholders, will be applied immediately following approval.
The table below summarises how the remuneration policy will be implemented for executive directors inthe year 2014 15.
Carol Fairweather will receive a salary increase of11.1% to reflect her strong performance as CFO andto address that her salary wassetatbelow market levels when she was appointed as CFO.
Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2014 15 for executive directors Element Performance measure s Director Maximum level Base salary Christopher Bailey 1,100,000 no increase John Smith 592,000 3.0% increase Carol Fairweather 500,000 11.1% increase Annual bonus Annual Adjusted PBT Christopher Bailey 200% of salary The Board considers the forward-looking PBT John Smith 150% of salary bonus targets to be commercially sensitive and so they will Carol Fairweather 150% of salary be disclosed retrospectively only CIP matching awards final Three-year growth in Christopher Bailey 196% of salary awards under this plan Adjusted PBT 1.4x invested 13 14 bonus 25% for 5% p. a. John Smith 110% of salary 1.05x invested 13 14 bonus 100% for 10% p. a. Carol Fairweather 99% of salary Straight-line 1.05x invested 13 14 bonus vesting between RSP share awards final Three-year growth in Three-year TSR vs. Christopher Bailey 100% of salary awards under this plan Adjusted PBT 50% sector peers 50% 25% for 5% p. a.
25% for median John Smith 100% of salary 100% for 15% p. a.
100% for upper quartile Carol Fairweather 150% of salary Straight-line Straight-line vesting between vesting between 103 Board and Governance The table below sets out the fee structure for the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2014 15.
Fee level Summary of Chairman and NED fees for 2014 15 000 1 Chairman 400 Non-Executive Director 80 Senior Independent Director 20 Audit Committee Chair 35 Remuneration Committee Chair 35 2 Attendance allowance 2 1 The Chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or attendance allowances.
2 Non-executive directors receive an attendance allowance for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
Further information on remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO Christopher Baileys remuneration as CC & CEO is detailed below.
Aside from a one-off performance-based share award fortaking on the CEO role, there has been no increase to Christophers remuneration compared to that he received inhisprevious role as Chief Creative Officer CCO.
The elements of his remuneration going forward are as follows: Salary of 1,100,000 plus an annual allowance of 440,000 and a pension allowance of 30% of salary.
An annual performance-based bonus of up to 200% of salary and eligible to participate in the performance-based executive share plans.
In line with the other executive directors, Christopher will invest his 2013 14 bonus in full andwillbegranted awards under the CIP andRSPfor the final time in 2014 15, as outlined on page 103.
As part of his appointment, Christopher will be awarded a one-off, performance based grant of 500,000 shares similar to that previously granted to Angela Ahrendts in 2010.
These will vest on a phased basis from 2017 to 2019.
Christopher will continue to be required to retain 50% of any share award that vests on a net of tax basis until hisshareholding guideline is achieved.
The Committee has determined that he will be required to hold at least 500,000shares.
In his previous role as CCO, Christopher was granted a number of share awards including under the Companys performance-based executive share plans.
These will vest between 2014 and 2018.
In addition Christopher wasgranted one-off share awards not performance based of 350,000 shares in December 2010 and 1,000,000 shares inJuly 2013.
These will vest between 2015 and 2018.
Further information on remuneration for Angela Ahrendts The table of total remuneration outcomes for 2013 14 on page 98 details the remuneration Angela Ahrendts received during 2013 14.
She stepped down from the Board and departed Burberry on 30 April 2014.
Angela continued to receive her regular salary, pension contribution and benefit payments until 30 April 2014.
Upon her departure, Angela Ahrendts had fulfilled the CEO role for the complete 2013 14 financial year and the Remuneration Committee determined that she would receive an annual bonus, based on Adjusted PBT performance fortheyear 2013 14, as shown in the table on page 99.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Angela Ahrendtss outstanding 2011 Co-Investment Plan CIP matching award of 300,252 shares will vest, as shown in the table on page 100.
The three-year performance period was completed on31 March 2014 prior to Angela Ahrendtss departure and she had fulfilled the role of CEO for the duration of the period.
Inrespect of the 2011 CIP shares that vest, Angela Ahrendts will also receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of dividends which would have been received on these shares during the vesting period.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Angela Ahrendtss outstanding final tranche of her 2009 Restricted SharePlan RSP of 112,500 shares will vest.
The three-year performance period was completed on 31 March 2012.
104 Board and Governance The following outstanding share awards held by Angela Ahrendts have vesting dates in the future the relevant vesting years are shown in brackets and lapsed in full upon her departure from Burberry, in accordance with the rules of each plan: 500,000 shares One-off nil-cost option award granted in 2010 2015 326,736 shares CIP matching award granted in 2012 2015 170,116 shares CIP matching award granted in 2013 2016 157,343 shares RSP share award granted in 2013 2016 2,773 shares All employee SAYE 2010 award 2015 Angela will not be receiving any payment relating to her departure from the Company.
Committee membership The following directors served as members of the Committee throughout the financial year ending 31 March 2014: Ian Carter Chairman Philip Bowman Jeremy Darroch from 5 February 2014 Stephanie George Matthew Key from 26 September 2013 David Tyler 7.2.
Advisors to the Committee during 2013 14 At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the following people attended meetings and provided advice to the Committee: Sir John Peace Chairman, Angela Ahrendts Chief Executive Officer, Carol Fairweather Chief Financial Officer, Michael Mahony Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Anne-Soline Thorndike SeniorVice President, Reward and Recognition and Catherine Sukmonowski Company Secretary.
During the 2013 14 financial year, the Committee received external advice from Towers Watson, as detailed in the table below.
Towers Watson has been the appointed independent advisor to the Committee since 2011 and were selected at thattime following a formal tender process.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which isresponsible for the development and maintenance of the voluntary Code of Conduct that clearly sets out the role ofexecutive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients and, as such, theCommittee is satisfied that their advice is objective and independent.
Linklaters LLP provided advice to the Committee in relation to compliance with legislation, namely the regulations governing the disclosure of directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
External advisors and fees Services provided Other services provided Fees for Committee Advisors totheCommittee to the Company assistance Towers Watson TW Appointed by the Committee, to A term of the engagement between the Committee 110,772 provide advice on the ongoing and TW is that any additional consulting services Fees charged on a time and operation of employee and provided by TW to management are reported on a expense basis executive share plans together regular basis to the Committee.
Where an actual or with advice on executive potential conflict may occur, such work is agreed by remuneration.
the Chairman of the Committee prior to commencement.
TW provides market benchmarking information to management in relation to a small number of roles which fall below the remit of Committee review.
Remuneration report voting results The table below shows the results of the shareholder advisory vote on the 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Report.
Asmentioned earlier in this report, the Committee listens to and takes into consideration investor views throughout theyear, including the feedback received at the 2013 AGM.
2013 AGM voting results Any issues raised and Vote Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Company response Advisory vote on 2012 13 Directors 308,452,943 10,085,661 4,159,334 Not applicable Remuneration Report 96.83% 3.17% 8.
Five-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration The first chart below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in theFTSE 100 index assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009.
The FTSE 100 was selected because Burberry became aconstituent on 10 September 2009 and prior to that had a market capitalisation close to that of companies at the lower endof the FTSE 100 index.
The second chart below shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent chief executive officer over the same five-year period, along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
The total amounts are based on the same methodology as used for the table on page 98 Single figure of total remunerationfor 2013 14.
Details of this plan can be found in the relevant historical directors remuneration reports.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Ian Carter Chairman, Remuneration Committee 20 May 2014 106
