Governance Directors remuneration report STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholders On behalf of the Board and as Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014, which is split into two parts: A summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
This section contains a summary of the remuneration policy approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM and is for information only.
No changes have been made to the policy this year.
The Directors Remuneration Implementation Report, which outlines how policy was implemented in 2014 and how the Directors Remuneration Policy is intended to apply in 2015.
This statement and Implementation Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
Linking remuneration to business strategy The Committee continues to place great importance on ensuring that there is a clear link between remuneration and the Groups business strategy.
We therefore reviewed our variable pay plans during 2014 to ensure that they are designed to motivate the delivery of our key strategic objectives, including the Helping Britain Prosper Plan and our responsible business goals.
In this way, they support a  culture and reward long-term sustainable performance, as well as building an environment in which colleague conduct and trust from customers are paramount.
Our annual bonus plan will continue to reward the delivery of financial targets and balanced scorecard objectives in line with our operating plan.
During 2014, we reviewed our performance adjustment framework and made enhancements in line with current regulatory expectations.
Further details on this are provided below.
Performance adjustment is the process by which variable remuneration is adjusted to take into account matters that fall outside the Boards specified risk appetite.
Individual and collective performance adjustment is now based on new guidelines and principles, ensuring adjustments reflect accountability and are sufficient to change colleague behaviours.
Collective performance adjustment is intended to encourage positive risk behaviour across the Group by adjusting all bonuses for material risk failings.
Our long-term incentive plan continues to support value creation for shareholders with appropriate focus on the customer, financial health and the achievement of long-term strategic aims.
In order to support the Groups journey to become the Best Bank for Customers, the Committee has adjusted the performance targets for the 2015 long-term incentive plan LTIP so that they are closely aligned with the areas of focus under the Group Strategic Review GSR : Creating the best customer experience Becoming simpler and more efficient Delivering sustainable growth Building the best team The core financial measures economic profit, absolute TSR and cost:income ratio will remain the same, representing 65 per cent of the total award.
For the remaining 35 per cent of the award, quantitative strategic measures relating to customers and digitisation will be used to reflect key areas of strategic focus under the GSR.
With regard to the economic profit measure, which remains a core financial measure, the Group is currently reviewing the calculation methodology for financial reporting purposes in order to better align with current expectations of the Groups forward-looking plan, including the Groups capital requirements and asset quality ratio.
We are seeking to complete this review as soon as possible and will consult with shareholders in respect of any proposed changes in the first half of 2015.
End-to-end review of annual bonus process and performance adjustment During 2014, the Committee undertook an extensive end-to-end review of our bonus process resulting in a revised methodology for calculating the risk-adjusted bonus outcome being implemented for 2014.
As part of this, our approach to performance adjustment was reviewed to ensure that we have clear principles for collective and or individual adjustments when taking account of material, adverse risk events.
As a result of this review, we have enhanced our governance relating to performance adjustment through the formation of the Independent Performance Adjustment Committee which supports the Remuneration Committee in its decision making relating to adjustments and through greater alignment between the Board Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee in assessing risk matters.
In addition, the Group has now incorporated clawback provisions for all Material Risk Takers in line with Prudential Regulation Authority PRA requirements from 1 January 2015.
Variable remuneration can now be recovered from employees up to seven years after the date of award in the case of a material or severe risk event.
All of the above actions will ensure that there is full alignment between risk, reward and the performance of the Bank when determining variable pay outcomes.
Remuneration outcomes for 2014 We have performed strongly in 2014, delivering substantial improvements in profitability while at the same time continuing to address historical legacy issues As outlined elsewhere in the annual report, in terms of financial performance, our underlying profit increased by 26 per cent, driven by an increase in net interest income, further reduced costs and lower impairments.
We have also delivered strongly against many of our key strategic goals, with continued delivery of simplification cost savings, reduction in risk and the successful completion of the TSB IPO during the year.
82 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information L Lllo oy yd ds s B Ba an nk king ing G Gr rou oup p A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 In determining 2014 bonus outcomes for Lloyds Banking Group excluding TSB, the Remuneration Committee has balanced the need to remunerate appropriately for the Banks strong performance in 2014, and ensure that appropriate adjustments are made for legacy issues.
The Committee has applied collective adjustments to the bonus outcome and individual adjustments to bonus awards where necessary.
Having implemented the new process, it is critical that our colleagues understand how variable remuneration is determined and adjusted for risk matters.
We have therefore made significant enhancements to communications and training to support the embedding of the performance adjustment approach.
The collective adjustment reflects the level of provisions for legacy conduct-related matters, principally relating to PPI, legacy retail issues and SME derivatives.
These have declined significantly from the previous year, but still have a material impact on our statutory profit.
The risk failure which led to regulatory settlement on LIBOR and Repo rate setting was also a significant element in determining the level of the collective adjustment.
The overall assessment of collective adjustment also takes into account certain positive factors that are not otherwise captured in the bonus calculation, but which benefited the Groups shareholders or improved the Groups reputation.
These include progress with non-core disposals, the SWIP sale, the TSB separation IPO and the reduction in the Government shareholding.
Taking all of the above into account, the Committee determined that a bonus outcome for 2014 of 369.5 million was appropriate, incorporating a reduction for collective performance adjustment of approximately 25 per cent.
This is a 3.6 per cent reduction in the bonus outcome from 2013 after adjusting for TSB.
At this level, the bonus outcome reflects the achievement of the plan for the year set by the Board.
The total outcome is less than was paid in 2013 and is less than 5 per cent of the underlying profit from which it is derived, which is a considerably lower figure than other UK banks.
Average bonus payments across all our staff are approximately 4,500, with fewer than 3 per cent of our staff receiving a bonus in excess of 25,000, of which 2,000 is paid in cash, the balance being deferred in shares and released periodically over subsequent months and years.
For the Executive Directors, performance against the financial measures of the annual bonus significantly exceeded the maximum targets, and performance against balanced scorecard objectives was also strong.
However, taking into account the legacy issues noted above, the Committee determined that bonus awards of between 54 per cent and 69 per cent of maximum opportunity should be made to Executive Directors.
In respect of LTIP awards made in 2012, the Banks performance to the end of 2014 was very strong.
The proposed vesting level of 96.6 per cent reflects strong financial performance, and significant shareholder value created over the period as the Banks market capitalisation increased from c. 18 billion to c. 54 billion.
This has justifiably led to significant payouts to participants, due not only to the delivery of targets but also the increase in share price.
Awards were granted in shares at 34.786 pence and the significant increase over the period has more than doubled the value for recipients, in line with the increase realised by shareholders.
Consideration of stakeholders views We remain committed to maintaining regular dialogue with our key stakeholders and take careful consideration of their views when making our decisions.
During the year, we consulted with UK Financial Investments UKFI and a number of our other major shareholders to gather their views and feedback on remuneration, and in particular the changes to the 2015 LTIP.
We also consulted with our main regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the PRA throughout the year.
We are grateful for the supportive feedback we have received from all parties.
The Committee reviews annually a report from the Group HR Director on the operation of the remuneration policy and its effectiveness.
In 2014, the report concluded that effective systems and controls are in place for all requirements of the policy and that it delivers outcomes in line with the Groups values, reward principles and the PRA Remuneration Code.
We continue to believe that our remuneration policies and practices fairly reward our directors, and support the delivery of the Groups strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
I therefore hope you will support the resolution relating to remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
Anthony Watson, CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 83 Governance Directors remuneration report continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The policy set out in the 2013 Directors remuneration report was formally approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 May 2014.
It is intended that approval of the remuneration policy will be sought at three year intervals, unless amendments to the policy are required in which case further shareholder approval will be sought.
There are no amendments required to the current policy for 2015 and therefore shareholders will not be asked to vote on the Remuneration Policy at the AGM this year.
The remuneration policy tables for Executive and Non-Executive Directors are included below for ease of reference.
They have been reproduced as approved with the exception of minor, inconsequential deletions.
In particular, where 2014 examples were provided in the 2013 Annual Report, these have been removed.
Information on how the Policy will be implemented in 2015 is included in the Directors remuneration report.
The full policy is available at www.
As outlined in the 2013 Directors remuneration report, our policy is intended to ensure that our remuneration proposition is both cost effective and enables us to attract and retain executives of the highest calibre.
Our objective is to align individual reward with the Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders and a prudent approach to risk management.
In this way, we balance the requirements of our major stakeholders: our customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators.
The policy is based on principles which are applicable to all employees within the Group and in particular the principle that the reward package should support the delivery of our strategic goal to be the Best Bank for Customers.
It embeds a performance-driven and meritocratic culture, encourages effective risk disciplines and is in line with relevant regulations and codes of best practice.
There is no significant difference between the policy for Executive Directors and that for other senior employees.
If a significant difference for any individual were proposed, this would be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee within regulatory requirements.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Base salary Purpose and link Base salary reflects the role of the individual taking account of responsibilities and experience, and pay in the Group to strategy as a whole.
It helps to recruit and retain Directors and forms the basis of a competitive remuneration package.
Operation Base salaries are typically reviewed annually with any increases normally taking effect from 1 January.
When determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Pay for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups, of a similar size.
The Committee also takes into account base salary increases for employees throughout the Group.
As disclosed in previous reports, since his appointment, the Group Chief Executive GCE has a reference salary of 1.22 million which is used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Increases will normally be in line with the increase awarded to the overall employee population.
However, a greater salary increase may be appropriate in certain circumstances, such as a new appointment made on a salary below a market competitive level, where phased increases are planned, or where there has been an increase in the responsibilities of an individual.
Performance measures N A Fixed share award Purpose and link To ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward package to strategy for Executive Directors with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
Operation The Fixed Share Award will be delivered in Lloyds Banking Group shares, released over five years with 20 per cent being released each year following the year of award.
Maximum potential The maximum award is 100 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A 84 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Pension Purpose and link Our pension policy aims to support Executive Directors in building long-term retirement savings.
to strategy Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groups defined contribution scheme with company contributions set as a percentage of salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Maximum potential The maximum allowance for the GCE is 50 per cent of reference salary less any flexible benefit allowance.
The maximum allowance for other Executive Directors is 25 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Benefits Purpose and link To provide suitable benefits as part of a competitive package.
to strategy Operation Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the Implementation Report.
Core benefits include a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and other benefits that may be selected through the Groups flexible benefits plan.
Additional benefits may be provided to individuals in certain circumstances such as relocation.
This may include benefits such as accommodation, relocation, and travel.
The Committee retains the right to provide additional benefits depending on individual circumstances.
When determining and reviewing the level of benefits provided, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Benefits for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in the benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
The Groups flexible benefits allowance is capped at 4 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A All-employee plans Purpose and link Executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC approved all-employee schemes which encourage to strategy share ownership.
Operation Executive Directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Maximum potential Participation levels may be increased up to HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
With effect from April 2014, the monthly savings limits for Save As You Earn SAYE is 500.
The maximum value of shares that may be purchased under the Share Incentive Plan SIP in any year is 1,800 with a two for one match although currently a one for one match is operated and the maximum value of free shares that may be awarded in any year is 3,600.
Performance measures N A, following HMRC rules.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 85 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus Purpose and link Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups annual financial and strategic targets.
to strategy Operation Measures and targets are set annually and awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based on performance against the targets set.
The annual bonus may be delivered partly in cash and partly deferred into cash, shares, notes or other debt instruments including contingent convertible bonds.
Deferral levels are set at the time of award and in compliance with regulatory requirements which currently require that at least 60 per cent of variable pay is deferred and at least 50 per cent of variable pay is paid in shares or other instruments.
Deferred awards normally vest after three years and the Committee may adjust awards in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend or distribution or amend the terms of the plan in accordance with the plan rules.
At the time of the release, Executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the interest that would have accrued on the deferred component, if deferral is made in notes or debt instruments, or dividends paid or payable if deferred in shares, between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce the level of deferred award including to zero, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of deferred awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Maximum potential The maximum annual bonus opportunities are 140 per cent of base salary for the GCE and 100 per cent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Performance measures Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee in line with the Groups strategic business plan and further details are set out in the Implementation Report for the relevant year.
At least 50 per cent of the awards are weighted towards financial measures, with the balance on strategic objectives.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance is not met for financial measures and the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30 per cent of maximum opportunity.
The Committee retains the right to change the measures and weighting of those measures, including following feedback from regulators, shareholders and or other stakeholders.
The Committee is, however, committed to providing transparency in its decision making in respect of bonus awards and will disclose historic target and measure information together with information relating to how the Group has performed against those targets in the Implementation Report for the relevant year unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentive plan Purpose and link Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups longer-term objectives, to align executive interests with those to strategy of shareholders and to retain key individuals.
Operation Awards are made in the form of conditional shares or nil cost options.
Award levels are set at the time of grant, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and may be subject to a discount in determining total variable remuneration under the rules set by the European Banking Authority EBA.
Vesting will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a period of three years, or such longer period, as determined by the Committee.
On vesting, Executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid during the vesting period on shares vesting.
The Committee retains full discretion to amend the payout levels should the award not reflect business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce including to zero the level of the award, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Executive Directors are required to hold the shares which vest for a further two years.
Maximum potential The maximum annual award for Executive Directors will normally be 300 per cent of salary excluding dividend equivalents this being the reference salary in the case of the GCE.
Under the plan rules, awards can be made up to 400 per cent of salary in exceptional circumstances excluding dividend equivalents.
86 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Performance measures Measures and targets are set by the Committee annually and are set out in the Implementation Report each year.
At least 60 per cent of awards are weighted towards typical market e. g. Total Shareholder Return TSR and or financial measures e. g. economic profit, with the balance on strategic measures.
25 per cent will vest for threshold performance and 50 per cent for on-target performance.
The measures are chosen to support the Best Bank for Customers strategy and to align management and shareholder interests.
Targets are set by the Committee to be stretching within the context of the strategic business plan.
Measures are selected to balance profitability, achievement of strategic goals and to ensure the incentive does not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee and limited details can therefore be provided in the remuneration policy.
For future awards, the Committee will disclose in the Implementation Report for the relevant year historic measure and target information, together with how the Group has performed against those targets, unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up a holding of a value of 200 per cent of base salary and fixed share award for the GCE and 150 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Details of holding are shown in the Implementation Report.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FOR CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below sets out the remuneration policy that has been applied to Non-Executive Directors NEDs from the date of the AGM in 2014.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link To provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain a high-calibre individual with the relevant skills, knowledge to strategy and experience.
Operation The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board with regards to the Chairmans fees.
The Chairman does not participate in these discussions.
The GCE and the Chairman are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the fees of the NEDs.
When determining fee levels, the following are considered: The individuals skills and experience.
Comparable fees at FTSE companies of a similar size to Lloyds Banking Group, including the major UK banks.
The Chairman receives an all inclusive fee, which is reviewed periodically plus benefits including life insurance, car allowance, medical insurance and transportation.
NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for the chairmanship membership of committees and for membership of Group companies boards non-board level committees.
Additional fees are also paid to the senior independent director and to the deputy chairman to reflect additional responsibilities.
Any increases normally take effect from 1 January of a given year.
When determining and reviewing fee and benefit levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective sizing methodologies.
The Chairman and the NEDs are not entitled to receive any payment for loss of office other than in the case of the Chairmans fees for the six month notice period and are not entitled to participate in the Groups bonus, share plan or pension arrangements.
NEDs are reimbursed for expenses and any tax arising from these expenses.
Where appropriate, the Group will also meet the costs and any tax arising from travel for business purposes.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in fees or benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Performance metrics N A SERVICE AGREEMENTS The service contracts of all current Executive Directors are terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the individual.
The Chairman also has a service agreement.
His engagement may be terminated on six months notice by either the Group or the individual.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 87 Governance Directors remuneration report continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION REPORT CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management and material risk takers.
The Committees purpose is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is aligned with its long-term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite, values and the long-term interests of the Group that recognises the interests of relevant stakeholders.
A full list of the Committees responsibilities is detailed in its terms of reference, which can be found on our website at www.
com The Committee is comprised of Non-Executive Directors from a wide background to provide a balanced and independent view on remuneration matters.
The members of the Committee during 2014 were: Anthony Watson chairman Lord Blackwell Sir Winfried Bischoff retired April 2014 Carolyn Fairbairn Anita Frew also chairman of the Board Risk Committee from May 2014 from May 2014 Dyfrig John from June 2014 David Roberts also chairman of the Board Risk Committee until May 2014 retired May 2014 Sara Weller During 2014, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
The Committee met 11 times and considered the following principal matters: Review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives Determination of the appropriate remuneration packages for a number of senior new hires Determination of bonus pools based on Group performance and adjustment for risk Performance conditions for the Long-Term Incentive Plan Bonus and salary awards for Executive Directors and key senior managers Approval of remuneration and terms of service that fall within the Committees terms of reference, including new hires Feedback from the Committee Chairman on his meetings with the PRA and shareholders Oversight and approval of revised bonus and performance adjustment methodology and process Consideration of remuneration governance in light of regulatory changes Committee members are thanked for their commitment during the last year and attendance at meetings.
The Committee appoints independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
During the year, Deloitte LLP advised the Committee.
Deloitte was appointed as remuneration consultants by the Committee following a competitive tendering process.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
The Committee has evaluated Deloitte during 2014 and concluded that it was effective in providing objective and independent advice to the Committee.
In particular, it was recognised that Deloitte had the requisite knowledge and provided relevant external updates which enabled the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
Deloitte is not connected with the Group.
Deloittes fees for services to the Committee in 2014 were on a time and materials basis and amounted to 526,000.
In addition, Deloitte LLP provided the Group with advice on taxation and other consulting services, and assurance services.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive, Rupert McNeil Group HR Director, Paul Hucknall HR Director, Performance & Reward and Chris Evans Director, Performance and Reward Governance provided guidance to the Committee other than for their own remuneration.
Juan Colombs Chief Risk Officer and George Culmer Chief Financial Officer also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary on risk and financial matters.
The Committee is satisfied that its processes are robust and diligent and that the Groups remuneration and incentive plans conform to best practice standards.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The proposals on the Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration offered to our Executive Directors in 2014 were detailed within the Directors remuneration report for 2013 and were voted on at the 2014 AGM.
The shareholder votes submitted at the meeting, either directly, by mail or by proxy, were as follows: Votes Votes cast in favour Votes cast against withheld Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of shares millions votes cast shares millions votes cast shares millions Remuneration policy 48,261 97.97% 999 2.03% 1,391 Remuneration implementation report 43,788 87.26% 6,395 12.74% 468 88 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, we are committed to an ongoing dialogue with our shareholders.
Shareholders have different views, notably on incentive scheme design and whilst we do take all comments into consideration, there will inevitably be some diverging views.
One of the observations was that the introduction of Fixed Share Awards for Executive Directors in 2014 was not accompanied by a sufficient reduction in total remuneration to reflect increased certainty of rewards.
The Committee considered this point and ensured that the expected value of bonus awards was reduced so that total remuneration remained consistent for equivalent levels of performance.
It also maintained the value of long-term incentives and instead made significant reductions to short-term bonus opportunity, thereby further weighting reward towards long-term performance.
The Committee is satisfied that its approach, and the revised maximum remuneration opportunity, is positioned conservatively against peers and will provide a fair and competitive level of remuneration for outstanding performance.
The Committee believes that the structure of the Groups remuneration is appropriate, given the regulatory requirements.
We have consulted extensively with our major shareholders but we also welcome feedback from all of our shareholders on our remuneration arrangements and on this report.
In line with the Groups drive for providing greater transparency where appropriate, this report provides as much detail as possible unless deemed to be commercially sensitive.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY IN 2015 It is proposed to operate our policy in the following way in 2015: Base salary In line with our policy, when determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
We are proposing a 2.5 per cent overall salary budget increase for the general population differentiated by performance and market position increases generally range from 0 per cent to 6.5 per cent.
The three Executive Directors have made significant contributions to the Groups success, as reflected in their risk-adjusted performance ratings in 2014, but there is no increase proposed for the Group Chief Executive.
Salary increases of 2 per cent are, however, proposed for the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer.
Salaries with effect from 1 January 2015 will therefore be as follows: Group Chief Executive GCE : 1,061,000 Chief Financial Officer CFO : 734,400 Chief Risk Officer CRO : 724,200 As disclosed in previous reports, since his appointment, the Group Chief Executive has a reference salary of 1.22 million which is used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Fixed Share Awards were introduced in 2014 in order to ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with Fixed share award role and to provide a competitive reward package for Executive Directors, with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
The actual levels of award set for 2015 are as follows which will be released in shares over a five year period : GCE: 900,000 CFO: 504,000 CRO: 497,000 Shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
In line with the remuneration policy, Executive Directors are entitled to a cash allowance in lieu of pension Pension contributions.
The level of allowances has not been increased for 2015.
GCE: 50 per cent of reference salary less flexible benefit allowance CFO: 25 per cent of base salary CRO: 25 per cent of base salary The GCE is also entitled to the provision of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS, subject to performance conditions, as described further in the Implementation Report.
For 2015, the benefits provided to Executive Directors include a car allowance, transportation, private medical Benefits insurance, life assurance and other benefits selected through the flexible benefit allowance which is capped at 4 per cent of base salary.
The CROs benefits in respect of relocation ended in January 2014.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 89 Governance Directors remuneration report continued All employee plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave and Sharematch scheme on the same basis as other employees.
Annual bonus Opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 140 per cent of base salary for the GCE and 100 per cent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance for the financial measure is not met and the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
Performance measures For 2015 the annual bonus will be based on: and targets Financial underlying profit 50 per cent Balanced scorecard BSC objectives comprising five categories finance, building the business, customer, risk and people 50 per cent The Committee considers the targets that apply to these measures to be commercially sensitive but will provide information on the level of payout relative to the performance achieved in next years Implementation Report.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance in determining the final BSC rating.
A revised performance adjustment policy has been fully implemented.
Performance adjustment is determined by the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee and may result in a reduction of up to 100 per cent of the bonus opportunity.
The Independent Performance Adjustment Committee IPAC reviews the balanced scorecard outcomes and submits a report to the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee to assist in this process.
The application of performance adjustment will generally be considered when: there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour, misconduct or material error or that they participated in conduct which resulted in losses for the Group or failed to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division and or business unit level: the financial results at a Group, division or business unit level are re-stated or consideration is given to restatement: the Committee determines that the financial results for a given year do not support the level of variable remuneration awarded: and or any other circumstances where the Committee consider adjustments should be made.
Individual performance adjustment is informed using a matrix-based approach taking into account the severity of the issue, the individuals proximity to the issue and the individuals behaviour in relation to the issue.
In addition, the annual bonus may be subject to clawback up to seven years after the date of award.
Long-term incentive plan Opportunity The maximum annual long-term incentive award for Executive Directors is 300 per cent of salary.
Awards in 2015 will be made as follows: GCE: 300 per cent of reference salary CFO: 275 per cent of base salary CRO: 275 per cent of base salary Performance measures 2015 awards will be subject to a three-year performance period, and a two-year holding period following vesting.
and targets During 2014 and early 2015, the Committee consulted widely with various shareholders on appropriate performance measures and, in particular, on how management can be incentivised through the long-term incentive plan to successfully deliver the objectives set out in the Group Strategic Review.
The awards made in 2015 will vest based on Lloyds Banking Groups performance against the following key measures: Economic profit 25 per cent Absolute Total Shareholder Return 30 per cent Cost:income ratio 10 per cent Strategic measures 35 per cent The following table provides a breakdown of these measures and the targets applicable.
We believe these measures capture risk management and profit growth and appropriately align management and shareholder interests.
LTIP awards may be subject to clawback up to seven years after the date of award.
The scenarios in which the Committee may consider performance adjustment clawback are outlined in the annual bonus section above.
90 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic focus Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Delivering Absolute Total Shareholder Return TSR Growth in share price including Threshold: 8% pa 30% sustainable dividends over 3 year period Maximum: 16% pa growth Becoming simpler Economic profit Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 2,870m 25% and more efficient Maximum: 3,587m Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 45.6% 10% Maximum: 44.5% Creating the Customer complaint handling total FCA Average performance over 3 year period Threshold: 1.15 10% 1 best customer reportable complaints per 1,000 accounts complaints per 1,000 experience accounts and 32% and FOS uphold rate Financial Ombudsman Service FOS Maximum: 1.05 uphold rate complaints per 1,000 accounts and 28% FOS uphold rate Net promoter score Major Group average ranking over 2017 Threshold: 3rd 10% Maximum: 1st Digital active customer growth Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 12.7m 7.5% active users Maximum: 13.3m active users Colleague engagement score Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 62% 7.5% Maximum: 70% 1 Measure excludes PPI complaints and any complaints received via Claims Management Companies, but includes Banking, Home Finance, General Insurance, Life, Pensions and Investment complaints.
With regard to the economic profit measure, which remains a core financial measure, the Group is currently reviewing the calculation methodology for financial reporting purposes in order to better align with current expectations of the Groups forward-looking plan, including the Groups capital requirement and asset quality ratio.
We are seeking to complete this review as soon as possible and will consult with shareholders in respect of any proposed changes during 2015.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES IN 2015 The annual fee for the Chairman is unchanged at 700,000.
The annual Non-Executive Director fees were last reviewed in 2013 and have remained unchanged since 1 July 2013: 2014 2015 Basic fee 65,000 65,000 Deputy Chairman 100,000 100,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairmanship 50,000 50,000 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 50,000 50,000 Board Risk Committee Chairmanship 50,000 50,000 Audit Committee membership 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee membership 20,000 20,000 Board Risk Committee membership 20,000 20,000 1 Nomination & Governance Committee membership 5,000 5,000 1 Where individual is not already Chairman of another Committee.
Non-Executive Directors may receive more than one of the above fees.
For 2015, the benefits provided to the Chairman include a car allowance, medical insurance, life insurance and transportation.
The following pages contain information that is required to be audited in compliance with the Directors remuneration requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 91 Governance Directors remuneration report continued REMUNERATION OUTCOME FOR 2014 Executive directors audited The following table summarises the total remuneration delivered during 2014 in relation to service as an Executive Director.
The breakdown of payments made in cash and contributions into the pension scheme are shown below.
Note that the amount for 2013 in respect of George Culmer includes 106,000 carried over from 2012 and delivered in 2013.
2 Other remuneration payments comprise contractual cash payments to George Culmer as part of the buyout of benefits from his previous employer and income from all employee share plans, which arises through employer matching or discounting of employee purchases up to a maximum of 960 per annum.
3 In addition to deferral and performance adjustment, the GCEs bonus will only vest if the Groups share price remains above 75.5 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the UK government sells 100 per cent of its shareholding in the Group at any time during the three years following grant.
If either condition is met earlier than the third anniversary of grant, vesting will still only occur on the third anniversary.
In this event, the award will be subject to a further two year holding period following vesting up to a maximum of five years in total.
4 The long-term incentive vesting was confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 25 February 2015.
The closing share price on that date of 79.24 pence has been used to calculate the value.
The shares were awarded in 2012 based on a share price of 34.786 pence.
5 The GCE has a conditional unfunded pension commitment, subject to share price performance.
This was a partial buyout of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander.
It is an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
The UURBS provides benefits on a defined benefit basis at a normal retirement date of 65.
The UURBS applies for a maximum of six years following the commencement of employment and the maximum allowance over that period is 26.5 per cent of the higher of the GCEs base salary and reference salary in the 12 months before retirement or leaving, subject to performance conditions.
No additional benefit is due in the event of early retirement.
The rate of pension accrual in each year depends on share price conditions being met.
An annual pension entitlement of 35,610 was accrued in 2014.
6 Amounts shown for 2013 reflect the period from 29 November 2013 when Juan Colombs was appointed as an Executive Director.
Under terms agreed when joining the Group, the CRO is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit of 718,996 either i on reaching normal retirement age unless the CRO voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long term sickness or health.
Pension and benefits audited Pension Benefit Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Juan Colombs Employer contribution to pension scheme 10,670 20,900 21,717 Cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution 556,890 159,100 151,470 Car or car allowance 12,000 10,660 12,000 Flexible benefits payments 42,440 28,800 25,640 Private medical insurance 27,293 760 12,406 Transportation 37,280 1,634 Relocation 8,333 92 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ANNUAL BONUS The 2014 annual bonus outcome for Lloyds Banking Group excluding TSB was determined by adjusting the Groups target outcome 400 million in 2014 according to: Group underlying profit performance: a target of 5,615 million was approved by the Board in advance of the performance year, with threshold and maximum set at 20 per cent above and below target.
The outcome for 2014 was as follows: Threshold On-Target Maximum Underlying profit 4,492m 5,615m 6,738m 7,756m Actual Balanced Scorecard performance: stretching objectives for each division were approved by the Remuneration Committee around the start of the performance year.
The objectives were aligned to the Groups strategy and split across five categories: Financial Building the business Customer service Risk People development Balanced Scorecard ratings are based on a scale ranging from Under at the lowest level, through Developing, Good, Strong and up to Top which is the highest rating.
Each of these ratings may be further differentiated by the addition of minus or plus.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed performance in depth to determine ratings for the Group and each division, including consideration of risk matters arising in 2014.
The overall rating for the Group was Strong: Under Developing Good Strong Top Balanced Scorecard Collective performance adjustment: consideration was given to items not factored into the Group underlying profit or divisional balanced scorecards.
These included the provisions for legacy conduct-related matters and regulatory settlements on LIBOR and Repo rate setting.
It also considered positive factors, such as non-core disposals, the SWIP sale, the TSB separation IPO and the reduction in government shareholding.
As a result of these items, the Remuneration Committee applied an overall adjustment of approximately 25 per cent, resulting in a final bonus outcome of 369.5 million a reduction of 3.6 per cent from the total outcome in 2013 after adjusting for TSB.
To ensure fairness for our shareholders, the total bonus outcome is subject to a limit of 10 per cent of pre-bonus underlying profit.
For 2014, the bonus outcome of 369.5 million is significantly below the limit of 813 million.
Individual outcomes for Executive Directors The individual bonus awards for Executive Directors are determined in the same way as for colleagues across the Group, with outcomes based on: Group underlying profit performance Balanced Scorecard performance Collective performance adjustment Individual performance On-target award Awards are approved by the Remuneration Committee, which has discretion to adjust outcomes for any reason.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 93 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Antnio Horta-Osrio The Group Chief Executives individual performance assessment for 2014, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Strong financial performance: underlying profit increased by 26 per cent to 7,756 million in 2014 and statutory profit increased from 415 million to 1,762 million.
Successful completion of the TSB IPO in June 2014 and further successful sell down of the governments holding to below 25 per cent.
Successful development of new 2015-2017 strategic plan for the Group.
Customer dashboards implemented across the Group and improvements in Net Promoter Scores our measure of the customer experience, although there has been an increase in FCA reportable complaints.
Continued progress in conduct strategy, although further work is required to continue to drive cultural improvements.
Completion of simplification programme cost savings of 449 million realised in 2014.
Continued improvement in strengthening the balance sheet and reducing risk: pro forma fully loaded common equity tier 1 ratio increasing by 2.5 percentage points to 12.8 per cent.
Exceeded PRA stress testing threshold measure of 4.5 per cent.
Over 39 billion of gross new lending to British customers was committed during 2014 under the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2014 of Strong for the Group Chief Executive.
The introduction of the Fixed Share Awards in 2014 resulted in a reduction in the annual bonus opportunity for the Group Chief Executive the maximum award reduced from 225 per cent to 140 per cent of base salary.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Group balanced scorecard, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 42% 91% 140% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and Group balanced scorecard objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 24.9 per cent and the individual rating of Strong, the Committee determined a 2014 bonus award to the Group Chief Executive of 800,000 75 per cent of base salary.
In arriving at this award, the Committee exercised its discretion to apply a reduction to reflect the external environment.
George Culmer The Chief Financial Officers personal performance assessment for 2014, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Effective management and contribution to underlying income and profit to ensure they were significantly ahead of target.
Ensuring Core Tier 1 and cost:income ratios were strong ratios at end of 2014 were 12.8 per cent and 51.2 per cent respectively.
Excellent management and delivery of the Group Strategic Review.
Positive performance in Risk Appetite status, material regulatory breaches and audit actions, although delivery of regulatory change programmes has been challenging.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2014 of Strong for the Chief Financial Officer.
The introduction of the Fixed Share Awards in 2014 resulted in a reduction in the annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer the maximum award reduced from 200 per cent to 100 per cent.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Group balanced scorecard, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Finance functions balanced scorecard objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 24.9 per cent and the individual rating of Strong, the Committee determined a 2014 bonus award to the Chief Financial Officer of 496,000 69 per cent of base salary.
94 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Juan Colombs The Chief Risk Officers personal performance assessment for 2014, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Good progress across the Board Risk Appetite, although legacy issues continue to present challenges.
Maintaining high level of responsiveness to our regulators with whom we strive for a strong working relationship.
Improvements in mitigating operational risks and regulatory breaches.
Driving progress in conduct strategy.
Leading remediation of legacy issues.
Positive achievements in impairment charge, reduction in non-core assets, RWAs and leverage ratio.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2014 of Strong for the Chief Risk Officer.
The introduction of the Fixed Share Awards in 2014 resulted in a reduction in the annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Risk Officer the maximum award reduced from 200 per cent to 100 per cent of base salary.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance, before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Risk divisions balanced scorecard, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Risk divisions balanced scorecard objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 24.9 per cent and the individual rating of Strong, the Committee determined a 2014 bonus award to the Chief Risk Officer of 467,892 66 per cent of base salary.
Application of the Committees judgement As described above, the Committee used its judgement to apply a collective adjustment to reflect the level of provisions for legacy conduct related matters.
As with the bonus outcome determination for the wider Group, the Committee retains the discretion to adjust for other factors when determining individual awards, such as market relativity, year-on-year performance, stakeholder views, the statutory profit and the Groups capital position.
For 2014, the Committee exercised discretion by applying a reduction to the award for the Group Chief Executive.
The bonuses awarded are summarised in the table below: Name Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Juan Colombs Maximum opportunity % of base salary 140% 100% 100% % awarded for 2014 as % of maximum 54% 69% 66% Bonus awarded for 2014 800,000 496,000 467,892 Deferral The Group Chief Executives award is deferred into shares for five years and subject to performance adjustment and clawback.
The award is subject to an additional condition that the share price must remain above 75.5 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the UK government sells 100 per cent of its shareholding during the three years following grant.
The award will be subject to a further holding period following vesting such that, in any event, the award will release no earlier than five years after grant.
If neither of the conditions has been met by the fifth anniversary of the award, the award will lapse entirely.
Consistent with the aim of ensuring that short-term financial results are only rewarded if they promote sustainable growth, the 2014 annual bonus is subject to deferral in shares until at least 2018.
This deferred amount is subject to performance adjustment malus.
Bonus awards for other Executive Directors are deferred into shares until at least March 2017 and subject to performance adjustment and clawback.
They are also subject to remaining in the Groups employment, as set out in the approved policy from the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Group has implemented clawback, covering all Remuneration Code Staff, in line with PRA requirements.
Vested variable remuneration can be recovered from employees up to seven years after the date of award in the case of a material or severe risk event.
Clawback will be used alongside other performance adjustment processes and applies to variable remuneration awarded from 1 January 2015.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if it deems appropriate.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 95 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Long-term awards made in March 2012 vesting for the period ended on December 2014 The Groups financial performance over the three year performance period was very strong, with significant shareholder value created as the Groups market capitalisation trebled from c. 18 billion to c. 54 billion.
Awards were granted in shares at 34.786 pence so the increase over the period has more than doubled the value for recipients in line with the increase realised by shareholders.
At the end of the performance period, it has been assessed that awards will vest at 96.6 per cent of maximum.
Vesting at Vesting at Actual Vesting % of Threshold Maximum threshold maximum performance maximum 1 Economic profit 30% of award 225m 2,330m 25% 100% 2,094m 26.6% Absolute total shareholder return 12% per 30% per 30% of award annum annum 25% 100% 30.2% 30.0% Short-term funding as a percentage of total funding 10% of award 20% 15% 25% 100% 7.0% 10.0% Non-core assets at end of 2014 10% of award 95bn 80bn 25% 100% 47.1bn 10.0% Net simplification benefits 10% of award 1.5bn 1.8bn 25% 100% 2.0bn 10.0% 2 Customer satisfaction 10% of award 1.5 1.3 25% 100% 1.2 10.0% 1 Economic profit threshold and maximum targets were initially set at 160 million and 1,653 million respectively.
These were subsequently increased by the Committee.
2 Customer satisfaction target is based on the average reportable complaints per 1,000 customers over the three year period.
Percentage change in remuneration of GCE versus the wider employee population Figures for All Employees are calculated using figures for UK-based colleagues subject to the Group Annual Bonus Plan.
This population is considered to be the most appropriate group of employees for these purposes because its remuneration structure is consistent with that of the Group Chief Executive.
% change in % change in % change in base salary bonus benefits 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Group Chief Executive 0% 52.9 % 5.3% 1 1 1 All Employees 2.5% 4.8% 2.5% 1 Adjusted for movements in staff numbers and other impacts to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Relative spend on pay m Underlying 2014 7,756 profit 2013 6,166 Dividend 2014 0 0 2013 Salaries & 2014 3,568 performance based 2013 3,807 compensation Underlying profit has been used for comparison on the basis that it reflects performance, excluding legacy issues and one-off events.
Payments within the reporting year to past directors audited As part of arrangements on leaving the Group, deferred bonus was released to Tim Tookey 135,879.
Loss of office payments audited There were no payments for the loss of office made to former Directors during 2014.
96 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees Taxable benefits Total 000 000 000 Current Non-Executive Directors 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 1 Lord Blackwell 580 233 9 589 233 Alan Dickinson appointed September 2014 33 33 Carolyn Fairbairn 105 103 105 103 Anita Frew 202 105 202 105 Simon Henry appointed June 2014 53 53 Dyfrig John appointed January 2014 105 105 Nick Luff 135 108 135 108 Nick Prettejohn appointed June 2014 182 182 Anthony Watson 215 204 215 204 Sara Weller 123 103 123 103 Former Non-Executive Directors 2 3 Sir Winfried Bischoff retired April 2014 183 700 10 17 193 717 David Roberts retired May 2014 95 248 95 248 Total 2,011 1,804 19 17 2,030 1,821 1 2014 taxable benefits are made up of car allowance of 8,909.
2 2014 taxable benefits are made up of car allowance of 3,136, private medical benefit of 608, and transportation of 6,693.
3 2013 taxable benefits are made up of car allowance of 12,000, private medical benefit of 566, and transportation of 4,864.
Breakdown of Non-Executive Directors fees 000s Senior Deputy Independent Audit Remuneration Board Risk SWG board Other 2014 1 Board fee Chairman Director committee committee committee fees fees Total 4 Lord Blackwell 16 5 5 33 59 Alan Dickinson 21 6 6 33 Carolyn Fairbairn 65 20 20 105 2 Anita Frew 65 63 20 13 39 2 202 Simon Henry 33 10 10 53 Dyfrig John 65 20 20 105 Nick Luff 65 50 20 135 Nick Prettejohn 34 10 10 128 182 Anthony Watson 65 60 20 50 20 215 3 Sara Weller 65 20 20 18 123 1 Scottish Widows Group Ltd. 2 Fees for membership of Nomination & Governance Committee.
3 Fees for chairing the Responsible Business Steering Group and the Finance Inclusion Committee non-Board level committees.
4 The fees shown in the table above reflect the period of service prior to becoming Chairman of the Board.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 97 Governance Directors remuneration report continued HISTORICAL TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR PERFORMANCE The chart below shows the historical TSR of Lloyds Banking Group plc compared with the FTSE 100 as required by the regulations, rebased as at 31 December 2008.
The FTSE 100 index has been chosen as it is a widely recognised equity index of which Lloyds Banking Group plc has been a constituent throughout this period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INDICES LLOYDS BANKING GROUP AND FTSE 100 Lloyds return index FTSE 100 return index Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2008.
Source: Deloitte HISTORICAL GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GCE REMUNERATION OUTCOMES GCE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 J E Daniels 1,121 2,572 855 GCE single figure of remuneration 000 Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,765 3,398 7,475 11,544 J E Daniels Waived 62% 0% Annual bonus payout % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio Waived 62% 71% 54% J E Daniels 0% 0% 0% Long-term incentive vesting % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio 0% 0% 54% 97% Notes: J E Daniels served as GCE until 28 February 2011: Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed GCE from 1 March 2011.
J E Daniels declined to take a bonus in 2009 and Antnio Horta-Osrio declined to take a bonus in 2011.
98 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS Directors interests audited Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up a holding in Lloyds Banking Group plc shares of value equal to 150 per cent of base salary and fixed share award 200 per cent for the GCE and are expected to achieve these targets within three years from the later of 1 January 2012 and their date of joining the Board.
They are required to retain any shares vesting from LTIP awards granted from 2012 onwards for a further two years post vesting although vested shares would count towards the shareholding requirement.
Members of the Executive Committee are required to build up a shareholding of 100 per cent of their gross salary.
As at 31 December 2014, all Executive Directors significantly exceeded the requirements.
4 Number of shares Number of options Total shareholding Value Expected Unvested Unvested value at subject to Unvested subject to Totals at Totals at 31 December Owned continued subject to continued Vested 31 December 26 February 2014 2 outright employment performance employment unexercised 2014 2015 000s Executive Directors 1 3 1 Antnio Horta-Osrio 6,204,884 5,168,008 21,710,202 37,151 33,120,245 33,120,660 16,881 3 George Culmer 1,232,436 2,573,846 11,184,291 37,151 4,460,003 19,487,727 19,488,142 10,536 3 Juan Colombs 3,101,794 2,205,384 9,957,127 29,990 535,231 15,829,526 15,829,940 8,227 Non-Executive Directors Lord Blackwell 50,000 50,000 n a n a Alan Dickinson 50,000 50,000 n a n a Carolyn Fairbairn 40,000 40,000 n a n a Anita Frew 300,000 300,000 n a n a Simon Henry n a n a Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 n a n a Nick Luff 200,000 200,000 n a n a Nick Prettejohn n a n a Anthony Watson 476,357 476,357 n a n a Sara Weller 200,000 200,000 n a n a 1 Shareholdings held by Antnio Horta-Osrio are either wholly or partially in the form of ADRs.
2 Awards subject to performance under the Long-Term Incentive Plan had an expected value of 50 per cent of face value at grant using current accounting assumptions.
Values are based on the 31 December 2014 closing price of 75.82 pence.
Full face value of awards are 25,111,769 for Antnio Horta-Osrio, 14,775,594 for George Culmer and 12,001,946 for Juan Colombs.
3 The changes in beneficial interests for Antnio Horta-Osrio 415 shares, George Culmer 415 shares and Juan Colombs 414 shares relate to partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2014 and 26 February 2015.
There have been no other changes up to 26 February 2015.
4 Including holdings of connected persons.
A summary of transactions undertaken in the year, including share plan awards vested plus open market purchases and sales made by Directors, is shown on page 103.
As a result of the above shareholdings, the position for each Executive Director is as follows: Shareholding requirement Current shareholding Base salary % of % of plus fixed base salary base salary Number of share award plus fixed Number of plus fixed shares Requirement 1 1 2 000s share award shares share award as at 31 12 14 met Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,961 200% 5,172,778 240% 6,204,884 Yes George Culmer 1,224 150% 2,421,525 353% 5,692,439 Yes Juan Colombs 1,207 150% 2,387,892 228% 3,637,025 Yes 1 Number of shares required and current shareholding percentage of base salary figures are calculated using the 31 12 14 closing price of 75.82 pence.
2 Shares owned outright plus vested but unexercised options have been used to calculate current shareholding figures.
None of those who were Directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 99 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Breakdown of shares interests audited Long-term incentive plan awarded in 2014 Awards in the form of conditional rights to free shares in 2014 were made over shares with a value of 300 per cent of reference salary for the GCE 4,640,077 shares with a face value of 3,660,000 : 275 per cent for the CFO 2,510,205 shares with a face value of 1,980,000 : and 275 per cent for the CRO 2,234,780 shares with a face value of 1,762,750.
The share price used to calculate face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 17 March to 21 March 2014, which was 78.878 pence.
This was the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are set out in the table below.
The performance period ends on 31 December 2016.
Category Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Financial Economic profit Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 2,154m 30% Maximum: 3,231m Absolute TSR Growth in share price including dividends Threshold: 8% pa 30% over 3 year period Maximum: 16% pa Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 48.9% 10% Maximum: 46.5% Customer Customer satisfaction Set relative to 2016 targets Threshold: 1.15 10% total FCA reportable Maximum: 1.05 1 complaints per 1,000 accounts Net promoter score Major Group average ranking over 2016 Threshold: 3rd 10% Maximum: 1st Helping Britain SME lending Set relative to targets for SME lending Threshold: 14% 5% Prosper growth over 3 year period Maximum: 18% Share of first-time Set relative to targets for market share Threshold: 20% 5% buyer market over 3 year period Maximum: 25% 1 Measure excludes PPI complaints, but includes Banking, Home Finance, General Insurance, Life, Pensions and Investment complaints.
The targets referred to in the table relate to the Groups strategic plan, as approved by the Board.
Further details have not been provided for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but will be disclosed after vesting.
For each measure, 25 per cent will vest for threshold performance, 50 per cent for on-target performance and 100 per cent for maximum performance.
SAYE interests awarded in 2014 The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Groups sharesave and sharematch plans.
In 2014, the GCE and CFO were each granted SAYE options over 14,995 shares and the CRO was granted SAYE options over 29,990 shares with an exercise price of 60.02 pence per share and a face value of 11,276 and 22,552 respectively.
The share price used to calculate the face value is the price on grant 2 October 2014, which was 75.2 pence.
Deferred bonus awarded in 2014 Bonus is deferred into shares.
The face value of the share awards in respect of bonuses granted in March 2014 was 1.7 million 2,155,227 shares for the GCE: 910,000 1,153,680 shares for the CFO: and 860,000 1,090,290 shares for the CRO.
Awards are consistent with those forfeited and have a nil option price.
2 Executive share award granted on 6 August 2012 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving RSA Insurance Group plc.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 74.34 pence.
None of the other directors at 31 December 2014 had options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The market price for a share in the Group at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 was 79.12 pence and 75.82 pence, respectively.
The range of prices between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 was 70.94 pence to 86.3 pence.
Lloyds Banking Group long-term incentive plan audited The following table shows conditional shares awarded under the plan.
Further information regarding this plan can be found on pages 90 and 100.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 81.35 pence.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 101 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Additional disclosures 1 Emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives The following table sets out the emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives excluding Executive Directors in respect of the 2014 performance year.
Variable pay in respect of performance year 2014.
LTIP values shown reflect awards for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2014.
Pension costs based on a percentage of salary according to level.
102 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors interests summary of awards vested, purchases and sales made by directors in 2014 unaudited Holding at 1 January 2014 Holding at or appointment Transactions Number of 31 December Date during the year shares Notes 2014 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,411,685 07 03 14 2,043,736 Release of 2011 LTIP Exercise of Share Buy Out 28 03 14 2,118,332 award 27 06 14 315,330 Fixed Share Award 25 09 14 156,416 Fixed Share Award 19 12 14 156,990 Fixed Share Award Share Incentive Plan purchase and Monthly 2,395 matching shares 6,204,884 George Culmer 877,951 27 06 14 176,584 Fixed Share Award 25 09 14 87,592 Fixed Share Award 19 12 14 87,914 Fixed Share Award Share Incentive Plan purchase and Monthly 2,395 matching shares 1,232,436 Release of 2010, 2011 and Juan Colombs 1,409,048 07 03 14 231,604 2012 Deferred Bonus 07 03 14 881,940 Release of 2011 LTIP 27 06 14 174,132 Fixed Share Award Release of 2010, 2011 and 03 09 14 231,604 2012 Deferred Bonus 25 09 14 86,376 Fixed Share Award 19 12 14 86,693 Fixed Share Award Share Incentive Plan purchase and Monthly 397 matching shares 3,101,794 Non-Executive Directors Lord Blackwell 50,000 50,000 Alan Dickinson 50,000 50,000 Carolyn Fairbairn 21 05 14 40,000 Purchase 40,000 Anita Frew 300,000 300,000 Simon Henry Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 Nick Luff 80,000 16 05 14 120,000 Purchase 200,000 Nick Prettejohn Anthony Watson 476,357 476,357 Sara Weller 150,000 11 03 14 50,000 Purchase 200,000 On behalf of the Board Anthony Watson, CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 103
