70 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 December 2014.
The Committee has taken this change into account when making remuneration decisions relating to the bonus and LTIP awards, as explained later in this report.
Key remuneration decisions Adjusted operating profit is up 20 per cent at 514.7 million Adjusted basic EPS is up two per cent at 107.1 pence The Group has had a strong year increasing its global footprint and diversifying its service offering which has delivered an increase in revenue, operating profits and market capitalisation.
This performance has been achieved through the execution of the Groups strategy including the Robert Webb completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in the global clearing house, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee LCH.
Clearnet Group and the work to integrate them further into the Group: building best in class capabilities through innovative solutions in post trade, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration information services and capital markets: creating a global business with Report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
This is the first year that we expanded reach through FTSE, MTS, MillenniumIT and now LCH.
Clearnet: are presenting under the new remuneration reporting regime, and developing opportunities through diversification with plans to launch a new subsequently this years report has been split into two separate sections: central securities depository, new derivatives products and continued the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
development of our ELITE programme.
This strong performance is reflected in the bonus outcomes in respect of financial year ended 31 March 2014.
Incentive review As part of the annual review of salaries for Executive Directors, the Committee In 2013, we committed to reviewing our remuneration framework, including has awarded the Chief Executive an increase of four per cent and kept the our Groups LTIP which is due for renewal in July this year.
During the past Chief Financial Officers salary at the same level as last year.
This year the year the Committee has undertaken a comprehensive assessment of our Committee has taken the opportunity to consider the salary level for Raffaele remuneration structure to ensure it continues to support the Groups strategic Jerusalmi, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital priorities.
As part of this process the Committee evaluated the arrangements Markets, in greater detail.
His salary has been increased to 480,000 to reflect against evolving practice.
As a result of this assessment, we are making a the growing breadth and complexity of Mr Jerusalmis role.
Further details are number of changes to our remuneration framework.
However, the overall set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These increases took effect incentive opportunity has not increased.
The key changes are as follows: Concluding remarks Simplification of arrangements by removing the voluntary matching The Committee would like to thank all of our shareholders who took time element and providing one LTIP in future award cycles to provide feedback on our proposed remuneration arrangements for 2014 onwards.
Introduction of a compulsory deferral of 50 per cent of the annual bonus for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 onwards I would also like to extend a warm welcome to Sherry Coutu who has recently Reduction in the threshold level of vesting under the LTIP from 30 per joined the Remuneration Committee after the end of FY13 14. cent to 25 per cent of the maximum At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be provided with three separate Introduction of malus and clawback provisions on future bonus votes relating to remuneration matters: and LTIP awards Alignment of good leaver policy with best practice 1.
Vote on the new Remuneration Policy Report, which is forward looking this is a binding vote.
Increase in the minimum shareholding requirement 2.
Vote on the FY13 14 Annual Report on Remuneration in line with the regulations, this is an advisory vote.
The Group continues to focus on integrating our strategic acquisitions, 3.
Approval of the new 2014 LTIP as the Groups current LTIP will expire in building on our increasingly diverse world class assets and working July 2014. in partnership with our customers to deliver service and product innovation, all of which will contribute towards delivery of profitable The Committee has looked to ensure the Groups approach to remuneration growth.
Subsequently, the Committee has concluded that EPS and TSR takes into account best practice developments and market trends in the remain the most suitable performance metrics for long-term awards.
financial services sectors and wider market while continuing to support the commercial needs of the Group and the interests of shareholders.
We hope As part of the review, the Committee consulted with shareholders throughout that you are able to support these proposals at the AGM.
the process and took their feedback into account.
The overall changes have been widely supported by our major shareholders.
Change in financial year end As announced on 27 March 2014, the Group intends to migrate its financial Robert Webb year to align with the calendar year from 1 January 2015.
This change Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will result in a truncated financial year in 2014 i. e. from 1 April 2014 to STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 71 Summary of key Executive remuneration decisions Audited Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets Name Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi 1 Previous salary 705,000 425,000 435,000 FY13 14 Annual salary with 733,000 4% 425,000 0% 480,000 10% effect from 1 April 2014 Max.
2 FY2014: refers to the period 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014.
3 These proposed LTIP award levels assume grants to be made under the 2004 LTIP together with the additional opportunity to participate in a matching award.
4 Salary here refers to Annual salary with effect from 1 April 2014.
5 The Executive Director is also eligible for this transition year for a grant of matching shares up to 100 per cent of salary dependent on an investment of up to 50 per cent of their net salary.
6 Salary here refers to Previous salary FY13 14.
72 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
This years disclosure has been split into two sections: Remuneration Policy Report pages 74-85 Annual Report on Remuneration pages 86-97 This section contains the remuneration policy that we intend to This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have been apply following the 2014 AGM.
This report will be subject to a operated during the past year, and also provides details on how we binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
intend to operate our policy during the coming year.
This report will be put to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
As the policy is forward looking, this section details how we intend to operate remuneration arrangements in future years.
This section firstly explains how Executives have been paid during the last financial year.
The new incentive structure has been implemented following consultation with the Groups major shareholders.
The new structure In previous years, the Group operated a slightly different incentive structure.
is simpler, and incorporates a number of elements from emerging Subsequently, the awards referenced differ from the structure set out in the best practice.
New incentive structure for Executive Directors overview Previous incentive structure for Executive Directors which will of future approach.
no longer operate in future years.
Annual bonus Annual bonus Annual incentive subject to performance objectives Annual incentive subject to performance objectives for the financial year for the financial year Voluntary bonus deferral Compulsory bonus deferral Executives may invest all or part of their pre-tax bonus Executives must defer 50 per cent of their bonus up to 50 per cent of net salary into Shares for a period of two years Matching Shares Performance Shares Deferred bonus attracts a performance related Awards of Performance Shares which vest Matching Share award subject to three-year performance targets Further changes Malus and clawback Reduced threshold provisions introduced vesting for LTIP Performance Shares Awards of Performance Shares which vest subject to three-year performance targets Increase minimum Alignment of good leaver shareholding requirement treatment with best practice In addition to presenting the Remuneration Policy Report for approval at Matching Shares and Performance Shares under the previous structure the AGM, the Group will also be presenting a new Long Term Incentive were granted under the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan.
This plan Plan to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM.
This new plan expires in July 2014 after which no further awards will be granted under replaces the previous plan that was approved by shareholders in 2004. this arrangement.
Further details regarding the operation of the new plan are set out in the As well as detailing the remuneration arrangements during the year, Notice of AGM.
the Annual Report on Remuneration also details how we intend to operate the new incentive structure in the coming year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 73 Change in financial year As announced on 27 March 2014, the Group intends to migrate the Groups financial year to align with the calendar year from 1 January 2015.
This change will result in a truncated financial year in 2014 i. e. from 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014.
The Committee has taken this change into account when making remuneration decisions relating to the bonus and LTIP awards.
The Committee has carefully considered the impact of the change in financial year on the Groups remuneration framework and has concluded that: Bonus For the financial period ending 31 December 2014, the maximum bonus opportunities will be pro-rated to reflect the shortened period with performance measured over the truncated financial year.
Any bonus payment would be determined by March 2015.
Under the new proposals, 50 per cent of any award would be deferred.
LTIP The vesting period for outstanding long-term share awards will remain unaffected by the change, with no acceleration of vesting.
In addition, no changes to the existing performance metrics are proposed including the annualised growth targets.
The TSR conditions for outstanding awards will continue to be measured over three calendar years from the date of grant.
In line with the performance schedule, EPS would be measured over three financial years while seeking to ensure performance is assessed on a like-for-like basis.
Long-term awards granted in 2012 will vest in June July 2015 using a proxy 12-month financial year for 2014 as closing year for EPS performance measure.
Similarly for awards to be granted in 2015, the Committee will use the same proxy 12-month financial year for 2014 as the baseline year for the EPS measure.
The Committee will assess the performance period for each LTIP grant to ensure no participant is materially advantaged or disadvantaged from the change in year end.
For grants made prior to the 2014 AGM, Executive Directors will be invited to participate in the voluntary matching scheme.
The performance measures for such Performance and Matching Shares will be the same as for awards granted in previous years, as set out on page 85.
For details of legacy arrangements, please also refer to page 85.
74 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Future policy table for Executive Directors ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY A summary of the key elements of remuneration for Executive Directors is shown in the table opposite.
Salary Provides a core element of remuneration which reflects the Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking There is no defined maximum salary.
into account a range of factors, including: This Remuneration Policy Report determined size and scope of the role: Increases are determined based on the by the Groups Remuneration Committee Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals of the factors described in the Operation column.
the Committee, will, if it is approved by skills and experience of the individual: calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
shareholders at the 2014 AGM, be effective market competitiveness relative positioning: The Committees normal approach is to from the date of its approval at that meeting.
initially consider increases within the range performance of the Group and of the individual: awarded to other employees.
More The Group must attract and retain a high calibre wider market and economic conditions: and significant increases may be awarded in senior management team to ensure it is in a certain circumstances, such as where there position to deliver its business plans and maximise level of increases being made across the Group.
is a significant change in the scale, scope or returns for shareholders.
The Group is committed responsibility of a role, development within to paying for performance, rewarding the senior Any changes are normally effective from 1 April a role and or significant market movement.
management team only when its goals are each year.
Each year the remuneration framework The annual base salaries in FY13 14 and and the packages of the Executive Directors FY2014 for each Executive Director are set and members of the Executive Committee are out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
reviewed by the Committee to ensure that they continue to achieve this objective.
In doing so, the Committee takes into account multiple reference Provide local market competitive benefits A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals There is no defined maximum.
Benefits n a points when setting pay including companies in Benefits and support the wellbeing of employees.
have certain core benefits such as private medical, life plans are set at what are in the Committees the FTSE 31-100, the broader Financial Services assurance, income protection and, additionally in Italy opinion reasonable levels in order to be sector as well as other international exchanges.
only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon market competitive for their local vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash jurisdiction and are dependent on individual The Committee has taken the following areas allowance which can be spent on elective benefits circumstances.
into account in establishing the Group such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
remuneration policy: Participation in the Save As You Earn a focus on shareholder value: A chauffeur-driven motor car may also be provided for Option Scheme or international equivalent the continued expansion of the Group Executive Directors where appropriate.
is capped at the same level as all other beyond the UK: participants, which is determined by the Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee Company within the parameters of the need to attract and retain senior reserves the right to provide our Executives with the applicable legislation.
management from the international appropriate level of security arrangements to allow them financial sector which requires to perform their duties in the safest possible conditions.
remuneration packages with a sufficient variable pay component: Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain the Groups intent to be mindful of best affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the practice as expressed by institutional discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits shareholders and their representative as appropriate for example, relocation and other bodies: and allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing the relatively higher profile of the Group assistance and flights back to the home country for the compared with many other quoted companies Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by with similar market capitalisation.
the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
Where necessary any benefits may be grossed up for taxes.
Executives are eligible to participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save As You Earn Option Scheme or international equivalent on the same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and indemnification.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 75 ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY Salary Provides a core element of remuneration which reflects the Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking There is no defined maximum salary.
into account a range of factors, including: size and scope of the role: Increases are determined based on the Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals of the factors described in the Operation column.
skills and experience of the individual: calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
market competitiveness relative positioning: The Committees normal approach is to initially consider increases within the range performance of the Group and of the individual: awarded to other employees.
More wider market and economic conditions: and significant increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there level of increases being made across the Group.
is a significant change in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development within Any changes are normally effective from 1 April a role and or significant market movement.
The annual base salaries in FY13 14 and FY2014 for each Executive Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Provide local market competitive benefits A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals There is no defined maximum.
Benefits n a Benefits and support the wellbeing of employees.
have certain core benefits such as private medical, life plans are set at what are in the Committees assurance, income protection and, additionally in Italy opinion reasonable levels in order to be only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon market competitive for their local vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash jurisdiction and are dependent on individual allowance which can be spent on elective benefits circumstances.
such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
Participation in the Save As You Earn A chauffeur-driven motor car may also be provided for Option Scheme or international equivalent Executive Directors where appropriate.
is capped at the same level as all other participants, which is determined by the Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee Company within the parameters of reserves the right to provide our Executives with the applicable legislation.
appropriate level of security arrangements to allow them to perform their duties in the safest possible conditions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits as appropriate for example, relocation and other allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
76 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY Retirement benefits Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
Provision of annual pension allowance, invested in The maximum annual pension n a Support recruitment and retention of high calibre people.
the Companys defined contribution plan or taken contribution cash allowance is 25 per as a cash allowance.
cent of salary except where determined by local market practice.
In certain jurisdictions, more bespoke pension arrangements may be provided.
In such circumstances, In Italy, Mr Jerusalmi accrues mandatory the Committee will give appropriate consideration to local state pension INPS benefits which are employment legislation, market practices and the cost of calculated on salary, benefits and annual the arrangement.
Actual benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation in force from time to time.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the Group at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
TFR is calculated on salary, capped benefits, annual bonus and LTIP.
Rewards annual performance against challenging financial, The Group operates a Group-wide bonus pool which is Maximum annual bonus opportunity of Based on a combination of financial Annual bonus strategic and individual targets linked to Group strategy.
funded based on the achievement of financial and 225 per cent of salary for CEO and 200 e. g. adjusted operating profit, strategic and strategic goals of the Group.
Allocations to individual per cent of salary for other Executive individual performance targets.
Strategic Deferral reinforces retention and enhances alignment with Executive Directors are made from this pool based on the Directors for maximum performance.
objectives include key targets under the shareholders by encouraging longer term focus and Committees assessment of their individual performance, strategic pillars of building best in class sustainable performance.
taking into account the Groups financial and strategic capabilities, creating a global business and performance and the achievement of any individual developing opportunities.
These strategic objectives related to their role.
objectives also impact financial results in the medium-term.
Performance targets are reviewed and set by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee will set the detail and mix of performance measures, targets and Awards are determined by the Committee after the weighting based on the strategic objectives year end based upon the actual performance against at the start of each year.
At least 50 per these targets.
cent of the targets relating to the annual bonus pool in any year will be subject to The Committee applies judgement where necessary to financial measures.
ensure approved pay-out levels are reflective of actual, overall performance.
No bonuses are paid for below threshold performance.
The Committee may award 50 per cent of the annual bonus will be subject any amount between zero and 100 per cent to mandatory deferral, normally for a period of of the maximum opportunity.
The performance measures are applied in Until the minimum shareholding requirement see the performance year only.
below is reached, bonus deferral will be 100 per cent into shares.
Once the level of minimum shareholding Due to the financial year end change, has been reached, individuals will be able to defer FY2014 will be based on a nine-month 100 per cent into shares, 50 per cent into shares 50 performance period from 1 April 2014 to per cent into cash or 100 per cent into cash.
31 December 2014, followed by a calendar Dividends or equivalents may be paid in respect year from 1 January to 31 December from of deferred shares on vesting.
Further details about the impact of the financial year-end change Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions as can be found on page 73. described below.
Paid bonuses and vested awards are subject to clawback as described below.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 77 ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY Retirement benefits Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
78 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY LTIP Long Term Incentivises performance over the longer term through the Under the new LTIP 2014, which is being put to Although there is a facility for maximum The Committee determines performance Incentive Plan 2014 award of performance related shares.
shareholders for approval at the AGM in 2014, awards of up to 400 per cent of salary under targets each year to ensure that the targets awards of shares or equivalent are granted the plan rules in exceptional cases, it is are stretching and support value creation for Aligns reward with long-term, sustainable Group performance annually subject to performance conditions.
expected that awards under this plan will shareholders while remaining motivational and a focus on shareholder value.
normally be up to 300 per cent of salary.
Awards normally vest subject to performance targets assessed over a performance period, normally of Vesting of awards is subject to achievement at least three financial years.
The Committee has of total shareholder return and financial discretion to set different performance periods if performance targets.
For initial grants under it considers them to be appropriate.
this new LTIP, awards are subject to absolute The Committee shall determine the extent to TSR and adjusted EPS measures.
which the performance measures have been met.
The Committee may make adjustments to Measures will normally be equally weighted performance targets if an event occurs that the but in any event, any total shareholder Committee determines that an adjustment is return element will represent at least 50 per appropriate.
The performance targets will be at cent of the award.
least as challenging as the ones originally set.
For each performance element, Dividends or equivalents may be paid on vesting.
achievement of the threshold performance Unvested awards are subject to a malus provision level will result in no more than 25 per cent and vested awards are subject to clawback, of the maximum award paying out.
For as described on the following page.
achievement of the maximum performance Details on the impact of the financial year end level, 100 per cent of the maximum pays change on the proposed LTIP can be found on out.
Normally, there is straight-line vesting page 73. between these points.
Ensures alignment with shareholders interests.
Executive Directors are expected to build up share ownership over a period of five years and maintain holdings of at least 2x base salary.
Share ownership STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 79 ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY LTIP Long Term Incentivises performance over the longer term through the Under the new LTIP 2014, which is being put to Although there is a facility for maximum The Committee determines performance Incentive Plan 2014 award of performance related shares.
Share ownership 80 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Notes to the Policy Table Recognising that the Group competes for talent in the international Selection of performance measures financial services sector, on an exceptional basis, the Committee has the Performance targets are set by the Committee to be both stretching and ability to include other elements of pay which it feels is appropriate taking achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the into account the specific commercial circumstances e. g. for an interim economic landscape.
However this would remain subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out above.
The rationale for any such component would The performance measures that are used for our annual bonus and Long be appropriately disclosed.
Term Incentive Plans have been chosen to support the Groups strategy.
In addition, where an individual forfeits arrangements as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer a buy-out, in such form as the For the annual bonus plan, the Committee continues to believe that it is Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors appropriate to use a balance between financial targets, strategic objectives which may include the vehicle, expected value and timing of forfeited and individual performance objectives.
Any such buy-out will be limited to the commercial value of payments and awards forfeited by the individual.
The Committee considers that the measures to be used for the LTIP, i. e. TSR and adjusted EPS, are currently the most appropriate measures of long-term Where an Executive Director is required to relocate from their home performance for the Group.
location to take up their role, the Committee may provide reasonable relocation assistance and other allowances including expatriate Malus and clawback provisions assistance.
Global relocation support normally for up to five years A malus provision applies to awards granted under the new LTIP, and to and any associated costs or benefits including but not limited to unvested awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This would allow the housing, school fees, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights Committee in its absolute discretion to determine, at any time prior to back to the home country may also be provided if business needs the vesting of an award, to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions in require it.
Should the Executives employment be terminated without certain circumstances, including i where there is a material misstatement cause by the Group, repatriation costs will be met by the Group.
or restatement of the results of the Group in its audited accounts, ii the In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of the individual which results in legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including significant reputational damage to the Group or which has a material adverse pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
effect on the financial position of the Group or the business opportunities of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the Group The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director which suffers significant reputational damage or material adverse effect on would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for its financial position or on its business opportunities.
A clawback provision applies to vested awards granted under the new LTIP, Service contracts and payments for departing Directors vested awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and annual bonuses paid Policy in respect of new appointments previously.
This would allow the Committee in its absolute discretion to claw The Groups current policy is that Executive Directors service agreements back from individuals some or all of the vested awards or paid bonus in should have notice periods that are no longer than 12 months.
The Group certain circumstances, including i if there is a material misstatement or may terminate an Executive Directors service agreement by making a restatement of the results of the Group in its audited accounts, ii the payment in lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of the individual which results in flexible benefits allowance, life and medical insurance but excluding significant reputational damage to the Group or a material adverse effect on bonus and share incentives plus any accrued unused holiday entitlement.
the financial position of the Group or the business opportunities of the Group, Consideration will be given to appropriate mitigation terms to reduce or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the Group which suffers payments in lieu of notice made on termination in the event of the Executive significant reputational damage or material adverse effect on its financial Director commencing alternative employment, being appointed as a position or on its business opportunities.
Clawback will normally apply for a Non-Executive Director or providing services pursuant to a consultancy period of three years following vesting of shares and or payment of bonus, agreement in the 12 months following the Executive Directors departure.
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without prejudice Recruitment policy to the Groups ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach of When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive the notice period referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: the Executive Director.
Liquidated damages clauses are not used.
The Group The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment may pay the Executive Directors reasonable legal fees for receiving advice in of individuals of sufficient calibre required by the Group.
Consistent with connection with the termination of their employment.
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
In the event of termination by the Group, each Executive Director may The ongoing remuneration package would normally include the key have an entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights elements on the same terms as those set out in the policy table for under employment protection legislation in the UK and potentially Executive Directors.
Directors and Officers liability insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the Groups Articles of The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded on Association are provided to the Executive Directors for the duration of recruitment excluding any buy-outs referred to below is 625 per cent their employment and for a minimum of seven years following termination.
Incentive awards made in the first year of appointment may be subject to different performance measures and targets appropriate to the newly recruited Executive Director.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 81 The Committee considers that this is consistent with current best practice Detailed share plan provisions and this approach will generally be adopted for new appointments.
Where Share awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which appropriate and when recruiting non-UK based Directors, the Committee may the award has been granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards agree different terms based on local legal requirements or market practice.
only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect certain corporate events, including a Treatment of variable incentives variation in the Companys share capital, a demerger or a special dividend.
Annual bonus Individuals may be considered for an annual bonus In change of control circumstances, all LTIP awards will normally vest on an in respect of the period prior to cessation.
Any award accelerated basis subject to the extent that the performance conditions are would be at the discretion of the Committee, subject to satisfied, and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
the Executive Directors performance and period Deferred Bonus awards will normally vest in full.
The Committee may also of employment.
allow some or all of an award to be exchanged if not yet vested.
Deferred Bonus For good leavers, awards vest at the normal vesting date, Plan 2014 although the Committee may determine that awards Individual terms vest on cessation of employment.
The award will usually vest in full or on a pro-rated basis at the Committees Xavier Rolet entered into a service agreement with the Group on 25 February discretion.
Good leavers are those who cease to be an 2009 and was appointed with effect from 16 March 2009.
Xavier Rolets employee of a member of the Group by reason of death, service agreement can be terminated by either party giving not less than injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, the sale of the 12 months notice.
Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by individuals employing business or the transfer of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which making a payment in lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard pension, flexible benefits allowance, life and private medical insurance to a range of relevant factors including the Executive but excluding bonus and share incentives paid in a lump sum or, at the Directors performance, length of service and Committees absolute discretion, paid in 12 equal monthly instalments from circumstances of their departure.
the date of termination of the employment.
Alternatively, the Group may in Where an individual is not considered to be a good its discretion continue to provide pension, life and private medical insurance leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Where an individual for the 12 months following termination.
If the payment is made in is summarily dismissed, all his awards will lapse.
instalments and Mr Rolet commences alternative employment, is appointed Deferred awards are subject to malus and vested awards as a Non-Executive Director or provides services pursuant to a consultancy are subject to clawback as detailed under page 80. agreement in the relevant period of 12 months following his departure from the Group, the instalments will be reduced by one-twelfth of the annual Long-Term Incentive For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the remuneration earned from the alternative employment, directorship or Plan 2014 normal vesting date and following the end of the performance period, unless the Committee determines consultancy.
On termination other than by reason of summary dismissal that awards should vest following cessation of Mr Rolet will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his employment.
Vesting will be subject to performance employment is terminated subject to company and individual performance.
and unless the Committee determines otherwise or that another basis of reduction is appropriate pro-rated for time in employment.
Good leavers are David Warren entered into a service agreement with the Group on 11 June those who cease to be an employee of a member of the 2012 and was appointed with effect from 2 July 2012.
David Warrens service Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, agreement may be terminated by either party giving at least 12 months redundancy, and the sale of the individuals employing notice.
Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by payment in lieu business or transfer of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors allowance, life and private medical insurance but excluding bonus and share including the Executive Directors performance, length incentives.
Any payment in lieu of notice will be paid in 12 equal monthly of service and circumstances of their departure.
instalments from the date of termination of the employment.
Alternatively, Where an individual is not considered to be a good the Group may in its discretion continue to provide pension and life and private leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
medical insurance for the 12 months following termination.
Should Mr Warren commence alternative employment, be appointed as a Non-Executive Director Unvested awards are subject to malus and vested awards or provide services pursuant to a consultancy agreement in the relevant period are subject to clawback as detailed under page 80. of 12 months following his departure from the Group, the instalments will be reduced by one-twelfth of the annual remuneration earned from the alternative employment, directorship or consultancy.
Payments of the instalments may be required to be deferred until six months after termination by US tax rules applying to Mr Warren.
To the extent that any payment or benefits payable to Mr Warren under his service agreement or under any bonus or share incentive plan would be subject to US excise tax, the payments and benefits may be reduced if this would result in Mr Warren receiving a greater after tax amount than if the benefits were not reduced.
On termination other than by reason of summary dismissal Mr Warren will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his employment is terminated subject to company and individual performance.
82 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Raffaele Jerusalmi entered into a service agreement with Borsa Italiana on Other senior employees participate in long-term incentive plans on 1 October 2001, amended on 3 May 2011, and a service agreement with LSEG similar terms to Executive Directors but with reduced award levels for Holdings Italy on 3 May 2011, which reflects his period of continuous service less senior roles.
On 1 April 2013, Raffaele Jerusalmis employment contract transferred from LSEG Holdings Italy to LSEG Holdings Italia S. p. A.
The malus provision on unvested awards applies automatically to all awards Raffaele Jerusalmis employment contracts with Borsa Italiana and LSEG granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the 2014 LTIP.
However, the Holdings Italia S. p. A. expressly state that no collective bargaining agreements Committee will have the discretion to determine at the grant date whether apply to his employment and accordingly, the terms applying to the the clawback rule on paid bonuses and vested awards will apply to awards termination of his employment are governed by Italian law.
If Raffaele granted to participants other than Executive Directors.
Below the Board, Jerusalmi is dismissed, his notice period will be equal to eight months based LTIP participants excluding Executive Directors may continue to be eligible on continuous service since 1 October 2001 until 1 October 2016 and equal for matching share awards if they acquire investment shares up to 50 per to nine months from 2 October 2016 onwards.
If Raffaele Jerusalmi resigns, cent of their net salary at or around the time the award is granted.
he is required to give three months notice.
On termination of either employment for any reason, Raffaele Jerusalmi is entitled to severance In setting remuneration for Executive Directors, the Committee considers payments under Italian law equal to: i Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR the overall approach to reward employees across the Group taking into which Raffaele Jerusalmi has elected to transfer to his private pension plan account the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development within on a monthly basis since August 2007.
He will therefore not be entitled to a role and or significant market movement.
The TFR contributions currently equate to 7.4 per cent including solidarity tax at the current rate of 0.49 per Salary increases of Executive Directors in percentage terms are in line cent, which does not count towards Raffaele Jerusalmis contributions to his with those of employees in their local jurisdictions.
The Committee does private pension plan of base salary, benefits, annual bonus and LTIP paid to not formally consult directly with employees on Executive Directors pay.
Raffaele Jerusalmi during his employment: ii pro-rated supplementary The Committee receives ongoing regulatory updates and information on monthly payments the annual salary is normally paid in 12 instalments plus external market practices from its independent external advisers which two supplementary monthly payments : and iii a payment in lieu of provide additional context for decisions.
Where no just cause for termination exists, a payment in lieu of notice is payable if the employment is terminated Consideration of shareholders views with immediate effect.
The payment in lieu of notice is in addition to the The Committee is mindful of shareholder views when setting and evaluating payments at i, ii and iii above and is equal to the overall salary due to ongoing remuneration principles, and commits to consulting with Raffaele Jerusalmi during the notice period.
For these purposes, overall salary shareholders prior to any significant changes to the remuneration policy.
includes base salary, average of any variable pay and TFR contributions paid during the last 36 months of the employment, and benefits in kind.
Shareholders have been particularly supportive of the simplification of the Group incentive arrangements without increasing the overall Remuneration policy for other employees and consideration of incentive opportunities.
wider employee remuneration The remuneration policy for senior Executives and other employees is They have welcomed the compulsory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonus determined based on similar principles to Executive Directors.
For roles below into shares until the increased minimum shareholding requirement is met.
the main Board, the exact structure and balance are tailored based on various The Committee has taken shareholders feedback into account and proposed factors including the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development that in addition to the malus provision applied to any bonus amount deferred, within a role and or significant market movement.
The Committee reviews a clawback provision should apply to the entire bonus.
and comments on the salary, bonus and LTIP awards of the senior Executives immediately below Board level and approves the overall design and The Committee is incorporating similar malus and clawback provisions distribution of incentive awards available to all employees, including for awards under the new LTIP.
The approach in respect of base salary and benefits is generally consistent across the organisation.
Executive Directors and other senior managers remuneration includes a greater proportion of performance related pay when compared to other employees.
The Committee considers this is essential to differentiate levels of responsibility and align pay to sustainable long-term performance and shareholders interests.
All employees are eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan which is subject to similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Some Sales employees are eligible to participate in commission plans rather than the annual bonus plan.
Opportunities vary by organisational level.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 83 Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits which is considered appropriate to attract individuals fee with additional fees payable for further Board or entitlements other than their fees and reasonable with the necessary experience and ability to make an and Group responsibilities such as committee expenses.
The Chairman receives the use of a important contribution to the Groups affairs.
chairmanship or membership, subsidiary board chauffeur driven motor car for travel to the Groups or committee membership and Senior offices and business purposes.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Independent Director.
Remuneration Committee, and the Board is Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated responsible for determining all other Non-Executive The Non-Executive Chairman of the Group receives taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional Director fees.
an all-inclusive fee for the role.
advice in the furtherance of their duties incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed Fees are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain Fees are neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Committee retains the flexibility to increase, adjust and make one-off payments to Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Directors Non-Executive Directors based on their remit.
participate in the annual bonus or LTIP plans.
and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Fees are set taking into account the level of responsibility, relevant experience and specialist knowledge of each Non-Executive Director and fees at other companies of a similar size and complexity.
The aggregate fees payable to all Non-Executives combined excluding the Chairman and excluding fees paid for any appointments on subsidiary boards are capped as set out in the Groups Articles of Association as they may be amended by a resolution of shareholders from time to time.
The current limit on the aggregate fees that are payable is 1,500,000 per financial year.
Details of current fees are set out on page 91.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with no notice period except for the Group Chairman who has a notice period of six months unless he is not re-elected by shareholders in which case his appointment will terminate immediately.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments are for an initial period of three years from the date of appointment and are also subject to re-election by shareholders.
Amendments to the Remuneration Policy Report The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee remains mindful that regulation of companies in the financial services sector continues to evolve.
The Committee recognises that remuneration arrangements may need to be amended in order to comply with any new regulations which become applicable to the Group.
The Committee reserves the right to make changes to the Policy described above in order to comply with any such regulatory requirements which apply to the Group including any changes required under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where this results in a major structural change, the Committee would expect to present a revised policy to shareholders for approval at the following AGM.
84 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors The charts below illustrate how much the current Executive Directors could receive under different scenarios in the first year of the policy, assuming a constant share price.
Note that London Stock Exchange Group plc does not have a stated target level for bonus and share awards, so we have assumed 50 per cent of maximum awards to illustrate a mid-range scenario.
Element of remuneration Detail of assumptions This comprises: Fixed remuneration Base salary with effect from 1 April 2014 Benefits paid in 2013 14 as shown in the single figure table in the Annual Remuneration Report Pension Annual Bonus Assumes maximum opportunity of 225 per cent of salary for CEO and 200 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors For mid-range scenario: assumes payment of 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes payment of 100 per cent of the maximum opportunity Long Term Incentive Plan Assumes maximum opportunity of 300 per cent of salary in conditional shares For mid-range scenario: assumes 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes vesting of 100 per cent of the maximum opportunity Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long term remuneration Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi 000 000 000 4,825 5,000 4,000 46% 2,901 2,872 2,775 3,000 38% 1,810 44% 43% 1,783 2,000 34% 35% 33% 976 28% 792 747 30% 29% 1,000 22% 23% 100% 34% 20% 100% 41% 26% 100% 44% 29% 0 Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 85 Legacy arrangements The Committee may make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments where the terms of the payment were agreed granted i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
Executive Directors have awards outstanding under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 which expires in July 2014.
Element Summary The 2004 LTIP plan has two elements: a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked Long Term Incentive to investment by Executive Directors of up to 50 per cent of net salary funded from their bonus payment.
The pre-tax value Plan 2004 of the amount deferred is matched on a 2:1 basis subject to the standard LTIP performance targets as specified below Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares are subject to the Groups absolute TSR 50 per cent and adjusted EPS 50 per cent performance over a single three-year period the performance period.
For absolute TSR, the performance period started on the date of grant and for adjusted EPS on the first day of the financial year in which the award is granted.
For absolute TSR, performance is calculated using a two-month average share price at the start and at the end of the performance period to ensure any anomalous share price movements at these measurement points do not have a disproportionate effect on the assessment of performance over the full three-year period.
The Committee considers the use of both of these measures will best align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Both absolute TSR and adjusted EPS measures are independently verified by Deloitte LLP.
The performance conditions and vesting schedule for awards granted in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 are set out below.
The same targets also apply to awards granted prior to the date that the new LTIP Plan is approved at the July 2014 AGM.
EPS element 50% TSR element 50% Proportion of relevant average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
30% 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Our policy is to grant awards on an annual cycle.
Awards will normally vest three years after the grant date.
Details of how the Committee intends to measure performance for these awards to reflect the change in the financial year are set out on page 90.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect certain one-off events, including a variation in the Companys share capital, a demerger or a special dividend.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares where the Committee considers this appropriate.
For good leavers, awards vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
Good leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a member of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, and the sale of the individuals employing business or transfer of the Company out of the Group or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors including the Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
The number of shares which vest will be reduced on a time pro-rated basis to reflect the period elapsed between grant and the individual leaving.
On retirement, awards continue to be subject to the LTIP until the end of the performance period and will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at the normal vesting date unless the Committee chooses to let awards vest at the date of retirement, in which case vesting will depend on the satisfaction of the performance conditions and will be subject to time pro-rating.
Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, awards will lapse.
Where an individual is summarily dismissed, all their awards will lapse.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions and unless the Committee determines otherwise, on a time pro-rated basis.
86 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The annual report on remuneration sets out how the Group has applied its remuneration policy during FY13 14 and will be put to an advisory vote at the 2014 AGM.
The information from this page to page 97 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
2 Value shown for FY13 14 represents estimated value of share awards granted in 2011 that are expected to vest in June and July 2014.
The estimate assumes 100 per cent vesting and is based on a three-month average share price from 1 January to 31 March 2014, being 19.13.
Value shown for FY12 13 represents the actual vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2010 that vested in September 2013 using the share price on the vesting date, being 16.24 for LTIP Performance shares that vested on 16 September 2013 and 15.66 for Matching shares that vested on 27 September 2013.
Xavier Rolet 3 Benefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance, Save As You Earn SAYE and commuting expenses with associated taxes including a chauffeur-driven motor car where appropriate.
Mr Rolet started contributing to SAYE in February 2014.
SAYE has been valued based on the monthly savings amount 250 and the discount provided 20% from February 2014 i. e. 250 x 2 months x 20 per cent.
David Warren 4 David Warren joined on 2 July 2012, so FY12 13 figures are for a partial year.
5 Benefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance and expatriate allowances with associated taxes.
Raffaele Jerusalmi 6 Benefits represent the cash value of private medical, disability, life and accident insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel benefit.
7 Pension: mandatory INPS contributions calculated on salary, benefits and bonus.
8 Trattamento di Fine Rapporto mandatory arrangements calculated on salary, capped benefits, bonus and shares and paid into Mr Jerusalmis pension plan.
9 FY13 14 rate of 1 1.21 FY12 13 figures re-stated at FY13 14 rate on a constant currency basis.
Additional notes to the Single total figure Where received as a cash supplement, this allowance is not used to calculate of remuneration Audited bonus payments or pension contributions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically Fixed pay to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
Executives are eligible to Base salary participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save as You Earn Option SAYE When reviewing Executive Director salaries, and in line with our policy stated Scheme or international equivalent.
on page 74, the Committee considers multiple reference points including companies in the FTSE 31-100, the broader Financial Services sector as well Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive a flexible benefit allowance of as other international exchanges.
These values have not been increased since last year.
Both of them also receive benefits in kind which principally include private Benefits health care and life assurance arrangements.
A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, Xavier Rolet has started to contribute 250 per month since February 2014 additionally in Italy only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon into the Save As You Earn SAYE scheme which will run until February 2017. vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on elective benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 87 As an expatriate from the US to UK, David Warren is also entitled to receive As set out in the Remuneration Policy Report on page 77, Raffaele Jerusalmi the following net amounts: accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits in Italy.
Actual benefit due Each year he is entitled to tax preparation and filing assistance in the at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation in force from time US and the UK.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the Company at a rate fixed by local law The Group will meet the costs of repatriating Mr Warrens effects back to and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
Both INPS and TFR the US if it terminates his employment other than in circumstances such contributions are included in the single total figure of remuneration table on as serious misconduct which would justify summary termination.
An allowance to cover the cost of renting accommodation in the UK during the first four years of his appointment 60,000 net per annum Pay for Performance up until 1 November 2014 at which point the allowance will then The Committee takes into account multiple reference points when setting reduce to 30,000 per annum for the following two years.
If Mr Warren pay including FTSE 31-100, the financial services sector, international purchases a property within the first two years of appointment, he may exchanges and FTSE 250 roles for key subsidiaries where relevant.
use the balance of the allowance payable for that period to cover associated costs such as stamp duty or legal costs.
Overall the Committee wishes to position total target remuneration fixed pay, variable pay and benefits at or around the median of the reference points.
An annual allowance of 30,000 net per annum to cover flights between The Committee considers it appropriate to reward superior performance with London and New York for Mr Warren and his family.
compensation levels at the upper quartile of the target market s. Raffaele Jerusalmi receives benefits in kind such as health, disability, life and accident insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel benefit.
He also Annual bonus awarded for FY13 14 contributes towards the Italian mandatory national insurance system.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus based on meeting or exceeding bonus targets that are set at the beginning of the year.
There are no contractual malus or clawback provisions in place in relation to benefits.
Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers For FY13 14, the Committee determined that the sole annual financial target insurance and indemnification.
should again be adjusted operating profit.
The Committee considers adjusted operating profit to be of particular significance for the Group and believes it Retirement Benefits should continue to be the main financial measure for annual bonus plan The London Stock Exchange plc final salary pension scheme was closed to new purposes.
At least 50 per cent of the annual bonus pool is subject to achieving entrants in 1999 and was closed to future accruals from 1 April 2012.
The current this financial target.
Other measures include the achievement of strategic and Executive Directors do not participate in this final salary pension scheme.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 225 per cent of salary for Pension provision takes the form of a non-consolidated cash allowance.
the Chief Executive Officer and 200 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors.
Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive an allowance equivalent to 25 per cent of base salary as a taxable cash supplement.
Only base salary is used to calculate pension entitlement and no other pension supplements apply.
In the tax year to 6 April 2014, Xavier Rolet contributed 200,000 into the company Group Pension Plan with Scottish Widows.
On a one-off basis, this included contributions for the three prior tax years up to the maximum, tax-free headroom.
Determination of FY13 14 Annual Bonus The Committee determined the overall Group bonus pool with reference to performance for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The performance measures and targets are set out below: Actual performance Performance relative to target Maximum percentage of bonus Actual percentage of bonus Group AOP Adjusted operating profit up Above Target 50 40 FY13 14 20 per cent at 514.7 million Group bonus pool Strategic Key achievements: Between Target and 50 31 Deliverables Completion of the majority Above Target acquisition and integration of LCH.
Clearnet Group Increase in equities market share TARGET2-Securities and the development of the new international central securities depository in Luxembourg Total 100 71 Note: Due to commercial confidentiality, these sensitive performance targets will not be disclosed now or in the future as this would provide an unfair advantage to our international competitors.
88 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Chief Executive Officer financial management to aid our diversification strategy, all of which are In increasingly complex market conditions and a challenging regulatory reflected in good financial performance and returns to our shareholders.
environment, the Group has had a strong year led expertly by Xavier Rolet.
Financial results were above target with an increase in our revenue, operating Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana & Director of Capital Markets profits and market capitalisation.
This performance has been achieved Raffaele Jerusalmi has led: our Capital Markets and Post Trade divisions: the through: the execution of the Groups strategy including the completion of completion of a majority acquisition in Euro TLX, the development of MTS to the acquisition of a majority stake in the global clearing house, LCH.
Clearnet trade interest rate swaps and MTS Markets International: significant increase Group and key achievements under our strategic pillars: building best in class in market share of Turquoise the pan-European trading platform: plans to capabilities through innovative solutions in post trade, information services launch a new central securities depository in Luxembourg: six year high in new and capital markets: creating a global business with expanded reach through issue activity: the development of Exchange Traded Funds ETF and Exchange FTSE, MTS, MillenniumIT and now LCH.
Clearnet: and developing opportunities Traded Products ETP markets: the development of our ELITE offering to through diversification with plans to launch a new pan-European central enhance our SME offering: significant growth in our fixed income products and securities depository, new derivatives products and continued development Monte Titoli has signed the TARGET2-Securities T2S Framework Agreement of our ELITE programme.
and will participate in the first wave of T2S, scheduled to go-live in June 2015.
Chief Financial Officer Based on the above context and an assessment of individual performance, David Warren delivered: longer term financing structure post completion the Remuneration Committee awarded annual bonuses to each of the of the majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet: the integration with LCH.
Clearnet Executive Directors as follows: extending the cost synergies: close control of our cost base and careful Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets 210% of salary 141% of salary 161% of salary FY13 14 % of salary bonus % of max.
579,000 Long-term incentive plan LTIP Awards granted in September 2010 with performance period ending Under the current 2004 LTIP, awards have two elements: a conditional award in 2013 of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment The awards granted in 2010 were based on absolute TSR performance in by the senior management of all or some of their annual bonus.
the three years from grant and adjusted EPS performance in the three year period to March 2013.
Over the period the Company delivered adjusted EPS Performance Shares and Matching Shares granted in 2010, 2011, 2012 and in performance of 21 per cent per annum and absolute TSR growth of 38 per the last financial year were subject to Companys absolute TSR 50 per cent cent and 37 per cent per annum for the Performance Shares vested on 16 and adjusted EPS 50 per cent performance over a single three-year period September 2013 and Matching Share awards vested on 27 September 2013 the performance period.
For absolute TSR, the performance period started respectively.
Subsequently, 100 per cent of the maximum Performance Share on the date of grant and for adjusted EPS on the first day of the financial year and Matching Share awards vested last year.
in which the award is granted.
Awards granted in June 2011 with a performance period ending in 2014 For absolute TSR, performance is calculated using a two-month average The performance period for the absolute TSR element of the Performance share price at the start and at the end of the performance period to ensure Share and Matching Share awards ends in June and July 2014 respectively.
any anomalous share price movements at these measurement points do Awards vesting in 2014 will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration not have a disproportionate effect on the assessment of performance over covering the next nine-month financial period April to December 2014. the full three-year period.
The awards granted in 2011 were based on absolute TSR performance in The Committee considers the use of both of these measures will best align the the three years from grant, and adjusted EPS performance in the three year interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Both absolute period to March 2014.
Over the period the Company delivered adjusted EPS TSR and adjusted EPS measures are independently verified by Deloitte LLP.
performance of 13.3 per cent per annum for performance and matching shares.
Subsequently the adjusted EPS element for both these awards will The performance conditions and vesting schedule are set out below: deliver 100 per cent vesting.
Absolute TSR growth will be known after 3 June 2014 but is currently also forecast to vest at the full 100 per cent for this element.
The final vesting outcome including the actual share price at EPS element 50% TSR element 50% Proportion of relevant average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth element which vests vesting following the end of the performance period will be set out in next Less than 6% p. a.
0% years Annual Remuneration Report, but based on latest forecasts is likely 6% p. a.
30% to be at the full 100 per cent vesting level.
12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 89 LTIP Awards Granted in FY13 14 Audited Awards made in FY13 14 For the year ended 31 March 2014, awards of Performance Shares were made with a value of 200 per cent of salary for Xavier Rolet, 176 per cent of salary for David Warren, and 193 per cent of salary for Raffaele Jerusalmi at historical rate of 1 1.18.
Xavier Rolet also received an award of Matching Shares equivalent to 100 per cent of salary following his investment in London Stock Exchange Group shares.
Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana 2 3 3 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets % of salary 200% of salary 100% of 176% of salary 193% of salary FY13 14 salary in matching shares LTIP Nil-cost face value 1,410,000 705,000 750,000 710,000 approx.
838,000 performance options granted on 1 share price 13.88 13.88 13.88 12 June 2013 Number of LTIP 101,585 50,792 54,034 51,152 shares granted Notes: 1 The share price of 13.88 was determined using the closing price MMQ on 10 June 2013 and approved by the Share Scheme Committee a subsidiary of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Between 31 May 2013 and 11 June 2013 Mr Rolet acquired a further 13,312 invested shares at an average price of 14.03, equivalent to 50 per cent of his net salary or 186,825 in total.
In return he was granted a further 100 per cent of salary 705.000 in matching LTIP shares being 50,792 matching shares at 13.88 share price.
3 Mr Warren and Mr Jerusalmi did not participate in the voluntary matching share scheme in FY13 14.
The same performance conditions described above apply to all awards Other share plans SAYE granted between 2010 and 2013, and for those to be awarded in 2014 All UK employees, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in if prior to July 2014 AGM, namely: the HM Revenue & Customs approved Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE.
Under the rules of the SAYE, participants can save up to 250 each month, increasing to 500 from April 2014, for a period of three years.
At the end of Proportion of EPS element 50% TSR element 50% relevant element the saving period, savings plus interest may be used to acquire shares by average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth which vests exercising the related option.
30% The options may be granted at an exercise price which represents a discount 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% of up to 20 per cent to market value at the date of invitation.
No performance Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points conditions are attached to SAYE options.
There is also an International Sharesave Plan ISP, which is designed to provide share options to Group Due to the financial year-end change, EPS will be measured over 33 months employees who are not based in the UK on similar terms to the options for 2012, 2013 and 2014 grants.
From 2015 onwards, grants will return to that are available to UK employees through the SAYE.
To date, employees in being measured over 36 months on a calendar year basis.
The financial France, Hong Kong, Italy, Sri Lanka and the US have participated in the ISP.
year-end change does not affect the TSR measurement period which is still three calendar years from grant.
During the financial year April 2013 to March 2014, a grant was made in The Committee will determine final outcomes to ensure there is no material January 2014 under the UK and international schemes.
Due to the financial advantage or disadvantage to participants due to the year-end change.
year-end change, an additional interim grant will be made in July 2014.
From 2015 onwards, annual SAYE grants will normally take place in May.
Executive Directors Share Options under the ShareSave SAYE Plan SAYE Number of shares Final At start Awarded Vested At end Price at Date of vesting Expiry of year during the year during year of year award date award date date Xavier Rolet 712 712 17.99 10 01 2014 01 03 2017 30 08 2017 90 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Implementation of the remuneration policy during FY2014 Under the new Deferred Bonus Plan proposals: 1 April to 31 December 2014 The current, voluntary deferral of up to 50 per cent of net salary is Base salary operation: replaced with the introduction of the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent When reviewing Executive Director salaries, and in line with our policy, ofbonus for a period of two years.
the Committee considers multiple reference points including companies Until the increased minimum shareholding requirement is reached, in the FTSE 31-100, the broader Financial Services sector as well as other bonus deferral will be 100 per cent into shares.
Once the level of minimum international exchanges.
shareholding has been reached, individuals will be able to elect to defer 100 per cent into shares, 50 per cent into shares 50 per cent into cash or Base salaries for 2014 15, effective from 1 April 2014, are set out in the table below: 100 per cent into cash.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions.
Bonuses already paid Annual salary 2013 14 2014 15 out under the Deferred Bonus Plan and vested awards are subject to Xavier Rolet 705,000 733,000 4% clawback with judgement applied by the Committee.
David Warren 425,000 425,000 0% Raffaele Jerusalmi 435,000 480,000 10% For good leavers, awards will usually vest at the normal vesting date and in full, unless the Committee determines to scale back the award based Chief Executive Officer on any factors deemed relevant.
Where an individual is not considered The Chief Executives salary has been reviewed in the context of Group to be a good leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
performance and salary increases elsewhere in the Group as well as Long Term Incentive Plan: positioning against peers.
He has been awarded a four per cent salary increase.
As described in the Remuneration Policy Report set out above, the Company is seeking approval for a new Long-Term Incentive Plan at the 2014 AGM.
Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Thenew plan was designed after consulting with major shareholders and Director of Capital Markets incorporates many aspects of evolving best practice.
The key changes are Since his appointment to the Board in June 2010, the Committee has asfollows: been aware that Raffaele Jerusalmis salary has been behind his peers, The current, voluntary matching equal to 100 per cent of salary both internally and externally.
At that time the Committee chose not to opportunity has been removed and replaced with a single long term substantially increase his salary preferring to recognise Mr Jerusalmis incentive plan.
In future years, the Company will only make annual contribution and importance to the Group in his capacity as a key member grants of Performance Shares.
of the Board over an extended period of time.
Subsequently, the Committee has determined that Mr Jerusalmis salary will be increased to 480,000, An increased maximum opportunity from 300 per cent to 400 per cent an increase of 10 per cent.
The Groups strategy continues to be focused on ofsalary to recognise loss of opportunity where voluntary matching has increasing its global footprint and diversifying its service offering.
Mr Jerusalmi beenreplaced by mandatory deferral but with no increase in overall has made an exceptional contribution to this sustained success.
As the Group incentive opportunities.
executes its growth strategy, the breadth and complexity of Mr Jerusalmis role A reduction of threshold level of vesting from 30 per cent to 25 per cent continues to increase.
He has responsibility for Capital Markets, Post Trade ofthe maximum, in line with market practice.
including TARGET2-Securities and the development of the new International Central Securities Depository in Luxembourg.
Introduction of malus and clawback provisions, allowing the Committee to reduce subsisting awards in certain circumstances e. g. material Annual bonus operation: misstatement or gross misconduct.
For FY2014, targets will be adjusted to reflect this shorter nine-month Alignment of good leaver policy with best practice.
LTIP awards will performance period.
Performance measures and weighting now subsist until the end of the performance period in line with other remain unaffected.
award-holders and vest at that point with time pro-rating based on The maximum bonus opportunities will be pro-rated to reflect the shortened the number of actual months service within the relevant 36-month period with performance measured over the truncated financial year.
Any bonus payment would be determined in March 2015.
The following Under the 2014 LTIP, awards of shares or equivalent are granted annually financial year will align with the calendar year of January to December subject to performance conditions.
The awards will continue to be based on 2015 with bonuses determined in March 2016. absolute Total Shareholder Return TSR and adjusted Earnings per Share EPS performance measures as described overleaf.
Awards to be made during FY2014 Our policy is to grant awards on an annual cycle.
All awards granted during 2014 will continue to be based on absolute TSR and adjusted EPS growth and subject to a three-year vesting period.
Based on the context as previously stated and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee has approved grants to each of the Executive Directors under the 2004 LTIP as follows figures below exclude any matching awards that may be made as a result of a voluntary investment in shares by the Executive Director : Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets % of salary 200% of salary 176% of annual salary 181% of salary FY2014 LTIP amount 1,466,000 750,000 719,000 approx 870,000 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 91 The Remuneration Committee intends to grant LTIP awards before the Non-Executive Directors fees for FY2014 AGM under the 2004 Plan as described on page 85.
If for whatever reason From 1 April 2014, it was determined that there would be no proposed including any regulatory or legal restriction the Committee is unable to changes to the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fee levels in respect make the grant before the AGM, awards will be granted under the new LTIP of LSEG Board membership which would be as follows: assuming it is approved by shareholders within the limits described in the Policy on page 79.
With With effect from effect from For awards granted after the 2014 AGM, the threshold vesting level has been Fees 1 April 2013 1 April 2014 reduced to 25 per cent of the maximum, as described in our Remuneration Group Chairman 370,000 370,000 Policy Report on page 79.
Subsequently the performance conditions for Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director 120,000 120,000 awards granted post-AGM will be as follows: Non-Executive Director base fee 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 Proportion of EPS element 50% TSR element 50% relevant element Risk Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth which vests Less than 6% p. a.
25% Audit Committee, Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee membership 10,000 10,000 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board and is neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is intended to recognise the significant responsibilities of Directors and to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make an important contribution to the Companys affairs.
Comparisons are made with fees paid at FTSE 31-100 companies.
Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance of their duties incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman receives the use of a chauffeur-driven motor car for travel to the Groups offices and business purposes.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys annual bonus or LTIP plans and are not entitled to any payments on termination.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from subsidiary companies, details are set out below.
The original date of appointment as Directors of the Company is as follows: LSEG Committee Other subsidiaries Date of letter of membership membership 5 Name Date Appointed appointment Time to expiry Notice period Date of resignation chairmanship chairmanship Baroness Janet Cohen 01 02 2001 N A Expired None 17 07 2013 Remuneration LSE plc LCH.
1,3 Robert Webb QC 01 02 2001 01 02 2013 31 January 2016 None Chair Clearnet Chris Gibson-Smith 01 05 2003 18 07 2012 2015 AGM 6 months Group Chairman 30 September 2 Andrea Munari 01 10 2007 01 10 2013 2016 None Risk 30 September Paolo Scaroni 01 10 2007 01 10 2013 2016 None Remuneration Sergio Ermotti 01 10 2007 N A Expired 17 07 2013 Gay Huey Evans 04 06 2010 N A Expired 17 07 2013 2,3 Paul Heiden 04 06 2010 04 06 2013 3 June 2016 None Audit Chair, Risk LSE plc Borsa Italiana, LSEGH Italia, CC&G and Euro Massimo Tononi 27 09 2010 27 09 2013 September 2016 None Audit TLX 92 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued LSEG Committee Other subsidiaries Date of letter of membership membership 5 Name Date Appointed appointment Time to expiry Notice period Date of resignation chairmanship chairmanship LCH.
Clearnet Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2013.
2 Paul Heiden, Andrea Munari, Stephen OConnor and Stuart Lewis were appointed to the Risk Committee on 17 July 2013.
3 Paul Heiden and Robert Webb are Directors of London Stock Exchange plc throughout FY13 14.
4 Stephen OConnor and Joanna Shields were appointed to the Board of London Stock Exchange plc on 28 January 2014.
5 All appointments to the LSEG Board are expected to continue for a period of three years and are subject to earlier termination in accordance with the provisions of the Articles.
These benefits include use of chauffeur-driven car for Mr Gibson-Smith and international flights for Mr OConnor.
2 Baroness Janet Cohen received a fee of 26,000 or 21,488 at 1 1.21 for her role as Vice Chairman of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
3 Mr Tononi received a combined fee of 214,332 177,133 for his roles as Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
Chairman of CC&G, Chairman of EuroTLX and Chairman and Director of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia.
Mr Tononi renounced his fees for FY13 14 period as Director of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. and London Stock Exchange Holdings Italia on 1 January 2014 and 20 March 2014 respectively.
4 Mr Aigrain received an annualised fee of 530,000 as Chairman of LCH.
In addition he received a one-off, additional fee of 100,000 for performing the role of interim Executive Chairman in the absence of an LCH.
In addition to travelling expenses, he was also in receipt of health cover which ceased on 1 April 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 93 Alignment between pay and performance Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The following graph shows, for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 and for each of the previous five years, the TSR on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 100 is calculated.
The TSR graph represents the value, at 31 March 2014, of 100 invested in London Stock Exchange Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
As a member of the FTSE100, we have chosen the FTSE100 Index as it is currently the most relevant index for benchmarking our performance over the five year period.
Five-year TSR chart v FTSE 100 FTSE 100 LSEG 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Historic levels of CEO pay CEO single total figure Annual bonus payout against Long-term incentive vesting rates Year ended 31 March: CEO of remuneration 000 maximum opportunity % against maximum opportunity % Xavier Rolet 6,297 93% 100% 2014 Xavier Rolet 6,015 89% 100% 2013 Xavier Rolet 5,245 100% 65% 2012 Xavier Rolet 2,134 89% 2011 1 Xavier Rolet 1,873 71% 2010 2 Clara Furse 400 49% 0% Notes: Xavier Rolet 1 In the role of CEO from 20 May 2009, appointed to the Board 16 March 2009.
Clara Furse 2 In the role of CEO until 20 May 2009.
She resigned from the Board on 15 July 2009.
94 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Percentage change in remuneration of CEO The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 31 March 2013 and the year ended 31 March 2014 for the CEO compared to the average of the representative sample of UK employees all LSEG UK employees excluding LCH.
Clearnet : Salary Benefits Annual Bonus CEO 4% 5% 10% 1 2 Average pay of Group UK employees 3% 10% 14% Notes: 1 This group has been selected to reflect the jurisdiction in which the CEO is based.
Clearnet employees are not included for this year as they are currently on a different pay cycle.
2 10 per cent increase in benefits cost in UK is largely due to implementation of pension auto-enrolment with effect from 1 January 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative FY13 14 v FY12 13 expenditure of the Group on Dividends versus Total Employee Costs.
These figures are taken directly from the Notes to the Financial Statements at the back of this report.
Year on year increases % FY13 14 FY12 13 Annual Increase Dividends Paid In 80.8m 77.4m 4% Financial Year 1 Total Employee Costs 303.9m 167.3m 82% Note: 1 Total employee costs include LCH.
Clearnet with effect from 1 May 2013 onwards.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 95 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests as at 31 March 2014 Audited All Executive Directors who served in the financial year, with the exception of David Warren, who was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2012, currently own shares outright and at a level exceeding their required shareholding as described in the section on Share Ownership Guidelines on page 79 based on a share price of 19.70 being the closing share price on 31 March 2014.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 1 Shares held Options held Minimum Shareholding Requirement Unvested and Unvested and subject to subject to Vested Current New Shareholding Owned performance continued but not Requirement Requirement as at 31 March Requirement Outright conditions employment exercised % salary % salary 2014 % salary met Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 329,598 560,559 712 100 200 921 Yes David Warren 138,695 100 200 No Raffaele Jerusalmi 41,721 164,278 100 200 228 Yes Non-Executive Directors Chris Gibson-Smith 63,757 N A Andrea Munari N A Paolo Scaroni N A Robert Webb 1,200 N A Paul Heiden 3,000 N A Massimo Tononi N A Jacques Aigrain N A Stuart Lewis N A Stephen OConnor N A Sherry Coutu N A Joanna Shields N A Former Directors Baroness Janet Cohen 6,616 N A Sergio Ermotti N A Gay Huey Evans N A Note: 1 No options were exercised by the Directors during the year to 31 March 2014.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests Audited 2 Ordinary Shares Held LTIP Options SAYE options Total Interests 3 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 329,598 191,840 560,559 643,112 712 890,869 834,952 David Warren 138,695 84,661 138,695 84,661 1 Raffaele Jerusalmi 41,721 41,721 164,278 184,554 205,999 226,275 Non-Executive Directors Chris Gibson-Smith 63,757 63,757 63,757 63,757 Andrea Munari Paolo Scaroni Robert Webb 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 Paul Heiden 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 Massimo Tononi Jacques Aigrain Stuart Lewis Stephen OConnor Sherry Coutu Joanna Shields Former Directors Baroness Janet Cohen 6,616 6,616 6,616 6,616 Sergio Ermotti Gay Huey Evans Notes: 1 Raffaele Jerusalmis shareholding was overstated by 5,208 shares in 2013.
He still met and continues to meet his minimum shareholding requirement.
2 LTIP performance shares are structured as nil-cost options.
3 There have been no further changes in these interests between 31 March 2014 and 15 May 2014.
96 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Plan Table The Long Term Incentive Plan has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the Executive in the Companys shares.
The awards are dependent on TSR performance for 50 per cent of the award, with the other 50 per cent dependent on an adjusted basic EPS growth target.
Details of performance conditions are set out on page 79.
They will be fully disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 97 Remuneration Committee Governance Advisors The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of recommendations only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees remit includes from key stakeholders, including institutional investor bodies, and the the remuneration of the Chairman of the Group, Executive Directors and the Committee consults with major shareholders on any key decisions taken.
Executive Committee please see pages 20 and 21 for details of the Groups Executive Committee, including the awards made under the performanceDeloitte LLP is the principal advisor appointed by the Committee to provide related incentive schemes.
independent advice on Executive remuneration policy and practice and reviews our policy framework and implementation thereof against current All members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
and emerging corporate governance best practice.
During the year, Deloitte Detailsofthe Committees remit and activities are set out in this Directors received 152,600 excluding VAT based on actual time spent for these Remuneration Report.
The Committee has written terms of reference which services.
Separately, other parts of Deloitte LLP also advised the Company are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate in FY13 14 in relation to tax, internal audit, risk management, consulting and governance section of the Companys website at www.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Committee met on five occasions.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to Remuneration Committee composition and meeting attendance Executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied in the year ended 31 March 2014 that the advice provided by Deloitte LLP is independent and objective.
Outside appointments Total Executive Directors are allowed to accept appointments as Non-Executive 5 5 Robert Webb Chairman Directors of other companies with the prior approval of the Chairman.
5 5 Chris Gibson-Smith Approval will only be given where the appointment does not represent a conflict of interest with the Companys activities and the wider exposure 1 5 Gay Huey Evans resigned 17 July 2013 gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Executive 5 5 Paolo Scaroni Directors may retain fees to encourage them to seek out the development opportunities and valuable experience afforded by these appointments 1 5 Sergio Ermotti resigned 17 July 2013 and in recognition of the personal responsibility Executives assume in such roles and we would disclose these fees.
To assist the Committee, the results of market surveys are made available and, where appropriate, the Committee invites the views of the Chief At present, none of the Executive Directors are in receipt of additional fees.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Human Resources.
None of these individuals or the Chairman participated in any discussion Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors relating to their own remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM: Robert Webb Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Number % Number % 210,062,132 96.86 6,806,546 3.14 216,868,678 791,531
