80 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Performance and pay outcomes in the year It has been a successful 9 months for the Group.
The acquisition of Frank Russell Company significantly enhances our international presence and global footprint.
In particular, the combination of FTSE with Russell Indexes creates a truly global indices provider and establishes an excellent platform for attractive financial returns through cost and revenue synergies as well as growth from the expected increase in passive investment strategies.
We have also made further progress on the integration of LCH.
Clearnet into the Group while continuing to grow organically through our existing businesses around the world.
The Group delivered a strong financial performance, with adjusted operating profit of 417.5 million for the period or 558 million for CY 2014, which is up Robert Webb 16 per cent versus CY2013.
The execution of our strategy of delivering growth Chairman of the Remuneration Committee while expanding our global presence has been reflected in the Groups share price performance over the period with a 22 per cent Total Shareholder Return TSR, significantly in excess of the FTSE 100 index.
A Rights Issue to partially Last year we consulted extensively with shareholders on our fund the purchase of Frank Russell Company was successfully completed in Remuneration Policy, the Annual Report on Remuneration and September 2014, raising a total of US$1,600 million.
our new long-term incentive plan, and are grateful for the high level of support received for these at our July 2014 AGM.
The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made in 2011 vested in full during 2014, due to ongoing, strong Earnings Per Share EPS and TSR growth On behalf of the Board, I now present the Directors Remuneration in the period.
EPS increased by c. 45 per cent over the three years to the end Report for the 9-month financial period ended 31 December 2014. of March 2014 and TSR more than doubled over the period to June 2014.
As We intend to continue to operate under our shareholder-approved shown in our Single total figure of remuneration table, the TSR element of policy and therefore only the Annual Report on Remuneration is the LTIP awards made in 2012 is currently expected to vest in full, while the subject to a shareholder vote at our upcoming AGM.
However, for EPS element is expected to be below threshold.
ease of reference we have republished our Remuneration Policy Report in full on the following pages.
The Committee continues to place great importance on ensuring that there is a clear link between pay and performance, including adherence to the Groups Risk framework, and that our remuneration outcomes are reflective of this wider context.
As a result of the Groups performance and strong individual performance, the Committee determined that the Executive Directors will be awarded bonuses of between 83 per cent and 89 per cent of their maximum opportunity which has been prorated for the 9 month financial period ended 31 December 2014.
LTIP awards to be granted in 2015 will be awarded under the 2014 LTIP described in the Policy section from page 86.
During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary levels of our Executive Directors.
In recognition of the significant change in the scale, scope and responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officers role, the Committee has decided to increase David Warrens salary from 425,000 to 465,000.
This is the first salary increase awarded to Mr Warren since he joined the Group in July 2012.
Over this period, the Group has evolved from a predominantly European-focused exchange operator to a diversified international market infrastructure and capital markets business.
This is in part due to the successful acquisition of LCH.
Clearnet and Frank Russell Company, in which Mr Warren played a critical role.
Taking the above factors into account, the Committee felt that the adjustment to salary was appropriate and reflects the significant change in Mr Warrens role.
Increases for the other Directors are in line with the average employee increases, being 2 per cent for Mr Rolet, the Chief Executive Officer and 4 per cent for Mr Jerusalmi, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital Markets.
Notes: CY2013: 1 January to 31 December 2013 unaudited CY2014: 1 January to 31 December 2014 unaudited FY2014: 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 audited 9 month period to December 2014: 1 April to 31 December 2014 audited CY2015: 1 January to 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 81 Summary of key Executive remuneration decisions Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer & Director of Capital Markets Name Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi Previous salary 733,000 425,000 480,000 with effect from 1 April 2014 Annual salary 750,000 2% 465,000 9% 500,000 4% with effect from 1 April 2015 % of salary 150% of annual salary 129% of salary 125% of salary Bonus for 9 9 9 200% of 12 of salary 173% of 12 of salary 167% of 12 of salary 9-month period to 1 % of maximum 89% 86% 83% December 2014 total amount 1,100,000 550,000 600,000 Of which 50% 550,000 275,000 300,000 is deferred Deferral vehicle 100% into LSEG shares 100% into LSEG shares 100% into cash Max.
bonus opportunity 225% 200% 200% LTIP award subject 300% of salary 2,250,000 274% of salary 1,275,000 Sterling equivalent of 275% to performance of salary 1,375,000 at prevailing fx rate at time of grant Note: 1.
Refers to maximum for nine months.
Concluding remarks The Committee continues to ensure the Groups approach to remuneration takes into account best practice developments and market trends in the fi financial services sector and wider market while continuing to support the commercial needs of the Group, the interests of shareholders and of all other stakeholders.
We look forward to your support for these proposals at the forthcoming AGM.
Robert Webb Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 March 2015 82 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large The Committee carefully considered the impact of the change in financial and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports year on the Groups remuneration framework and concluded that: Amendment Regulations 2013, and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
Bonus This years disclosure has been split into two sections: For the financial period ended 31 December 2014, the maximum bonus opportunities were prorated to reflect the shortened period with Remuneration Policy Report pages 84-94 performance measured over the truncated 9-month financial period: This section contains the remuneration policy that we intend to apply for 2015.
The Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder 50 per cent of any award to Executive Directors will be deferred in cash vote at the 2014 AGM and was passed with 95 per cent support.
There have and or shares for a period of two years.
been no changes to the policy during the financial period and the Policy Report as approved by shareholders has been reproduced on pages 84-94 LTIP for ease of reference.
The 36-month vesting period for outstanding long-term share awards will remain unaffected by the change, with no acceleration of vesting.
Annual Report on Remuneration pages 95-109 In addition, after careful review of their continued appropriateness by This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have been operated the Remuneration Committee, no changes to the existing performance during the past financial period 9 months from April to December 2014, metrics are proposed including the annualised growth targets.
and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year CY2015.
This report will be put to an advisory vote at The TSR conditions for outstanding awards continue to be measured over the 2015 AGM.
three calendar years from the date of grant.
In line with the performance schedule, EPS is measured over three financial years while seeking to There are a number of contextual points to acknowledge when considering ensure performance is assessed on a like-for-like basis.
Long-term both these reports and our approach to executive remuneration, including: Performance and Matching awards granted in 2012 will vest in June change in financial year: 2015 using CY2014 as the closing year for EPS performance measure.
Similarly for awards to be granted in 2015, the Committee will use impact of the Rights Issue: CY2014 as the baseline year for the EPS measure.
timing of LTIP awards made in CY2014: and Notwithstanding the above, the Committee will assess the performance the introduction of compulsory deferral for the 9-month period period and vesting for the relevant LTIP grants to ensure no participant is to December 2014 bonus.
materially advantaged or disadvantaged from the change in year end.
These are discussed below, prior to the presentation of the two reports.
Change in financial year The Group has now migrated its financial year to align with the calendar year from 1 January 2015.
This change resulted in a truncated financial year of 9 months in 2014 i. e. from 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014.
As previously disclosed, the Committee has taken this change into account when making remuneration decisions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 83 Impact of the Rights Issue The following sets out the impact of the Rights Issue on share awards from a remuneration perspective: Number of shares under award For all outstanding share awards under Group plans and for awards with an option exercise price e. g. CSOP and SAYE, the number of shares under award and the option price were adjusted using the accepted standard methodology theoretical ex-rights price or TERP for adjusting awards in the event of a Rights Issue.
This ensures that participants are not disadvantaged by the effect of the Rights Issue.
LTIP performance measures 50 per cent TSR and 50 per cent EPS No explicit adjustment is necessary for the TSR performance condition as it is already taken into account under the current TSR calculation methodology.
The Committee does not intend to make any adjustments to the EPS performance condition but will assess performance at the time of vesting to ensure that participants are neither materially advantaged nor disadvantaged.
Timing of LTIP awards made in CY2014 CY2014 LTIP awards were made to the Executive Directors in August 2014 under the new LTIP, approved at the July 2014 AGM.
Ordinarily, these awards would have been made in June 2014 under the previous LTIP prior to the AGM.
However, the Group was unable to make awards at that time given restrictions due to the potential Frank Russell Company acquisition.
Under the previous arrangements, there was the opportunity to receive a Matching Award provided individuals voluntarily invested up to 50 per cent of their net salary into shares, which could be matched on a 2:1 basis subject to performance.
Under the new 2014 LTIP, there is no longer the opportunity for a Matching award for Executive Directors.
This has been simplified and the Committee can award up to 300 per cent of salary at grant under the new LTIP.
Compulsory deferral of bonus for the 9-month period to December 2014 Following approval of our Policy Report by shareholders at the July 2014 AGM, Executive Directors must now compulsorily defer 50 per cent of their bonus for a period of two years.
This provision comes into effect for the 9-month period to December 2014 bonus and operates as follows: Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, bonus deferral is 100 per cent into shares: and Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are able to elect to defer with three different approaches: 100 per cent of the deferral amount into shares: 50 per cent into shares and 50 per cent into cash: or 100 per cent into cash.
84 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report This Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder vote ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE TO STRATEGY MEASURES at the 2014 AGM and was approved with 95 per cent of the votes.
Accordingly, it had binding effect on the Company from that date.
There have been no Provides a core element of remuneration which Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking into There is no defined maximum salary.
n a Salary changes to the Remuneration Policy since its approval by shareholders.
reflects the responsibilities of the role.
account a range of factors, including: size and scope of the role: Increases are determined based on the factors described in the Operation Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals column.
Current policy table for Executive Directors skills and experience of the individual: of the calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
A summary of the key elements of remuneration for Executive Directors The Committees normal approach is to initially consider increases within market competitiveness relative positioning: is shown in the table opposite.
the range awarded to other employees.
More significant increases may performance of the Group and of the individual: be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a significant change in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development within This Remuneration Policy Report determined by the Groups Remuneration wider market and economic conditions: and a role and or significant market movement.
Committee the Committee, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 level of increases being made across the Group.
AGM and was effective from the date of its approval at that meeting.
The annual base salaries in the 9-month period to December 2014 Any changes are normally effective from 1 April each year.
and CY2015 for each Executive Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Group must attract and retain a high calibre senior management team to ensure it is in a position to deliver its business plans and maximise returns for shareholders.
The Group is committed to paying for performance, rewarding the senior management team only when its goals are achieved.
Each year the remuneration framework and the packages of the Executive Provide local market competitive benefits and A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have There is no defined maximum.
n a Benefits Directors and members of the Executive Committee are reviewed by the support the well-being of employees.
certain core benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, additionally in Italy only, disability, Benefits plans are set at what are in the Committees opinion Committee to ensure that they continue to achieve this objective.
In doing accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers together reasonable levels in order to be market competitive for their local so, the Committee takes into account multiple reference points when setting with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on jurisdiction and are dependent on individual circumstances.
pay including companies in the FTSE 31-100, the broader Financial Services elective benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
sector as well as other international exchanges.
Participation in the Save As You Earn Option Scheme or international A chauffeur-driven motor car may also be provided for equivalent is capped at the same level as all other participants, which Executive Directors where appropriate.
is determined by the Company within the parameters of applicable The Committee has taken the following areas into account in establishing legislation.
the Group remuneration policy: Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee reserves a focus on shareholder value: the right to provide our Executives with the appropriate level of security arrangements to allow them to perform their duties the continued expansion of the Group beyond the UK: in the safest possible conditions.
the need to attract and retain senior management from the international Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain financial sector which requires remuneration packages with a sufficient affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits as variable pay component: appropriate for example, relocation and other allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for the Groups intent to be mindful of best practice as expressed by a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights institutional shareholders and their representative bodies: and back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by the Company if employment the relatively higher profile of the Group compared with many other is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
quoted companies with similar market capitalisation.
Where necessary any benefits may be grossed up for taxes.
Executives are eligible to participate in the Groups HMRCapproved Save As You Earn Option Scheme or international equivalent on the same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
Provision of annual pension allowance, invested in the The maximum annual pension contribution cash allowance is 25 per n a Retirement Companys defined contribution plan or taken as a cash cent of salary except where determined by local market practice.
Support recruitment and retention of high-calibre allowance.
In Italy, Mr Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits In certain jurisdictions, more bespoke pension arrangements which are calculated on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
Actual benefit may be provided.
In such circumstances, the Committee will due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation in force give appropriate consideration to local employment legislation, from time to time.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, market practices and the cost of the arrangement.
he receives contributions which are funded by the Group at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
TFR is calculated on salary, capped benefits, annual bonus and LTIP.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 85 ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE TO STRATEGY MEASURES Provides a core element of remuneration which Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking into There is no defined maximum salary.
n a Salary reflects the responsibilities of the role.
skills and experience of the individual: of the calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
The Committees normal approach is to initially consider increases within market competitiveness relative positioning: the range awarded to other employees.
More significant increases may performance of the Group and of the individual: be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a significant change in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development within wider market and economic conditions: and a role and or significant market movement.
level of increases being made across the Group.
Provide local market competitive benefits and A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have There is no defined maximum.
n a Benefits support the well-being of employees.
certain core benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, additionally in Italy only, disability, Benefits plans are set at what are in the Committees opinion accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers together reasonable levels in order to be market competitive for their local with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on jurisdiction and are dependent on individual circumstances.
elective benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
is determined by the Company within the parameters of applicable legislation.
Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee reserves the right to provide our Executives with the appropriate level of security arrangements to allow them to perform their duties in the safest possible conditions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits as appropriate for example, relocation and other allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
86 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES ELEMENT TO STRATEGY Rewards annual performance against challenging financial, The Group operates a Group-wide bonus pool which is funded based Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 225 per cent of salary for CEO and Based on a combination of financial e. g. adjusted operating profit, Annual bonus strategic and individual targets linked to Group strategy.
on the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group.
200 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors for maximum performance.
strategic and individual performance targets.
Strategic objectives Allocations to individual Executive Directors are made from this include key targets under the strategic pillars of building best in class Deferral reinforces retention and enhances alignment pool based on the Committees assessment of their individual capabilities, creating a global business and developing opportunities.
with shareholders by encouraging longer-term focus performance, taking into account the Groups financial and strategic These strategic objectives also impact financial results in the and sustainable performance.
performance and the achievement of any individual objectives medium term.
The Committee will set the detail and mix of performance measures, Performance targets are reviewed and set by the Committee at the targets and weighting based on the strategic objectives at the start beginning of each performance year.
At least 50 per cent of the targets relating to the annual bonus pool in any year will be subject to financial measures.
Awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based upon the actual performance against these targets.
No bonuses are paid for below threshold performance.
The Committee may award any amount between zero and 100 per The Committee applies judgement where necessary to ensure cent of the maximum opportunity.
approved pay-out levels are reflective of actual, overall performance.
50 per cent of the annual bonus will be subject to mandatory The performance measures are applied in the performance year only.
deferral, normally for a period of two years.
Due to the financial year end change, FY2014 will be based on a Until the minimum shareholding requirement see below nine-month performance period from 1 April 2014 to 31 December is reached, bonus deferral will be 100 per cent into shares.
Once 2014, followed by a calendar year from 1 January to 31 December the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals from 2015 onwards.
Further details about the impact of the financial will be able to defer 100 per cent into shares, 50 per cent into year end change can be found on page 82. shares 50 per cent into cash or 100 per cent into cash.
Dividends or equivalents may be paid in respect of deferred shares on vesting.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions as described below.
Paid bonuses and vested awards are subject to clawback as described below.
Incentivises performance over the longer term through the Under the LTIP 2014, which was approved by shareholders at the Although there is a facility for maximum awards of up to 400 per cent of The Committee determines performance targets each year to LTIP Long Term award of performance related shares.
2014 AGM, awards of shares or equivalent are granted annually salary under the plan rules in exceptional cases, it is expected that awards ensure that the targets are stretching and support value creation subject to performance conditions.
under this plan will normally be up to 300 per cent of salary.
for shareholders while remaining motivational for management.
Incentive Plan Aligns reward with long-term, sustainable Group performance 2014 Awards normally vest subject to performance targets assessed and a focus on shareholder value.
Vesting of awards is subject to achievement of total shareholder over a performance period, normally of at least three financial return and financial performance targets.
For initial grants under years.
The Committee has discretion to set different performance this new LTIP, awards are subject to absolute TSR and adjusted periods if it considers them to be appropriate.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Measures will normally be equally weighted but in any event, any performance measures have been met.
The Committee may make total shareholder return element will represent at least 50 per cent adjustments to performance targets if an event occurs that the of the award.
Committee determines that an adjustment is appropriate.
The performance targets will be at least as challenging as the ones For each performance element, achievement of the threshold originally set.
performance level will result in no more than 25 per cent of the Dividends or equivalents may be paid on vesting.
Unvested maximum award paying out.
For achievement of the maximum awards are subject to a malus provision and vested awards are performance level, 100 per cent of the maximum pays out.
subject to clawback, as described on the following page.
Normally, there is straight-line vesting between these points.
Details on the impact of the financial year end change on the proposed LTIP can be found on page 82.
Ensures alignment with shareholders interests.
Executive Directors are expected to build up share ownership Share over a period of five years and maintain holdings of at least 2x base salary.
ownership STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 87 PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES ELEMENT TO STRATEGY Rewards annual performance against challenging financial, The Group operates a Group-wide bonus pool which is funded based Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 225 per cent of salary for CEO and Based on a combination of financial e. g. adjusted operating profit, Annual bonus strategic and individual targets linked to Group strategy.
ownership 88 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Notes to the Policy Table Recruitment policy Selection of performance measures When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Performance targets are set by the Committee to be both stretching and Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the principles: economic landscape.
The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre required by the Group.
Consistent with The performance measures that are used for our annual bonus and Long the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee would intend to pay Term Incentive Plan LITP have been chosen to support the Groups strategy.
no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The ongoing remuneration package would normally include For the annual bonus plan, the Committee continues to believe that it is the key elements on the same terms as those set out in the policy appropriate to use a balance between financial targets, strategic objectives table for Executive Directors.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded The Committee considers that the measures to be used for the LTIP, i. e. on recruitment excluding any buy-outs referred to below is 625 per cent TSR and adjusted EPS, are currently the most appropriate measures of of salary.
Incentive awards made in the first year of appointment may long-term performance for the Group.
be subject to different performance measures and targets appropriate to the newly recruited Executive Director.
Malus and clawback provisions Recognising that the Group competes for talent in the international A malus provision applies to awards granted under the new LTIP, and to financial services sector, on an exceptional basis, the Committee has unvested awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This would allow the the ability to include other elements of pay which it feels are appropriate Committee in its absolute discretion to determine, at any time prior to the taking into account the specific commercial circumstances e. g. for an vesting of an award, to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions in certain interim appointment.
However, this would remain subject to the limit circumstances, including i where there is a material misstatement or on variable remuneration set out above.
The rationale for any such restatement of the results of the Group in its audited accounts, ii the component would be appropriately disclosed.
negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of the individual which results in significant reputational damage to the Group or which has a material adverse In addition, where an individual forfeits arrangements as a result of effect on the financial position of the Group or the business opportunities appointment, the Committee may offer a buy-out, in such form as the of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the Group Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors which suffers significant reputational damage or material adverse effect which may include the vehicle, expected value and timing of forfeited on its financial position or on its business opportunities.
Any such buy-out will be limited to the commercial value of payments and awards forfeited by the individual.
A clawback provision applies to vested awards granted under the new LTIP, Where an Executive Director is required to relocate from their home vested awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and annual bonuses paid location to take up their role, the Committee may provide reasonable previously.
This would allow the Committee in its absolute discretion to claw relocation assistance and other allowances including expatriate back from individuals some or all of the vested awards or paid bonus in assistance.
Global relocation support normally for up to five years certain circumstances, including i if there is a material misstatement or and any associated costs or benefits including but not limited to restatement of the results of the Group in its audited accounts, ii the housing, school fees, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of the individual which results in back to the home country may also be provided if business needs significant reputational damage to the Group or a material adverse effect on require it.
Should the Executives employment be terminated without the financial position of the Group or the business opportunities of the Group, cause by the Group, repatriation costs will be met by the Group.
or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the Group which suffers significant reputational damage or material adverse effect on its financial In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, legacy position or on its business opportunities.
Clawback will normally apply for a terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension period of three years following vesting of shares and or payment of bonus, entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors see page 92.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 89 Service contracts and payments for departing Directors Treatment of variable incentives Policy in respect of new appointments Annual bonus Individuals may be considered for an annual bonus The Groups current policy is that Executive Directors service agreements in respect of the period prior to cessation.
Any award should have notice periods that are no longer than 12 months.
The Group may would be at the discretion of the Committee, subject terminate an Executive Directors service agreement by making a payment in to the Executive Directors performance and period lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits of employment.
allowance, life and medical insurance but excluding bonus and share Deferred Bonus For good leavers, awards vest at the normal vesting date, incentives plus any accrued unused holiday entitlement.
Consideration will Plan 2014 although the Committee may determine that awards be given to appropriate mitigation terms to reduce payments in lieu of notice vest on cessation of employment.
The award will usually made on termination in the event of the Executive Director commencing vest in full or on a prorated basis at the Committees discretion.
Good leavers are those who cease to be an alternative employment, being appointed as a Non-Executive Director or employee of a member of the Group by reason of death, providing services pursuant to a consultancy agreement in the 12 months injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, the sale of the following the Executive Directors departure.
individuals employing business or the transfer of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without prejudice to to a range of relevant factors including the Executive the Groups ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach of the Directors performance, length of service and notice period referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to the circumstances of their departure.
Liquidated damages clauses are not used.
The Group may Where an individual is not considered to be a good pay the Executive Directors reasonable legal fees for receiving advice in leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Where an individual connection with the termination of their employment.
is summarily dismissed, all his awards will lapse.
In the event of termination by the Group, each Executive Director may have Deferred awards are subject to malus and vested awards are subject to clawback as detailed under page 88. an entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK and potentially elsewhere.
Directors and Officers liability insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent Long-Term Incentive For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the permitted by the law and the Groups Articles of Association are provided to Plan 2014 normal vesting date and following the end of the performance period, unless the Committee determines the Executive Directors for the duration of their employment and for a that awards should vest following cessation of minimum of seven years following termination.
Vesting will be subject to performance and unless the Committee determines otherwise The Committee considers that this is consistent with current best practice or that another basis of reduction is appropriate prorated for time in employment.
Good leavers are and this approach will generally be adopted for new appointments.
Where those who cease to be an employee of a member appropriate and when recruiting non-UK based Directors, the Committee may of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, agree different terms based on local legal requirements or market practice.
ill-health, redundancy, and the sale of the individuals employing business or transfer of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors including the Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Unvested awards are subject to malus and vested awards are subject to clawback as detailed under page 88.
90 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Detailed share plan provisions Mr Warren commence alternative employment, be appointed as a NonShare awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which Executive Director or provide services pursuant to a consultancy agreement the award has been granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in the relevant period of 12 months following his departure from the Group, only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making the instalments will be reduced by one-twelfth of the annual remuneration adjustments to awards to reflect certain corporate events, including a earned from the alternative employment, directorship or consultancy.
variation in the Companys share capital, a demerger or a special dividend.
Payments of the instalments may be required to be deferred until six months after termination by US tax rules applying to Mr Warren.
To the extent that In change of control circumstances, all LTIP awards will normally vest on an any payment or benefits payable to Mr Warren under his service agreement accelerated basis subject to the extent that the performance conditions are or under any bonus or share incentive plan would be subject to US excise tax, satisfied, and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
the payments and benefits may be reduced if this would result in Mr Warren Deferred Bonus awards will normally vest in full.
The Committee may also receiving a greater after tax amount than if the benefits were not reduced.
On allow some or all of an award to be exchanged if not yet vested.
termination other than by reason of summary dismissal Mr Warren will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his employment is Individual terms terminated subject to company and individual performance.
1 Xavier Rolet entered into a service agreement with the Group on 25 February 2009 and was appointed with effect from 16 March 2009.
Xavier Rolets Raffaele Jerusalmi entered into a service agreement with Borsa Italiana on 1 service agreement can be terminated by either party giving not less than October 2001, amended on 3 May 2011, and a service agreement with LSEG 12 months notice.
Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by Holdings Italy on 3 May 2011, which reflects his period of continuous service making a payment in lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, from 1 October 2001.
On 1 April 2013, Raffaele Jerusalmis employment pension, flexible benefits allowance, life and private medical insurance contract transferred from LSEG Holdings Italy to LSEG Holdings Italia S. p. A. but excluding bonus and share incentives paid in a lump sum or, at the Raffaele Jerusalmis employment contracts with Borsa Italiana and LSEG Committees absolute discretion, paid in 12 equal monthly instalments from Holdings Italia S. p. A. expressly state that no collective bargaining agreements the date of termination of the employment.
Alternatively, the Group may in apply to his employment and accordingly, the terms applying to the its discretion continue to provide pension, life and private medical insurance termination of his employment are governed by Italian law.
If Raffaele for the 12 months following termination.
If the payment is made in Jerusalmi is dismissed, his notice period will be equal to eight months based instalments and Mr Rolet commences alternative employment, is appointed on continuous service since 1 October 2001 until 1 October 2016 and equal to as a Non-Executive Director or provides services pursuant to a consultancy nine months from 2 October 2016 onwards.
If Raffaele Jerusalmi resigns, he is agreement in the relevant period of 12 months following his departure from required to give three months notice.
On termination of either employment the Group, the instalments will be reduced by one-twelfth of the annual for any reason, Raffaele Jerusalmi is entitled to severance payments under remuneration earned from the alternative employment, directorship or Italian law equal to: i Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR which Raffaele consultancy.
On termination other than by reason of summary dismissal Jerusalmi has elected to transfer to his private pension plan on a monthly Mr Rolet will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his basis since August 2007.
He will therefore not be entitled to further TFR employment is terminated subject to company and individual performance.
The TFR contributions currently equate to 7.4 per cent including solidarity tax at the current rate of 0.49 per cent, which does 1 David Warren entered into a service agreement with the Group on 11 June not count towards Raffaele Jerusalmis contributions to his private pension 2012 and was appointed with effect from 2 July 2012.
David Warrens service plan of base salary, benefits, annual bonus and LTIP paid to Raffaele agreement may be terminated by either party giving at least 12 months Jerusalmi during his employment: ii prorated supplementary monthly notice.
Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by payment in payments the annual salary is normally paid in 12 instalments plus two lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits supplementary monthly payments : and iii a payment in lieu of untaken allowance, life and private medical insurance but excluding bonus and share holidays, if any.
Where no just cause for termination exists, a payment in lieu incentives.
Any payment in lieu of notice will be paid in 12 equal monthly of notice is payable if the employment is terminated with immediate effect.
instalments from the date of termination of the employment.
Alternatively, The payment in lieu of notice is in addition to the payments at i, ii and iii the Group may in its discretion continue to provide pension and life and above and is equal to the overall salary due to Raffaele Jerusalmi during the private medical insurance for the 12 months following termination.
For these purposes, overall salary includes base salary, average of any variable pay and TFR contributions paid during the last 36 months of the employment, and benefits in kind.
O n 1 January 2015, Xavier Rolet and David Warren transferred their contracts of employment to a newly created entity called LSEG Employment Services Ltd. No Changes were made to their employment terms and conditions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 91 Remuneration policy for other employees and consideration In setting remuneration for Executive Directors, the Committee considers the of wider employee remuneration overall approach to reward employees across the Group taking into account The remuneration policy for senior Executives and other employees is the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development within a role and or determined based on similar principles to Executive Directors.
For roles below significant market movement.
the main Board, the exact structure and balance are tailored based on various factors including the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development Salary increases of Executive Directors in percentage terms are in line with within a role and or significant market movement.
The Committee reviews those of employees in their local jurisdictions.
The Committee does not and comments on the salary, bonus and LTIP awards of the senior Executives formally consult directly with employees on Executive Directors pay.
The immediately below Board level and approves the overall design and Committee receives ongoing regulatory updates and information on external distribution of incentive awards available to all employees, including market practices from its independent external advisers which provide share-based plans.
The approach in respect of base salary and benefits is generally consistent Consideration of shareholders views across the organisation.
Executive Directors and other senior managers The Committee is mindful of shareholder views when setting and evaluating remuneration includes a greater proportion of performance related pay when ongoing remuneration principles, and commits to consulting with compared to other employees.
The Committee considers this is essential to shareholders prior to any significant changes to the remuneration policy.
differentiate levels of responsibility and align pay to sustainable long-term performance and shareholders interests.
Shareholders have been particularly supportive of the simplification of the Group incentive arrangements without increasing the overall All employees are eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan which is incentive opportunities.
subject to similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Some Sales employees are eligible to participate in commission plans rather They have welcomed the compulsory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonus than the annual bonus plan.
Opportunities vary by organisational level.
into shares until the increased minimum shareholding requirement is met.
The Committee has taken shareholders feedback into account and proposed Other senior employees participate in long-term incentive plans on that in addition to the malus provision applied to any bonus amount deferred, similar terms to Executive Directors but with reduced award levels for a clawback provision should apply to the entire bonus.
The Committee is incorporating similar malus and clawback provisions The malus provision on unvested awards applies automatically to all awards for awards under the new LTIP.
granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the 2014 LTIP.
However, the Committee will have the discretion to determine at the grant date whether the clawback rule on paid bonuses and vested awards will apply to awards granted to participants other than Executive Directors.
Below the Board, LTIP participants excluding Executive Directors may continue to be eligible for matching share awards if they acquire investment shares up to 50 per cent of their net salary at or around the time the award is granted.
92 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits which is considered appropriate to attract individuals fee with additional fees payable for further Board or entitlements other than their fees and reasonable with the necessary experience and ability to make an and Group responsibilities such as committee expenses.
The Chairman receives the use of a important contribution to the Groups affairs.
chairmanship or membership, subsidiary board chauffeur-driven motor car for travel to the Groups or committee membership and Senior offices and business purposes.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Independent Director.
Remuneration Committee, and the Board is Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated responsible for determining all other Non-Executive The Non-Executive Chairman of the Group receives taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional Director fees.
an all-inclusive fee for the role.
advice in the furtherance of their duties incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to Fees are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain Fees are neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Committee retains the flexibility to increase, adjust and make one-off payments to Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Directors Non-Executive Directors based on their remit.
participate in the annual bonus or LTIP plans.
and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Fees are set taking into account the level of responsibility, relevant experience and specialist knowledge of each Non-Executive Director and fees at other companies of a similar size and complexity.
The aggregate fees payable to all Non-Executives combined excluding the Chairman and excluding fees paid for any appointments on subsidiary boards are capped as set out in the Groups Articles of Association as they may be amended by a resolution of shareholders from time to time.
The current limit on the aggregate fees that are payable is 1,500,000 per financial year.
Details of current fees are set out on page 101.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with no notice period except for the Group Chairman who has a notice period of six months unless he is not re-elected by shareholders in which case his appointment will terminate immediately.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments are for an initial period of three years from the date of appointment and are also subject to re-election by shareholders.
See page 102 for a description of arrangements that have been put in place for Chris Gibson-Smith during 2015.
Amendments to the Remuneration Policy Report The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee remains mindful that regulation of companies in the financial services sector continues to evolve.
The Committee recognises that remuneration arrangements may need to be amended in order to comply with any new regulations which become applicable to the Group.
The Committee reserves the right to make changes to the Policy described above in order to comply with any such regulatory requirements which apply to the Group including any changes required under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where this results in a major structural change, the Committee would expect to present a revised policy to shareholders for approval at the following AGM.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 93 Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors The chart below illustrates how much the current Executive Directors could receive under different scenarios in the first year of the policy, assuming a constant share price.
Note that London Stock Exchange Group plc does not have a stated target level for bonus and share awards, so we have assumed 50 per cent of maximum awards to illustrate a mid-range scenario.
Element of remuneration Detail of assumptions This comprises: Fixed remuneration Base salary with effect from 1 April 2014 Benefits paid in FY2014 as shown in the single figure table in the Annual Remuneration Report Pension Annual Bonus Assumes maximum opportunity of 225 per cent of salary for CEO and 200 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors For mid-range scenario: assumes payment of 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes payment of 100 per cent of the maximum opportunity Assumes maximum opportunity of 300 per cent of salary in conditional shares Long Term Incentive Plan For mid-range scenario: assumes 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes vesting of 100 per cent of the maximum opportunity Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long term remuneration Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi 000 000 000 5,000 4,825 4,000 46% 2,901 3,000 2,872 2,775 38% 44% 43% 2,000 1,810 1,783 34% 35% 33% 28% 976 30% 29% 1,000 792 747 23% 22% 100% 34% 20% 100% 41% 26% 100% 44% 29% 0 Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max 94 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Legacy arrangements The Committee may make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments where the terms of the payment were agreed granted i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
Executive Directors have awards outstanding under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 which expired in July 2014.
Element Summary The 2004 LTIP plan has two elements: a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked Long Term Incentive to investment by Executive Directors of up to 50 per cent of net salary funded from their bonus payment.
The pre-tax value Plan 2004 of the amount deferred is matched on a 2:1 basis subject to the standard LTIP performance targets as specified below Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares are subject to the Groups absolute TSR 50 per cent and adjusted EPS 50 per cent performance over a single three-year period the performance period.
For absolute TSR, the performance period started on the date of grant and for adjusted EPS on the first day of the financial year in which the award is granted.
For absolute TSR, performance is calculated using a two-month average share price at the start and at the end of the performance period to ensure any anomalous share price movements at these measurement points do not have a disproportionate effect on the assessment of performance over the full three-year period.
The Committee considers the use of both of these measures will best align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Both absolute TSR and adjusted EPS measures are independently verified by Deloitte LLP.
The performance conditions and vesting schedule for awards granted in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 are set out below.
The same targets also apply to awards granted prior to the date that the new LTIP Plan was approved at the July 2014 AGM.
EPS element 50% TSR element 50% Proportion of relevant average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
30% 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Our policy is to grant awards on an annual cycle.
Awards will normally vest three years after the grant date.
Details of how the Committee intends to measure performance for these awards to reflect the change in the financial year are set out on page 82.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect certain one-off events, including a variation in the Companys share capital, a demerger or a special dividend.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares where the Committee considers this appropriate.
For good leavers, awards vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
Good leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a member of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, and the sale of the individuals employing business or transfer of the Company out of the Group or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors including the Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
The number of shares which vest will be reduced on a time prorated basis to reflect the period elapsed between grant and the individual leaving.
On retirement, awards continue to be subject to the LTIP until the end of the performance period and will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at the normal vesting date unless the Committee chooses to let awards vest at the date of retirement, in which case vesting will depend on the satisfaction of the performance conditions and will be subject to time pro-rating.
Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, awards will lapse.
Where an individual is summarily dismissed, all their awards will lapse.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions and unless the Committee determines otherwise, on a time prorated basis.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION G Gove over rn na an nc ce e D Di ir rec ect tor ors s R Re emu mun ne er ra at ti ion on R Re ep por ort t 95 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have been operated during the past 9-month financial period, and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year CY2015.
This report will be put to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
The information from this page to page 109 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
Salary as at April 2014 prorated for the 9-month period.
Flexible benefits allowance of 20,000 prorated for 9 months.
Annual pension allowance of 25 per cent of salary.
Value for Long Term Incentives shown for 9 months to December 2014 represents estimated value of share awards granted in 2012 that are expected to vest in June 2015.
The estimate assumes 100 per cent vesting of the TSR element and nil per cent vesting of the EPS element.
The value is based on a three-month average share price from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014, being 20.49.
Value shown for FY2014 represents the actual vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2011 that vested on 3 June 2014 at 19.56 Performance awards and on 8 July 2014 at 19.60 Matching Awards.
Benefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance, Save As You Earn SAYE and commuting expenses with associated taxes including a chauffeur-driven motor car where appropriate.
Mr Rolet contributed 250 per month to the SAYE plan between April and December 2014.
SAYE has been valued based on the monthly savings amount 250 and the discount provided 20 per cent between 1 April 2014 and 31 December 2014 i. e. 250 x 9 months x 20 per cent.
139,031 Performance shares vested on 3 June 2014 at 19.56 per share.
63,380 Matching shares vested on 8 July 2014 at 19.60 per share.
B enefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance and expatriate allowances with associated taxes.
This includes a 50 per cent reduction in housing allowance with effect from November 2014.
Benefits represent the cash value of private medical, disability and life insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel benefit for the 9-month financial period.
Pension: mandatory INPS contributions calculated on salary, benefits and bonus for the 9-month period.
Trattamento di Fine Rapporto mandatory arrangements calculated on salary, capped benefits, bonus and shares and paid into Mr Jerusalmis pension plan for the 9-month period.
51,493 Performance shares vested on 3 June 2014 at 19.56 per share.
Additional notes to the Single total figure of remuneration Audited Fixed pay Base salary When reviewing Executive Director salaries, and in line with our policy, the Committee considers multiple reference points including companies in the FTSE 31-100, the broader Financial Services sector and other international exchanges.
Benefits A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, additionally in Italy only, disability, illness, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on elective benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
96 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Where received as a cash supplement, this allowance is not used to calculate Retirement Benefits bonus payments or pension contributions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically In the UK, pension provision for our Executive Directors takes the form to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
Executives are eligible to of a non-consolidated cash allowance.
participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save as You Earn Option SAYE Scheme or international equivalent.
Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive an allowance equivalent to 25 per cent of base salary as a taxable cash supplement.
Only base salary is Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive a flexible benefit allowance of used to calculate pension entitlement and no other pension supplements 20,000 per annum which was prorated to 15,000 for the 9-month financial apply.
During the financial period 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014, Xavier period.
These values have not been increased since last year.
Both of them Rolet contributed 30,000 into the company Group Pension Plan with also receive benefits in kind which principally include private health care and Scottish Widows.
Raffaele Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits in Italy.
Xavier Rolet contributes 250 per month into the Save As You Earn SAYE Actual benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation scheme which will mature in March 2017 with a six-month exercise window.
in force from time to time.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the Company at a rate As an expatriate from the US to UK, David Warren is also entitled to receive fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
the following net amounts: Both INPS and TFR contributions are included in the single total figure of Each year he is entitled to tax preparation and filing assistance in the US remuneration table on page 95. and the UK.
Pay for Performance The Group will meet the costs of repatriating Mr Warrens effects back to Overall the Committee wishes to position total target remuneration fixed pay, the US if it terminates his employment other than in circumstances such variable pay and benefits at or around the median of the reference points.
as serious misconduct which would justify summary termination.
The Committee considers it appropriate to reward superior performance with An allowance to cover the cost of renting accommodation in the UK during compensation levels at the upper quartile of the target market s. the first four years of his appointment.
Mr Warren received 60,000 net per annum prorated between 1 April 2014 and 31 October 2014 and 30,000 The Committee takes into account input from the Risk Committee with net per annum prorated for November and December 2014.
He will regard to performance related to risk culture awareness, transparency continue to receive 30,000 net per annum until October 2016. and accountability when assessing remuneration decisions.
An annual allowance of 30,000 net per annum to cover flights between Bonus awarded for the 9-month period to December 2014 London and New York for Mr Warren and his family.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus based on meeting or exceeding bonus targets that are set at the beginning of the year.
Raffaele Jerusalmi receives benefits in kind such as private medical, disability and life insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel.
He also contributes For the 9-month period to December 2014, the Committee determined that towards the Italian mandatory national insurance system.
the sole annual financial target should again be adjusted operating profit.
The Committee considers adjusted operating profit to be of particular There are no contractual malus or clawback provisions in place in relation significance for the Group and believes it should continue to be the main to benefits.
financial measure for annual bonus plan purposes.
At least 50 per cent of the annual bonus pool is subject to achieving this financial target.
Other Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance measures include the achievement of strategic and individual targets.
maximum bonus opportunity is 225 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 200 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors.
Bonus awards were calculated on the basis of salaries prorated for nine months April to December 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 97 Determination of Bonus for the 9-month period to December 2014 The Committee determined the overall Group bonus pool with reference to the 9-month performance period to 31 December 2014.
The performance measures and targets are set out below: Actual performance Target Performance relative to target Maximum percentage of bonus Actual percentage of bonus 1 Group AOP 9-month period to 9-month period Above Target 50 34 9-month December 2014 to December 2014 period to December Adjusted operating Adjusted operating 2 2014 profit of 417.5 profit of 364 Group Bonus million AOP.
million Pool Strategic Acquisition of Frank Russell Company.
Significantly above Target 50 46 Deliverables Identification of 60 million cost synergies in LCH.
Clearnet and implementation of revenue synergies and delivery of cost savings targets.
Launch of globeSettle to attract international assets under management AUMs above $200 billion, FTSE now 3rd largest Exchange Traded Fund ETF Index provider.
Leadership positioning of Exchange Traded Products ETP market in Europe with new development in US and Asia and grew ETF market share.
AOP excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles, non-recurring items and unrealised net investment gains losses at LCH.
For the purposes of determining the bonus pool, Group AOP for the 9-month period to December 2014 does not include any Frank Russell Company contribution for the relevant part of December 2014 as this was not foreseen when the targets were set at the start of the performance period.
Chief Executive Officer Under Xavier Rolets leadership, LSEG has had yet another strong year in 2014.
Our adjusted income rose 17.7 per cent to 1,291 million and AOP increased 13.1 per cent to 543 million both on a full 12-month calendar year basis and excluding contribution from Frank Russell Company, despite loss of revenues from LME at LCH.
On a cost base of 749 million, the cost income ratio of 58 per cent reflected ongoing strong control of the cost base.
The principal strategic achievement was the US$2.7 billion acquisition of Frank Russell Company, while the ongoing management of LCH.
Clearnet, leading to its increased contribution, was another key feature of the years performance.
The Groups share price continues to outperform the FTSE 100 comparator group.
In 2014 LSEG was the third-highest climber in the FTSE 100 with a 64 per cent increase in market capitalisation touching 8 billion for the first time and LSEG ranked number 55 in the FTSE 100.
The share price was the highest performing in the major international exchanges sector in 2014.
This performance reflected investors growing trust in the strategy and managements track record of delivering on promises.
Chief Financial Officer The Committee noted that David Warren had continued to deliver towards the Groups overall growth and success.
In particular he made a significant contribution to the Frank Russell Company acquisition including the completion of the Rights Issue alongside his other, ongoing responsibilities.
In addition to the strong financial results noted for Xavier Rolet above, the Committee also recognised the identification of 60 million cost synergies in LCH.
Clearnet and the implementation of revenue synergies and delivery of cost savings targets across the Group.
Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana & Director of Capital Markets In addition to his responsibilities as an Executive Director for the Group, Raffaele Jerusalmi has led our Capital Markets and Post Trade divisions representing some 33 per cent of the Groups Total Income: a 12 per cent increase in revenues for Capital Markets.
Primary Markets saw a seven-year high in new issues activity with 219 new companies admitted.
Cash equity average daily values increased 15 per cent in UK and there was a 16 per cent increase in average number of daily trades in Italy.
The Committee also wished to recognise continued innovation in these divisions such as Monte Titolis successful testing with the European Central Bank, the establishment of globeSettle the new Central Securities Depository CSD in Luxembourg and the continued expansion of the Elite initiative.
98 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Based on the above context and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee awarded bonuses to each of the Executive Directors as follows: Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets 1 150% of annual salary 129% of annual salary 125% of annual salary Bonus for % of salary 9 9 9 200% of 12 of salary 173% of 12 of salary 167% of 12 of salary 9-month period to 2 % of maximum 89% 86% 83% December 2014 total amount 1,100,000 550,000 600,000 Of which 50% 550,000 275,000 300,000 is deferred Deferred vehicle 100% into LSEG shares 100% into LSEG shares 100% into cash Notes: 1.
Refers to 1 April 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Refers to maximum for 9-month period.
Compulsory deferral of bonus for 9-month period to December 2014 Executives must now compulsorily defer 50 per cent of their bonus for a period of two years.
This provision applies to the bonus amount for the 9-month period to December 2014 above and operates as follows: Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, the percentage of bonus that is deferred will be deferred 100 per cent into shares: and Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are able to elect to defer under three different approaches: 100 per cent of the deferral amount into shares: 50 per cent into shares and 50 per cent into cash: or 100 per cent into cash.
Long term incentive plan LTIP Executive Directors have awards outstanding under the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan which expired in July 2014 see page 94 for details of plan.
Awards granted in June and July 2011 with a performance period ended in CY2014 The performance period for the absolute TSR element of the Performance Share and Matching Share awards ended in June and July 2014 respectively.
The awards granted in 2011 were based on absolute TSR performance in the three years from grant, and adjusted EPS performance in the three year period to March 2014.
Over the period the Company delivered adjusted EPS growth of 13.3 per cent per annum for performance and matching shares.
Subsequently the adjusted EPS element for both these awards delivered 100 per cent vesting.
Annualised Absolute TSR performance between 3 June 2011 and 2 June 2014 was 31 per cent per annum and therefore vested at the full 100 per cent for this element.
Vesting price as at 3 June 2014 for Performance shares was 19.56.
Vesting price as at 8 July 2014 for Matching shares was 19.60.
Awards granted in June 2012 with a performance period ending in CY2015 The value shown in the single figure table on page 95 for the 9-month period to December 2014 represents the estimated value of the 2012 awards which will vest in June 2015.
The estimate assumes 100 per cent vesting of the TSR element and nil per cent vesting of the EPS element and is based on a three-month average share price from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014.
The final vesting outcome including the actual share price at vesting following the end of the performance period will be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration covering CY2015.
The same performance conditions described above apply to all awards granted between 2011 and 2013, namely: EPS element 50% TSR element 50% average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth Proportion of relevant element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
30% 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Due to the financial year-end change, EPS will be measured over three complete financial periods over 33 months for 2012, 2013 and 2014 grants.
From CY2015 onwards, grants will return to being measured over 36 months, on a calendar year basis.
The financial year-end change does not affect the TSR measurement period which remains three calendar years from grant.
The Committee will determine final outcomes to ensure there is no material advantage or disadvantage to participants due to either the year-end change or the impact of the Rights Issue.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 99 LTIP Awards Granted in CY2014 Audited LTIP awards during CY2014 were made in August 2014 under the new LTIP, approved at the July 2014 AGM.
It was originally intended that these awards would have been made in June 2014 under the previous LTIP prior to the AGM.
Under the previous LTIP, there was the opportunity to receive a Matching Award provided individuals voluntarily invested up to 50 per cent of their net salary into shares, which could be matched on a 2:1 basis subject to performance.
Under the new 2014 LTIP, there is no longer a matching option.
This has been simplified and the Committee can award up to 300 per cent of salary at grant.
Therefore, for the financial period ended 31 December 2014, awards of Performance Shares were made with a value of 300 per cent of salary for Xavier Rolet, 176 per cent of salary for David Warren, and 281 per cent of salary for Raffaele Jerusalmi at rate of 1 1.23.
Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets % of salary 300% of salary 176% of salary 281% of salary CY2014 LTIP Nil-cost face value 2,199,000 750,000 Sterling equivalent of 1,349,000 performance options granted on 1 share price 20.36 20.36 20.36 27 August 2 2014 Number of LTIP 108,005 36,836 54,015 shares granted pre Rights issue Equivalent number 117,250 39,989 58,638 of LTIP shares granted as adjusted post Rights issue Notes: 1.
The share price of 20.36 was determined using the closing price MMQ on 26 August 2014 and approved by the Share Scheme Committee a sub-committee of the Remuneration Committee.
TSR is measured over a 60 day trailing average at the start and end of the 3-year performance period which will end on 26 August 2017.
EPS is measured over three financial years.
Due to the change in financial year-end, EPS performance will be measured over a period of 33 months ending 31 December 2016 and compared to the EPS for FY2014.
Other share plans SAYE All UK employees, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the HM Revenue & Customs approved Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE.
Under the rules of the SAYE, participants can now save up to 500 each month, for a period of three years.
At the end of the saving period, savings plus interest may be used to acquire shares by exercising the related option.
The options may be granted at an exercise price which represents a discount of up to 20 per cent to market value at the date of invitation.
No performance conditions are attached to SAYE options.
There is also an International Sharesave Plan ISP, which is designed to provide share options to Group employees who are not based in the UK on similar terms to the options that are available to UK employees through the SAYE.
To date, employees in France, Hong Kong, Italy, Sri Lanka and the US have participated in the ISP.
During the 9-month period to December 2014, an interim grant was made in July 2014 under the UK and international schemes.
From CY2015 onwards, annual SAYE grants will normally take place in May.
Other than the post Rights Issue adjustment, no awards under the SAYE were made to Executive Directors during the 9-month period to December 2014.
100 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Implementation of the remuneration policy during CY2015 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Base salary operation: During the year the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary levels of our Executive Directors.
In recognition of the significant change in the scale and scope of the Chief Financial Officers role, the Committee has decided to increase David Warrens annual base salary from 425,000 to 465,000.
At that time the Group was a FTSE 250 constituent with a market capitalisation of 2.7 billion, while as at 31 December 2014 the Group was ranked 55th in the FTSE 100 with a market capitalisation of 7.7 billion.
Over the period, the Group has evolved from a predominantly European-focused exchange operator to a diversified international market infrastructure and capital markets business.
The growth in the Groups global footprint, diversification and size has resulted in a significant change in the scale, scope and responsibilities of the Chief Financial Officer.
Subsequently, the Committee felt that an adjustment to salary was required to reflect this change in Mr Warrens role.
Increases for the other Directors are in line with the average employee increases, being 2 per cent for the Chief Executive and 4 per cent for Mr Jerusalmi, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital Markets.
Base salaries effective from 1 April 2015, are set out in the table below: With With effect from effect from Annual salary 1 April 2014 1 April 2015 Xavier Rolet 733,000 750,000 2% David Warren 425,000 465,000 9% Raffaele Jerusalmi 480,000 500,000 4% Annual bonus operation: For CY2015, targets will revert to a 12-month performance period.
Performance measures and weighting remain unaffected: Any bonus payment will be paid out in March 2016, with mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of bonus for a period of two years: Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, the percentage of bonus that is deferred will be deferred 100 per cent into shares.
Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are able to elect to defer under three different approaches: 100 per cent of the deferral amount into shares: 50 per cent into shares and 50 per cent into cash: or 100 per cent into cash.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions.
Bonuses already paid out under the Deferred Bonus Plan and vested awards are subject to clawback e. g. in cases of material misstatement or gross misconduct with judgement applied by the Committee.
For good leavers, awards will usually vest at the normal vesting date and in full, unless the Committee determines to scale back the award based on any factors deemed relevant.
Long Term Incentive Plan: Awards will be made in 2015 under the 2014 LTIP, as described in our Remuneration Policy on pages 86-87.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply to these awards, allowing the Committee to reduce subsisting awards or request the refund of already paid or vested awards in certain circumstances e. g. material misstatement or gross misconduct : The 2015 awards will vest three years after the grant date subject to absolute TSR and adjusted EPS performance measures as follows: EPS element 50% TSR element 50% average adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth Proportion of relevant element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
8% p. a. in CY2014 and CY2015 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 101 Awards to be made during CY2015 Based on the context as previously stated and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee has approved grants to each of the Executive Directors under the 2014 LTIP as follows: Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets 1 % of salary 300% of salary 274% of annual salary 275% of salary CY2015 LTIP award subject to amount 2,250,000 1,275,000 Sterling equivalent of 1,375,000 performance at prevailing FX rate at time of grant Notes: 1.
Salary refers to annual salary with effect from 1 April 2015.
Non-Executive Directors fees for CY2015 With effect from 1 April 2015, it was determined that there would be no proposed changes to the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fee levels in respect of LSEG Board membership which would be as follows: With With effect from effect from Fees 1 April 2014 1 April 2015 Group Chairman 370,000 370,000 Senior Independent Director 120,000 120,000 Non-Executive Director base fee 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 Risk Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 20,000 20,000 Audit Committee, Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee membership 10,000 10,000 Nomination Committee nil nil Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board and is neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is intended to recognise the significant responsibilities of Directors and to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make an important contribution to the Companys affairs.
Comparisons are made with fees paid at FTSE 31-100 companies.
Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional advice incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman receives the use of a chauffeur-driven motor car for travel to the Groups offices and business purposes.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys annual bonus or LTIP plans and are not entitled to any payments on termination.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from subsidiary companies, details of which are set out overleaf.
102 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The original date of appointment as Directors of the Company is as follows: LSEG Committee Other subsidiaries Date of letter of membership membership 5 Name Date Appointed appointment Time to expiry Notice period Date of resignation chairmanship chairmanship Nomination, Remuneration LSE plc 1 Robert Webb QC 01 02 2001 01 02 2013 31 01 2016 None Chair, SID LCH.
Clearnet Group Chairman, Nomination Chair, Chris Gibson-Smith 01 05 2003 04 03 2015 31 12 2015 1 month Remuneration 3 Andrea Munari 01 10 2007 01 10 2013 30 09 2016 None Risk Borsa Italiana Audit Chair, Paul Heiden 04 06 2010 04 06 2013 03 06 2016 None Nomination, Risk LSE plc Borsa Italiana, LSEGH Italia, Audit, CC&G and Euro Massimo Tononi 27 09 2010 27 09 2013 26 09 2016 None Nomination TLX LCH.
Robert Webb was appointed Senior Independent Director on 16 July 2014.
Paolo Scaroni stepped down from the Board on 16 July 2014.
Andrea Munari was appointed as Vice Chairman of Borsa Italiana S. p. A on 4 July 2014.
Jacques Aigrain tendered his resignation as Chairman of LCH.
Stuart Lewis was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 15 July 2014.
Sherry Coutu was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 15 May 2014.
Sharon Bowles was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 15 August 2014, to the Board of London Stock Exchange plc on 17 September 2014 and to the Audit Committee on 26 February 2015.
A ll LSEG non-executive director appointments other than the Chairman are expected to continue for a period of three years subject to earlier termination in accordance with the provisions of the Articles.
Amendment of Chairmans letter of appointment The Chairman had a letter of appointment dated 18 July 2012 under which his appointment as Director and Chairman would expire at the date of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
On 16 July 2014 it was announced that the Chairman would be stepping down by the end of 31 December 2015.
On 4 March 2015 the Chairman entered into an extension to his letter of appointment the extension letter to reflect these arrangements.
Under the extension letter, if a successor has been identified and any required handover has been completed prior to the 2015 AGM, his appointment will end on 29 April 2015.
If a successor has not been identified prior to the 2015 AGM, or if a handover period with any identified successor is required after that date, his appointment would continue until: i 31 December 2015: or ii such earlier date as the Company elects to terminate his appointment.
If the Company elects to terminate his appointment prior to 31 December 2015 he will receive no less than one months notice in writing.
The continuation of his appointment after 29 April 2015 is subject to his re-election by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and the Companys Articles of Association.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 103 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Table Audited 9 months to 9 months to 9 months to December 9 months to December 9 months to December 2014 December 2014 December FY2014 FY2014 2014 Subsidiary 2014 Taxable 2014 FY2014 Subsidiary FY2014 Taxable FY2014 1 1 LSEG Fees Fees Total Fees benefits Total LSEG Fees Fees Total Fees benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2 Robert Webb QC 74 8 81 81 80 10 90 90 Chris Gibson-Smith 277 277 59 336 370 370 83 453 3 Andrea Munari 53 10 63 2 65 70 70 3 73 Paul Heiden 68 4 71 11 83 87 5 92 7 99 4 Massimo Tononi 53 142 195 2 196 70 176 246 2 248 5 Jacques Aigrain 52 285 338 5 343 64 586 650 8 658 Stuart Lewis 57 57 57 57 57 57 Stephen OConnor 60 4 64 10 74 60 1 61 39 100 Sherry Coutu 51 51 51 13 13 13 Baroness Shields 45 4 49 49 12 1 13 13 Sharon Bowles 23 1 24 24 Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: Paolo Scaroni 38 38 3 41 130 130 130 Total Non-Executive Directors fees 851 458 1,308 92 1,400 1,013 779 1,792 142 1,934 Notes: 1.
Benefits in kind relate to travelling expenses, including taxes where applicable.
Mr Webbs fees increased to 120,000 per annum effective from 16 July 2014 when he took up the role of Senior Independent Director.
Mr Munari received a combined fee of 13,000 10,400 for his roles as Vice Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
9-month period to December 2014 rate of 1 1.25.
Mr Tononi received a combined fee of 177,625 142,100 for his roles as Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
Chairman of CC&G, Chairman of EuroTLX and Chairman and Director of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia.
Mr Tononi renounced his fees for the 9-month period to December 2014 as Director of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. and Director of London Stock Exchange Holdings Italia.
9-month period to December 2014 rate of 1 1.25, FY2014 historic rate was 1 1.21.
Mr Aigrain received an annualised fee of 380,000 as Chairman of LCH.
Alignment between pay and performance Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The following graph shows, for the financial period ended 31 December 2014 and for each of the previous five financial years, the TSR on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 100 is calculated.
The TSR graph represents the value, at 31 December 2014, of 100 invested in London Stock Exchange Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
As a member of the FTSE100, we have chosen the FTSE100 Index as it is currently the most relevant index for benchmarking our performance over the six financial periods.
TSR chart vs FTSE 100 over six financial periods FTSE 100 LSEG 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 104 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Historic levels of CEO pay CEO single total figure Annual bonus payout against Long-term incentive vesting rates Period ended: CEO of remuneration 000 maximum opportunity % against maximum opportunity % 4 5 9 months ending 31 December 2014 Xavier Rolet 4,115 89% 50% 3 31 March 2014 Xavier Rolet 6,383 93% 100% 31 March 2013 Xavier Rolet 6,015 89% 100% 31 March 2012 Xavier Rolet 5,245 100% 65% 31 March 2011 Xavier Rolet 2,134 89% 1 31 March 2010 Xavier Rolet 1,873 71% 2 Clara Furse 400 49% 0% Notes: 1.
Xavier Rolet in the role of CEO from 20 May 2009, appointed to the Board 16 March 2009.
Clara Furse in the role of CEO until 20 May 2009.
She resigned from the Board on 15 July 2009.
Value shown for the period ended 31 March 2014 represents the actual vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2011 that vested on 3 June 2014 at 19.56 Performance awards and on 8 July 2014 at 19.60 Matching Awards.
89 per cent of maximum for the 9-month period to December 2014 equivalent to 67 per cent of annualised maximum 5.
Forecast for LTIPs to vest in June 2015.
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO compared to the average of the representative sample of UK employees all LSEG UK employees excluding Frank Russell Company.
Where appropriate, amounts have been annualised to provide a like-for-like comparison.
3 Salary Benefits Annual Bonus CEO 2% 3% -1% 1 2 Average pay of Group UK employees 3% 15% 13% Notes: 1.
This group has been selected to reflect the jurisdiction in which the CEO is based.
Frank Russell Company are not included for this year.
The increase primarily reflects the commencement of the next tranche of pension auto-enrolment and benefits harmonisation with effect from 1 April 2014.
9-month period to December 2014 bonus annualised to facilitate the comparison with the previous financial year on a 12-month basis.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative 9-month period to December 2014 vs. FY2014 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 expenditure of the Group on Dividends versus Total Employee Costs.
These figures are underpinned by amounts from the Notes to the Financial Statements at the back of this report.
We are also showing CY2014 vs. CY2013 amounts to provide a like-for-like comparison.
9 month period Year-on-year increases % to December 2014 FY2014 CY2014 CY2013 Annual Increase Dividends Paid In 56.2m 80.8m 83.5m 79.7m 5% Financial Period 1 Total Employee Costs 261.7m 303.9m 354.4m 254.5m 39% Note: 1 Total employee costs include LCH.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 105 Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests as at 31 December 2014 Audited Xavier Rolet and Raffaele Jerusalmi currently own shares outright and at a level exceeding their minimum required shareholding of 2x base salary based on a share price of 22.21 being the closing share price on 31 December 2014.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 1 Shares held Options held Unvested and Unvested and subject to subject to Vested Shareholding as Owned performance continued but not Requirement at 31 December Requirement 3 2 Outright conditions employment exercised % salary 2014 % salary met Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 459,904 506,056 772 200 1,394 Yes David Warren 190,556 200 No Raffaele Jerusalmi 52,130 181,077 200 289 Yes Non-Executive Directors Robert Webb 1,527 N A Chris Gibson-Smith 81,142 N A Andrea Munari N A Paul Heiden 3,818 N A Massimo Tononi N A Jacques Aigrain N A Stuart Lewis N A Stephen OConnor N A Sherry Coutu N A Baroness Shields N A Sharon Bowles N A Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: Paolo Scaroni N A Notes: 1.
No options were exercised by the Directors during the 9-month financial period to 31 December 2014.
Shareholdings as at 31 December 2014 include adjustments that have been made to options and shares to take account of the Companys Rights Issue announced on 22 August 2014.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests Audited 2 Ordinary Shares Held LTIP Options SAYE options Total Interests 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 1 1 1 1 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 459,904 329,598 506,056 560,559 772 712 966,732 890,869 David Warren 190,556 138,695 190,556 138,695 Raffaele Jerusalmi 52,130 41,721 181,077 164,278 233,207 205,999 Non-Executive Directors Robert Webb 1,527 1,200 1,527 1,200 Chris Gibson-Smith 81,142 63,757 81,142 63,757 Andrea Munari Paul Heiden 3,818 3,000 3,818 3,000 Massimo Tononi Jacques Aigrain Stuart Lewis Stephen OConnor Sherry Coutu Baroness Shields Sharon Bowles Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: Paolo Scaroni Notes: 1.
LTIP performance shares are structured as nil-cost options.
There have been no further changes in these interests between 31 December 2014 and 3 March 2015.
106 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Plan Table The 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan had two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the Executive in the Companys shares.
The awards are dependent on Absolute TSR performance for 50 per cent of the award, with the other 50 per cent dependent on an Adjusted EPS growth target.
Details of performance conditions are set out on pages 98 and 100.
CY2015 Estimate: Average share price over the period from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 price with vesting forecast at 50 per cent.
David Warren was awarded 850,000 in nil-cost options on joining LSEG.
Vesting of Performance shares granted on 3 June 2011 at actual vesting price of 19.56.
Vesting of Matching shares granted on 8 July 2011 at actual vesting price of 19.60.
All estimates are shown separately in bold.
They will be fully disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 107 Remuneration Committee Governance The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees remit includes the remuneration including the awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes where applicable of the Chairman of the Group, Executive Directors, the Executive Committee as well as other regulated staff.
Please see pages 20-21 for details of the Groups Executive Committee.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in this Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website at www.
During the financial period ending 31 December 2014, the Committee met on four occasions.
Remuneration Committee composition and meeting attendance in the 9 month period ended December 2014 Total 4 4 Robert Webb Chairman 3 4 Chris Gibson-Smith 1 2 3 Sherry Coutu 2 2 3 Stuart Lewis 3 1 1 Paolo Scaroni Notes: 1.
The Committee met four times between April and December 2014 plus a further meeting in February 2015 to close out the remuneration decisions for the period.
Here is a summary of the items they discussed: Routine Non-Routine April 2014 Approval of Directors Remuneration Report Approval of rules for new 2014 LTIP Approval of FY2014 bonus pool Approval of key subsidiary LTIPs Performance assessment and determination of CEO Approval of rules of Deferred Bonus Plan and Executive Committee members remuneration Assessment of performance of LSEG LTIP Review and update of Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference Review of LSEG Non-Executive Directors fees Approval of Individual Restricted Stock awards August 2014: Review and approval of the FCA Remuneration Determination of impact of Rights Issue on previous disclosure unvested awards Consideration of Shareholder feedback post AGM Review of Senior Independent Director fee Approval of Individual Restricted Stock awards October 2014: Frank Russell Company potential acquisition Approval of new appointment to the Executive Committee December 2014: Review of market analysis Approval of transfers of senior Executives to LSEG Consideration of 9-month period to December 2014 Employment Services Ltd.
Performance and bonus update LTIP update and CY2015 considerations Salary review CY2015 Reviewed draft Directors Remuneration Report CY2015 bonus design Reviewed Terms of Reference Individual Restricted Stock awards 108 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Routine Non-Routine February 2015: Review of Non-Executive Directors fees 9-month period to December 2014 performance This meeting took place during CY2015 and will and bonus approval be repeated in next years report.
CY2015 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of previous LTIP schemes ShareSave vesting and CY2015 grants CY2015 bonus design Performance and determination of CEO and Executive Committee members remuneration 9-month period to December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report LCH.
Clearnet Remuneration Committee proposals Frank Russell Company CY2014 bonus and Executive Committee awards To assist the Committee, the results of market surveys are made available.
Where appropriate, the Committee invites the views of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Human Resources and the Chief Risk Officer via the Risk Committee.
None of these individuals nor the Chairman participated in any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Number % Number % Remuneration Policy Report 207,082,981 94.94 11,040,635 5.06 218,123,616 206,951 Annual Report on Remuneration 190,423,053 96.93 6,028,230 3.07 196,451,283 21,879,284 2014 LTIP 205,623,217 94.26 12,533,029 5.74 218,156,246 174,321 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors Remuneration Report 109 Advisors Outside appointments The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of recommendations Executive Directors are allowed to accept appointments as Non-Executive from key stakeholders, including institutional investor bodies.
The Committee Directors of other companies with the prior approval of the Chairman.
consults with major shareholders on any key decisions taken.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not represent a confl ict of interest with the Companys activities and where the wider Deloitte LLP is the principal advisor appointed by the Committee to provide exposure gained will be benefi cial to the development of the individual.
independent advice on executive remuneration policy and practice, and Executive Directors may retain fees to encourage them to seek out the reviews the implementation of our approved policy against current and development opportunities and valuable experience afforded by these emerging corporate governance best practice.
During the year, Deloitte LLP appointments and in recognition of the personal responsibility Executives received 176,250 excluding VAT based on actual time spent for these assume in such roles and we would disclose these fees.
This included remuneration advice provided by the Deloitte US team in relation to the Frank Russell Company acquisition.
Separately, other parts At present, none of the Executive Directors are in receipt of additional fees.
of Deloitte LLP also advised the Company during the 9-month period to December 2014 in relation to tax, internal audit, consulting and transaction Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors support services.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfi ed that the advice provided by Deloitte LLP is independent and objective.
Robert Webb Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 March 2015
