Directors remuneration report We remain strongly committed to providing a clear line of sight and linkage between our incentive arrangements and our strategic objectives.
Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Consistent with recent changes in remuneration reporting requirements, the format and content of this report has received considerable attention from the Remuneration Committee the Committee and undergone signi cant amendment this year.
I very much hope you nd the new structure helpful.
Lets start with some questions and answers, intended to deal with some of the key topics considered by the Committee during the year.
Simon Ball Remuneration Committee Chairman What are the key issues that we have dealt with this year?
Financial year 2013 14 has been a year of considerable executive change for us as an organisation.
Tony Rice stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2013 and our new Chief Executive, Phil Bentley, was appointed on 1 January 2014: we also announced that Tim Pennington our Chief Financial Offi cer would be leaving us in early June 2014 to pursue another role.
Each of these events required input from the Committee in establishing appropriate compensation arrangements for the respective individuals.
We have also secured the ongoing services of Nick Cooper, our Corporate Services Director, who will provide important continuity during our migration to Miami.
We have continued to make good progress in the restructuring of our business, with our operational hub in Miami taking shape and now providing some of the operational activities previously conducted in London.
We remain strongly committed to providing a clear line of sight and linkage between our incentive arrangements and our strategic objectives.
With the arrival of Phil Bentley and the refocus on operational metrics around Top Line Growth, Pro tability, Customer Satisfaction and Returns, the targets for both the annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will be aligned with a balanced scorecard of KPIs against which the business will be measured and monitored and which it is considered will deliver our strategic objectives in both the short and long term.
In addition, we have reviewed our share plans to ensure that they comply with US requirements on deferred compensation, and have reviewed the Committees terms of reference and are comfortable they remain appropriate and relevant to our business.
56 Cable & Wireless Communications How is remuneration aligned with delivering Group strategy?
What was the exit package for Tim Pennington?
As detailed in the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 15, Tim stepped down from the Board on 10 February 2014 and is due the Company has devised a strategy for growth with the to leave the business at the start of June 2014.
He will not receive overarching objective of growing customer relationships and any payment in lieu of the balance of his notice period aft er his exit lifetime value by delivering unparalleled customer experience, date.
As Tim will have worked the whole of the financial year where our customers fide ne excellence.
In order to achieve this, 2013 14, he is eligible to receive a bonus for the financial year we have developed four strategic objectives: growing top line 2013 14 further details on the bonus to be paid are detailed on revenue, maintaining cost effi ciency, increasing returns on capital page 70.
Under the rules of the LTIP, any unvested LTIP awards aft er and delivering unparalleled customer service.
Our remuneration the date of his departure will lapse and all bene ts will also cease.
strategy over the medium and long term is fully aligned with these strategic objectives.
If they are delivered on a sustained basis then What bonus LTIP have been earned for financial year 2013 14?
senior executives including the Directors will be rewarded Overall, Group EBITDA was 5% ahead of the prior year representing through our annual and long term incentive plans.
These plans a marked out performance of plan and our best year on year incorporate Revenue Growth, EBITDA and Net Promoter Score improvement since demerger.
In addition there has been which is a means of measuring customer loyalty measures.
In strong underlying cash performance with equity free cash ow addition, we have incorporated Economic Pro t in the LTIP as it is a US$58 million higher than the prior year.
As a result, for the measure of the extent to which we are able to deliver pro ts above financial year 2013 14, we are near to the maximum bonus target our cost of capital over the longer term.
for EBITDA and have achieved the maximum target on our Net Cash Flow before Financing NCFbF bonus target.
When combined What is the remuneration package for our new CEO?
with performance against personal targets, this has resulted in Phil Bentleys package for financial year 2014 15 consists of a base bonus payments for the Executive Directors of between 96% salary of 800,000 per annum which will next be reviewed in April and 86% of the maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary.
2015, a pension allowance of 25% of salary, bonus opportunity of The 2010 LTIP award granted on 4 June 2010 was due to vest in 150% of base salary, annual LTIP award of 200% of salary, car and June 2013.
However, the Company did not meet the minimum travel bene ts, an accommodation allowance and reimbursement performance target of 8% per annum compound total shareholder of other necessary expenses incurred whilst living and working in return and therefore the award lapsed in full during the 2013 14 Miami.
Because we require him to work in both the UK and Miami, financial year.
our objective is to ensure he is neither worse off nor better off as a result of having to live for part of each month in each country whilst The 2011 LTIP awards granted on 2 June 2011 are subject to the his family resides in the UK.
On recruitment in January 2014, in order same performance conditions as the 2010 awards, measured over to secure his appointment, Phil was granted an LTIP award for the the three year period from the date of grant.
As at 30 April 2014, financial year 2013 14 of 300% of base salary subject to when TSR performance was last measured, based on 35 months of performance measured over three years and continued service, the performance period, 100% of the shares were forecast to vest.
the award of which was contingent on him purchasing shares with Further details regarding targets and actual performance for a value of at least 200% of salary.
These shares were awarded on financial year 2013 14 are detailed on page 72.
2 January 2014 and Phil purchased shares with a face value of just over 300% of his salary at the date of purchase.
Further details on What is changing for the year ahead?
the package and the performance measures attached to his As mentioned earlier, we have conducted a review of our future remuneration can be found in the Annual report on remuneration shortand long-term incentive arrangements, further details of on page 68. which are presented in this report pages 68 to 69.
What was the exit package for Tony Rice?
At the same time, given the change of the Chief Executive and Given the Boards requirement for the Chief Executive to spend an Chief Financial Offi cer and the importance of establishing the increasingly larger portion of time in Miami, Tony Rice stood down operational hub in Miami, the Board felt that retaining Nick Cooper from his Chief Executive duties on 31 December 2013, but has to provide continuity at the executive level and to focus his eff orts remained available to support Phil Bentley, if required, up to on establishing the Miami offi ce over the next 12 months was 30 June 2014.
Tony elected to waive his contractual entitlement critical.
Consequently, the Committee decided that for the financial to 12 months remuneration in lieu of notice and his pension year 2014 15, his remuneration arrangements will be structured allowance of 25% of salary, both of which ceased on 31 December such that he will receive an annual bonus of 300% of salary rather 2013.
He remained eligible to receive a pro-rated bonus to than 150% of salary, with half the bonus based on the standard 31 December 2013, and any unvested shares will continue to annual bonus measures for the 2014 15 financial year and the accrue until 30 June 2014.
Health and life cover will also remain in remaining half subject to the strategic objective of the place until 30 June 2014 and aft er 30 June 2014: as a good leaver, development of the new regional Miami hub and the reshaped any unvested awards will be treated in accordance with the existing operating model.
The enhanced bonus is in lieu of him receiving an share plan rules.
LTIP grant for the financial year 2014 15 of 150% of salary, so in net terms his remuneration potential will remain unchanged from the prior year.
