Directors Remuneration report Part 1 Annual Statement from the Chair of the Committee Dear shareholder they would continue to participate in the Companys annual bonus scheme, with any awards made for 2014 being pro-rated to the date of leaving employment.
Following the cessation of their employment on 17 October 2014, no additional payments were made to either individual in lieu of the salary or pension or other benefits to which they would have been entitled had they worked the remainder of their notice periods.
Finally, the committee concluded that Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts should both be treated as good leavers for the purposes of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP with the result that their outstanding awards under that scheme will continue to vest As the Chair of Cairns remuneration committee the remuneration on their original terms, subject to application of the performance committee or the committee, I am pleased to present our Directors conditions at the end of the normal performance period and a time Remuneration Report for 2014. pro-rating reduction.
Further details of the pay arrangements that have been applied to Last year was the first time that shareholders were asked to vote the above individuals following the cessation of their directorships separately on both our Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual can be found throughout the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Report on Remuneration and the committee was encouraged by the strong support for both resolutions shown by the Companys members.
Board changes recruitment of James Smith James Smith joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became CFO The overall executive remuneration framework that was approved at on 15 May 2014.
His annual base salary was set at 350,000 and the last years AGM was intended to operate for the remainder of 2014 and remaining elements of his remuneration package on appointment were the following two financial years.
It was subsequently applied throughout consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
2014 and the committee continues to believe that it remains fit for As a consequence, during the year he participated in both the existing purpose for 2015.
As a consequence, shareholders are not being asked LTIP and annual bonus scheme with awards under the latter to approve a new Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM.
arrangement being pro-rated by reference to the part of the However, for ease of reference the substantive provisions of the approved period that he was employed by the Company.
policy are repeated in Part 2 of this report.
Part 3, which contains our Annual Report on Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these In connection with his recruitment, and as previously announced on provisions were actually applied in 2014 and how they will be operated 10 April 2014, James Smith was also granted an award of 200,000 in 2015.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an in order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
employment due to his resignation to join Cairn.
50% of this award was paid in cash on commencement of employment with the remaining 50% Summary of 2014 business context and key being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released remuneration decisions after the completion of 12 months service.
The aggregate value of The work of the committee in 2014 was conducted against a backdrop this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements.
frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet with financial flexibility.
Additional information in relation to James Smiths pay arrangements and recruitment buy-out award is set out pages 86 and 87 of the Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2014 are described in more Annual Report on Remuneration.
detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 85 to 97 and can be summarised as follows: Annual bonus During the early part of the year, the committee carried out an Base salary increases interim review of the 2014 annual bonus scheme in order to determine Each of the individuals that were executive directors of the Company whether any variations were required to reflect the exceptional as at 1 January 2014 being Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after Watts received an increase to base salary of 2.5% with effect from the original structure had been agreed.
The conclusion reached was that date.
This was consistent with the level of standard annual salary that the committee should use its discretionary powers under the increase awarded to other employees at that time.
Companys approved Directors Remuneration Policy to alter the Board changes departure of Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts weightings ascribed to a number of the Group KPIs in order to On 15 May 2014, Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, and increase the relative importance of balance sheet strength.
Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, stood down as executive directors of The committee was also required to consider whether the cessation the Company.
Both individuals agreed to work a portion of their notice of directorship by Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts necessitated the periods, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue making of any variation to the terms of their participation in the bonus in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014. scheme over the remainder of the period of their employment with the It was agreed that, during the time they remained as employees of the Company.
The committee decided that, in order to better reflect their Group following cessation of directorship: revised roles, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses a reduction of 75,000 would be applied to both individuals base should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual salaries: and 76 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy Dear shareholder Introduction At the AGM held on 15 May 2014, shareholders overwhelmingly approved performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference a new Directors Remuneration Policy for the Company.
This policy, which to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue.
specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises The committee is firmly of the view that the amended weightings the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as described above full details of which are set out in page 89 of the the recruitment of new directors and or the making of any payments for loss of Annual Report on Remuneration were entirely necessary in order office, became effective immediately on receipt of such approval and was applied to ensure that the 2014 KPIs, and therefore management activity, by the committee during 2014.
This policy will be operative throughout 2015. were appropriately aligned with the revised priorities of the business that arose as a result of the occurrence of these Although not required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups unforeseen material events at the beginning of the year.
For the Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations, the substantive avoidance of doubt, the committee is also of the opinion that these terms of the above Directors Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2 in-year variations to the 2014 bonus scheme did not make it less for ease of reference.
However, any details that were specific to 2014 or earlier demanding for any individual than when it was originally set.
years including, for example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 83 have, where applicable, Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets been updated to reflect the current position.
The policy as originally approved were achieved during 2014, and taking into account any pro-rating by shareholders can be found on pages 82 to 89 of the 2013 Annual Report and requirements, payments made under the annual bonus scheme Accounts, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
to individuals who served as executive directors during the year as a percentage of salary paid during the year were: 78.5% in the Purpose and role of the remuneration committee case of Simon Thomson: 79.15% for James Smith: and 76.75% for The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts.
Further details of the way in remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Groups PDMRs which these awards were determined are set out on pages 89 to 91 Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
Within the terms of this of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP director and PDMR: The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and share in 2011 came to an end during 2014.
However, the performance option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: conditions that required to be satisfied in order for these awards determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme: to vest were not achieved, with the result that no shares were determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and released to participants and the awards lapsed.
share option arrangements: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and Applying the policy for 2015 termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The ways in which the Companys remuneration policy will be applied in 2015 are set out in detail on page 97 in the Annual Report on The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels Remuneration.
In particular, salaries for the executive directors in post of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual at the beginning of the year were increased by 1.5% on 1 January 2015 remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees in committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group.
The Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive and their respective weightings have been reformulated for 2015 directors and PDMRs.
For example, the committee considers the standard in order to appropriately reflect the Companys strategic goals for increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors the period.
In addition, and in order to ensure consistency with the base salaries for the same period.
approach first adopted for the Chief Executive in 2014, the proportion of the CFOs bonus opportunity for the year that will be determined Cairns remuneration committee operates within written terms of reference by reference to these Group KPIs has been increased to 100% from agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the the 90% level that applied in 2014.
No material changes have been committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its made to the manner in which the LTIP will operate in 2015, although strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
the members of the Total Shareholder Return international oil and gas The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the comparator group will be slightly changed to take account of delistings Companys website.
and the need to ensure there are sufficient companies.
Shareholder support and feedback on Directors Consultation with relevant stakeholders The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions, Remuneration Report We welcome questions and feedback from all parties on both the it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business.
During 2014, Ian Tyler met with a selection of the Companys content and style of this report and hope that shareholders are supportive of the resolution to approve our Annual Report on larger institutional investors following his appointment as Chairman in order to listen to their views on a range of issues relating to the business, including Remuneration that is to be proposed at the AGM on 14 May 2015. its remuneration structures and practices.
Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management remuneration, M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety Remuneration Committee Chair of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including 9 March 2015 employee engagement surveys.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Overview of current remuneration policy Cairns current policy on executive directors remuneration, which became effective on 15 May 2014 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairns directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and retain Normally reviewed annually Annual increases will not None employees.
with changes taking effect on exceed the level of standard 1 January and or when an increase awarded to other Reflects individual experience individual changes position employees except that more and role.
significant increases may be awarded at the discretion Aim is to provide a competitive of the committee in base salary relative to the connection with: market although the committee an increase in the scope does not place undue emphasis and responsibility of the on benchmarking data and individuals role: or exercises its own judgement the individuals development in determining pay levels.
and performance in the role following appointment: or Decision influenced by: a re-alignment with role and experience: market rates.
average change in broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to Company cars up to a value of None retain employees.
a competitive package of 70,000 or, as an alternative, benefits.
For UK executives, an annual car allowance of up the major elements include to 8,771 may be provided.
a company car, permanent Other benefits will be in line health insurance, private with the market.
health insurance, death-inservice benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
78 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Bonuses are awarded by Maximum % of salary: 100%.
The measures and targets of annual KPIs and or other reference to performance applicable to the annual bonus objectives linked to the against specific targets scheme and the different Companys strategic goals.
measured over a single weightings ascribed to each financial year.
of them are set annually by the committee in order to Any amounts awarded to ensure they are relevant to an individual under this participants and take account arrangement are paid out in full of the most up-to-date shortly after the assessment of business plan and strategy.
the performance targets has been completed.
However, All, or a significant majority, annual bonuses may be subject of the bonus opportunity will to clawback where, in the period normally be determined by of three years from the end of reference to performance the relevant financial year, the against demanding Group committee becomes aware of KPIs such as: a material misstatement of the exploration and new Companys financial results or venture objectives: an error in the calculation of development and production performance targets.
Any remaining part of a directors bonus will normally be based on the achievement of personal objectives relevant to that individuals role within the business.
A payment scale for different levels of achievement against each KPI and or other objective is specified by the committee at the outset of each year these range from 0% for below-threshold performance up to 100% for full satisfaction of the relevant condition.
The committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Incentivises executive directors Cairn currently operates one Normal maximum % Vesting of all awards granted Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP to deliver superior levels of LTIP that was approved by of salary: 300%.
under the LTIP to date is long-term performance for shareholders in 2009. determined by comparing the the benefit of shareholders, Exceptional circumstances growth in Total Shareholder thereby aligning the interests Awards of conditional shares maximum % of salary: 400%.
Return TSR of Cairn over of the directors with those and or nil-cost options are a performance period of three of the Companys investors.
made annually with vesting years from grant with the dependent on achievement TSR of a comparator group of performance conditions of international oil and gas chosen by the committee.
companies that is selected by Performance is measured the committee prior to each over a three-year period.
grant, with 20% vesting at median, 100% at upper decile On vesting of an award, only and on a straight line sliding 50% of the shares to which the scale in between.
holder has become entitled are released become exercisable In order to encourage immediately, with the exceptional performance, remaining 50% normally the above condition provides being released becoming that, at upper decile levels, exercisable after a further a multiplier of up to 1.33 is period of one year.
applied if absolute TSR growth is between 50% and 100% The committee reviews the or more.
It also states that quantum of awards annually, no part of any award will vest taking into account factors unless the remuneration such as market rates and committee is satisfied that overall remuneration.
there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained Awards may be subject to improvement in the clawback where, in the period performance of the of three years from the end Company as a whole over of the relevant performance the performance period.
period, the committee becomes aware of a material Although the committees misstatement of the intention is that the above Companys financial results condition will be applied to or an error in the calculation LTIP awards granted in 2015, of performance conditions.
it may decide to impose different but equally challenging conditions in future years.
The committee will consult with major shareholders prior to making any such decision and will ensure that the vesting of at least 50% of all awards granted under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Companys TSR performance.
80 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Share Incentive Plan or SIP Encourages a broad range The Company established an Participation limits are those None of employees to become HM Revenue and Customs set by the UK tax authorities long-term shareholders.
approved share incentive plan from time to time.
It allows the are currently as follows: Company to provide eligible Partnership shares: up to employees, including the 1,800 per tax year can executive directors, with some be deducted from salary.
or all of the following benefits: Matching shares: up to partnership shares acquired two matching shares for using deductions from salary: every one partnership matching shares awarded to share purchased.
those employees who Free shares: up to 3,600 purchase partnership shares worth in each tax year.
on the basis of a ratio specified by the Company: and free shares.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
Company contributes 15% None Pension Rewards sustained The Company operates contribution.
a defined contribution of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pays group personal pension plan in the UK.
The scheme is them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
non-contributory and all UK permanent employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including executive directors.
Where an executive director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an executive directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Non-executive Helps recruit and retain Non-executive directors fees Companys Articles of None directors fees high-quality, experienced are considered annually and are Association place a limit on individuals.
set by the executive members the aggregate annual level of of the Board and the Chairman non-executive directors and Reflects time commitment taking into account a range of Chairmans fees currently and role.
relevant factors including: 900,000. market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees.
Chairmans fees Helps recruit and retain the The Chairmans fee is Companys Articles of None relevant individual.
considered annually and is Association place a limit on determined in light of market the aggregate annual level Reflects time commitment.
practice, the time commitment of non-executive directors and responsibilities associated and Chairmans fees with the role and other currently 900,000. relevant factors.
A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2015 is provided on page 97.
The following differences exist between the Companys above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees are eligible to participate in the Companys share option schemes, details of which are provided on pages 129 and 130.
Under the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP further details of which are provided on page 91 were selected by the remuneration committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted.
The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it.
As highlighted on page 95, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
Until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
Details of the extent to which the current executive directors had complied with this policy as at 31 December 2014 are set out on page 95.
Committee discretions The committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, LTIP and SIP according to their respective rules and the policy described in this Part 2 of the report.
The committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of an award and or a payment: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan: the determination of the annual bonus payment: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances: adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major corporate events : and the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events.
Legacy awards Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested unexercised as detailed on page 93 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest be exercised based on their original award terms.
82 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2015 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
3,379,776 3.5m 3.0m 2.5m 65% 2,197,565 2,019,745 2.0m 49% 1,312,993 65% 1.5m 49% 16% 19% 1.0m 654,253 424,868 16% 19% 0.5m 100% 32% 19% 100% 32% 19% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Chief Executive CFO Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: The minimum columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2015 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary at current rates, benefits using the annualised details set out in the 2014 single-figure table provided on page 87 and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario have been calculated by reference to the approximate average annual payouts vestings for all executive directors over the five years up to and including 2014, being a payout of 70% of salary under the annual bonus scheme and a 60% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary.
The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full i. e. annual bonus payment of 100% of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary.
For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Non-executive directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Directors Remuneration report continued Executive directors service contracts The current executive directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Salary, pension and benefits.
Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for director and dependants.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period 12 months notice by the director or by the Company.
Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Exit payment policy for executive directors Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
It is the remuneration committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice.
It was not included in the contract of the new CFO, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board: however, it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
Executive director board appointments with other companies The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
84 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2014 and explains how Cairns approved Directors Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 77 to 84 was implemented during that period.
It also summarises how that policy will be applied in 2015.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 14 May 2015.
The Companys auditors are required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014 Members of the remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during the year all of whom are independent non-executive directors were as follows: M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the committee : Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 15 May 2014 : Todd Hunt: Iain McLaren: and Ian Tyler.
The non-executive directors who served on the committee had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Biographical information on the committee members is shown on pages 58 and 59 and details of attendance at the committees meetings during 2014 are shown on page 67.
Internal assistance provided to the committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
Similarly, the CFO is not a member of the committee but may occasionally be invited to attend parts of its meetings to address specific matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the CFO is consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration.
During the year, the committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary.
External assistance provided to the committee As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: 1 Adviser Assistance provided to the committee during 2014 Fees for committee assistance in 2014 Other services provided to the Company during 2014 2 New Bridge Street Appointed by the committee to give 85,128 None periodic advice on various aspects of the directors remuneration packages.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects.
Appointed by the committee to None Slaughter and May 5,790 provide advice in relation to executive directors service contracts and other matters relating to their remuneration arrangements.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Carried out an independent verification Internal auditors of the Company Ernst & Young LLP n a of the Companys achievement against throughout the year.
performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIP and share option schemes.
However, they provided no advice to the committee.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry 30,715 General legal services to the Group out regular calculations in relation throughout the year.
to the LTIP performance conditions.
The bases for charging the fees set out in the above table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
New Bridge Street is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis.
"Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014 continued Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting s at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors Remuneration report and Directors Remuneration Policy: Number of Date of general votes ""For"" & Number of votes Total number of Number of votes 1 Description of resolution meeting ""Discretionary"" % of votes cast ""Against"" % of votes cast votes cast ""Withheld"" To approve the 2013 Directors Remuneration report 15 May 2014 384,329,738 99.30% 2,692,844 0.70% 387,022,582 1,031,354 To approve a Directors Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7,495,533 1.94% 387,008,013 1,045,923 Note: 1."
A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand the concerns of investors who did not support the resolutions.
Board changes during 2014 Leaving arrangements Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, and Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014.
Both individuals agreed to work a portion of their 12 month notice period, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014.
Following their retirement as directors, their annual salaries were reduced by 75,000 to 400,600 in the case of Dr Mike Watts and to 362,675 in the case of Jann Brown.
On the subsequent cessation of their employment, no additional payments were made in lieu of the salary or pension or other benefits to which these individuals would have been entitled had they worked the remainder of their notice periods.
Both individuals continued to participate in the annual bonus scheme for 2014 and details of their payments for the year under that arrangement which were pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment are set out on page 87.
Finally, the committee determined that, for a number of reasons including the particular circumstances surrounding both individuals departure and the significant contribution that they had made to the Group over a very considerable period, it was appropriate to treat Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown as good leavers for the purposes of the LTIP.
As a result, their outstanding awards did not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
The number of ordinary shares that vest will also be subject to a time pro-rating reduction to reflect their early cessation of employment.
Recruitment of James Smith James Smith, CFO, joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became an executive director on 15 May 2014.
Details of his remuneration package for the year which is consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are provided throughout this Annual Report on Remuneration.
As previously announced on 10 April 2014, the committee agreed that, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith would be granted an award of 200,000 in order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous employment due to his resignation to join Cairn.
50% of this award was paid in cash on commencement of employment with the remaining 50% being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released after 12 months continuous service with the Group.
The aggregate value of this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements.
Single total figure table for 2014 audited The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories.
Taxable benefits available to the executive directors during 2014 were a company car car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit, relocation expenses in the case of James Smith and, in the case of all of the executive directors who served during the year other than Dr Mike Watts, a gym and fitness allowance.
This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2013.
Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2014 are set out on page 89.
This column shows the face value at date of award of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period.
Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2014 are set out on pages 94 and 95.
James Smith became an employee of the Company on 3 March 2014 and was appointed as a director with effect from 15 May 2014.
His Award on recruitment was made up of: a cash award of 100,000 that was paid on the commencement of his employment with the Group: and a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares at a price of 181.5 pence per share, both by way of compensation for the loss of bonus from his previous employer.
Further information in relation to these matters is provided on page 86.
This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question after the operation of any applicable time pro-rating reduction.
Further information in relation to the annual bonus scheme for 2014 is provided on pages 89 to 91.
This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question.
Further details of the LTIPs operation during 2014 are provided on pages 91 to 94.
Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 but thereafter continued as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014.
The Regulations only require the above table to show remuneration paid to an individual at a time when he or she is a director of the Company.
However, it has been decided that, in order to be as transparent as possible, it should disclose all sums paid to each of James Smith, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts during 2014, including those paid at a time when they were employees of the Group but not directors.
For 2014, the salary figures for Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts include accrued holiday pay of 16,739 and 3,082 respectively that was paid on termination of employment.
Following the end of the year to 31 December 2014, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances.
The annual fee for each of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman for 2014 was 73,800.
In addition, a further annual fee of 10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
Ian Tyler, who had previously served as a non-executive director, was appointed Chairman on 15 May 2014.
The annual rate of fees payable to him in this new role was 160,000.
Both Sir Bill Gammell and Dr James Buckee retired as directors on 15 May 2014 and their respective fees for 2014 reflect the period from the start of the year to that date.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a 100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 100 Index over the last six years.
These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2014 but has also previously been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same six-year period.
Performance graph comparison of six-year cumulative TSR on an investment of 100 350 FTSE 250 300 FTSE 100 250 Cairn Energy 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 FTSE100 FTSE250 Cairn Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same six-year period Annual variable Long term incentive element award rates vesting rates for for Chief Executive Chief Executive as Total remuneration as % of max.
The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 87.
Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director with effect from that date.
Sir Bill Gammells total remuneration for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011.
However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year 770,000 and a cash bonus under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme 625,000.
Percentage annual change in Chief Executives remuneration elements compared to all Group employees The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executives 2014 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2013 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
% change % change in % change in in base salary taxable benefits annual bonus Chief Executive 2.5% 17.3% 27.7% All Group employees 3.0% 23.0% 27.9% 88 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Executive directors base salaries during 2014 Based on a review carried out in December 2013, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2014: 2014 Annual salary details Annual salary as at 1 January 2014 % increase Annual salary as at or on appointment, with effect from Job title 31 December 2013 if later 1 January 2014 Current directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive 525,000 538,125 2.5% James Smith CFO n a 350,000 n a Former directors 1 Jann Brown Managing Director & CFO 427,000 437,675 2.5% 1 Dr Mike Watts Deputy Chief Executive 464,000 475,600 2.5% Notes: 1.
Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors with effect from 15 May 2014 but subsequently remained as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014.
With effect from the date of cessation of directorship, their respective base salaries were reduced by 75,000 from the level noted in the above table.
The increases shown in the above table for each of Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2014.
Executive directors pension provision during 2014 audited As highlighted in the Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
On joining the Company, James Smith became a member of the Company scheme and, during the remainder of the year, received a Company contribution of 15% of his basic salary.
Both Simon Thomson and Jann Brown have an individual personal pension plan.
During 2014, Jann Brown received a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of her salary for the period that she was employed by the Group.
Simon Thomson also received a contribution of 15% of his salary into his personal plan for the first 3 months of the year, at which point the arrangement reached the applicable statutory limit.
Thereafter, he received an amount equivalent to 15% of his basic salary for the remaining portion of the year in the form of additional salary.
During the year, Dr Mike Watts received an amount equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary, as his pension arrangements are fully funded.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions additional salary that were paid to current and former executive directors during 2014 are set out in the pension column of the single total figure table on page 87.
Annual bonus 2014 structure and outcome audited During 2014, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors.
The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and certain PDMRs for 2014 was 100% of annual salary as at date of award.
For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and or Company performance measures.
Individual performance was measured through the Companys performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs.
The following paragraphs highlight, for each individual who served as an executive director during the year, the allocation of their bonus opportunity between Group KPI and individual performance conditions.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is also set out below.
2014 annual cash bonus scheme allocation between Group KPIs and individual performance conditions Allocation of maximum bonus opportunity as % of salary between: Group Individual KPIs performance Current directors Simon Thomson 100% 0% James Smith 90% 10% Former directors 1 Jann Brown 50% 50% 1 Dr Mike Watts 50% 50% Notes: 1.
In connection with the cessation of Jann Browns and Dr Mike Watts directorships on 15 May 2014, the committee determined that, in order to better reflect their revised roles in the business going forward, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Annual bonus 2014 structure and outcome audited continued 2014 annual cash bonus scheme Group KPI performance conditions and achievement levels Measures and weightings Performance achieved in 2014 Weighting as % of Bonus awarded as % allocated proportion of allocated proportion Performance measures Performance targets of maximum opportunity of maximum opportunity Summary of achievement 3 Exploration and appraisal success Discovery of commercial 35% 35% Two oil discoveries offshore 2 hydrocarbons Senegal with the FAN-1 and SNE-1 exploration wells: target volumes of commercial hydrocarbons exceeded Active portfolio optimisation Prospect generation: acquire value 15% 3% Seven new prospects matured accretive nearer term production out of a target of twelve: assets: secure partners in higher unsuccessful in achieving other cost frontier acreage two targets during 2014 3 Balance sheet Retain balance sheet strength: 15% 13.5% Debt financing concluded: minimum target liquid reserves divestment of 10% interest up to 2017 in Catcher to Dyas completed after year end Licence to operate Maintain licence to operate by 15% 13% Good performance against achieving targets for several leading almost all the leading targets, HSE performance indicators both leading and lagging indicators versus OGP industry standards Demonstrate operational excellence Timely and cost effective delivery 20% 14% Timely delivery of the majority of operated and non-operated asset of operated and non-operated projects: progress development asset projects, particularly projects on schedule and seismic projects: some delays within budget in exploration drilling due to rig inefficiency and non-productive time: Catcher and Kraken development projects on track Totals 100% 78.5% Notes: 1.
Further disclosures in relation to the above Group KPIs, including details of the way in which they were measured and assessed, are set out in the 2014 Key Performance Indicators KPIs section on pages 18 to 21.
This KPI was assessed on i evidence of commercial discoveries based on 2C resources: plus ii the net volumes versus the 50 mmboe target: and iii the finding efficiency expressed in US$ boe.
As explained in the Annual Statement set out on pages 76 and 77, the committee carried out an interim review in May 2014 of the above annual bonus scheme in order to determine whether any variations were required to reflect the exceptional circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after the original structure had been agreed.
The conclusion reached was that, as provided for by the Directors Remuneration Policy, the committee should vary the weightings ascribed to the Exploration and appraisal success and Balance sheet measures, with the former being moved from 45% to 35% and the latter being changed from 5% to 15%.
2014 annual cash bonus scheme individual performance conditions and achievement levels With the exception of the Chief Executive, each individual who served as an executive director during the year was given a number of different personal objectives tailored to their role and the needs of the business for the year.
In summary, these objectives related to various matters associated with the Indian tax issue and, in the case of James Smith, also included the negotiation of certain debt facilities, a strategic review of funding and identified actions connected to the management of the finance department.
The achievements against the above objectives were carefully considered by the committee following which it awarded each of the relevant individuals between 8.5% and 37.5% of salary, as set out on page 91.
90 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2014 annual cash bonus scheme actual payments awarded Award as % of salary based on achievement against performance measures relating to: Bonus actually paid i. e. after application Individual of any time proGroup KPIs performance rating adjustment Current directors Simon Thomson 78.5% 422,458 1 James Smith 70.65% 8.5% 229,969 Former directors 1 Jann Brown 39.25% 37.5% 244,158 1 Dr Mike Watts 39.25% 37.5% 267,444 Note: 1.
The 2014 bonus awarded to each of these individuals was pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the year that he she was employed by the Company.
The remuneration committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
Long-term incentives during 2014 Introduction During the year to 31 December 2014, the executive directors participated in the Companys LTIP, which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009.
The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
In the case of all awards under the LTIP including those granted during 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile i. e. top 10% 100% Between median and upper decile 20%100% on a straight line basis A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2014 is set out on page 94.
In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 11.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
In addition, and as noted in the Directors Remuneration Policy, awards granted in 2012 and later years are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics.
On any vesting of an award under the LTIP, only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term incentives during 2014 continued LTIP awards granted during 2014 audited On 19 March 2014, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to directors: Face value, 000 of.
% of shares over which award max.
of shares originally granted shares over which shares to vest if Vesting determined Basis of Share price at over which award that vest at award originally all performance by performance 3 4 Type of award award granted date of grant originally granted threshold granted measures met over Current directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 1.682 959,794 20% 1,614 2,147 3 years until 538,125 18 March 2017 James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 1.682 624,256 20% 1,050 1,396 350,000 Former directors 5 Jann Brown Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 1.682 780,633 20% 1,313 1,746 3 years until 437,675 18 March 2017 5 Dr Mike Watts Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 1.682 848,275 20% 1,427 1,898 475,600 Notes: 1.
Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2014 are provided on page 91.
No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 91 and multiplying the result by the share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
As explained on page 86 of this report, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts have been categorised as good leavers for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their awards will continue to vest at the same time and in substantially the same manner subject to time pro-rating as those held by all other participants.
LTIP awards vesting during the year audited On 16 June 2014, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 17 June 2011 to various participants including the executive directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions.
The results of this assessment can be summarised as follows: Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 20112014 % of award vested Relative TSR performance against a comparator 100% Cairns TSR over the period ranked below the 0% group of 17 companies with the opportunity for median company in the comparator group.
additional multiplier of up to 1.33 to be applied for upper decile performance.
Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 91.
At various points in the period 17 June 2011 to 16 June 2014, the committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
The calculations used to inform the committees determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information LTIP other awards held by executive directors during the year For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2014, set out below are details of the other entitlements under the plan that were held by current and former executive directors during the year: Face value, 000 of.
of shares award of shares over which originally shares over to vest if all Vesting determined award granted which award performance by performance Basis of Share price at originally that vest at originally measures over three years 2 3 4 Date of grant Type of award award granted date of grant granted threshold granted met until Current directors Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.887 513,335 20% 1,482 1,971 13 June 2015 494,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.784 565,732 20% 1,575 2,095 19 March 2016 525,000 James Smith Former directors 5 Jann Brown 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.887 432,282 20% 1,248 1,660 13 June 2015 416,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.784 460,129 20% 1,281 1,704 19 March 2016 427,000 5 Dr Mike Watts 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.887 469,691 20% 1,356 1,803 13 June 2015 452,000 20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 2.784 500,000 20% 1,392 1,851 19 March 2016 464,000 Notes: 1.
Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 91.
The awards shown in the above table that were granted in 2012 were originally made in the form of conditional shares.
However, to provide flexibility to participants, they have been converted into nil-cost options.
The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 91 and multiplying the result by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term incentives during 2014 continued Comparator group companies applicable to LTIP awards The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP that were outstanding during 2014.
Participation of executive directors in all-employee share schemes during 2014 Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP in April 2010.
The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: Partnership shares employees can authorise deductions of up to 1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased.
For the tax year 2014 2015, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2015 2016.
Free shares employees can be given up to 3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year.
On 8 April 2014, an award of free shares was made to employees, including to a number of the executive directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Details of executive directors SIP participation in 2014 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Partnership shares awarded on Matching shares awarded on Total SIP shares held Free shares at 31 December awarded on 2014 or date 8 April 2014 6 May 2014 5 December 2014 6 May 2014 5 December 2014 of cessation of Total SIP shares held at a price of at a price of at a price of at a price of at a price of employment, at 1 January 2014 1.676 per share 1.851 per share 1.673 per share 1.851 per share 1.673 per share if earlier Current directors Simon Thomson 6,761 1,789 810 1,620 10,980 1 James Smith 896 1,792 2,688 Former directors Jann Brown 6,761 1,789 8,550 Dr Mike Watts 6,761 1,789 8,550 Notes: 1.
Although James Smith was an employee of the Company on the date these free shares were awarded, he had not by that time satisfied the qualifying employment requirements for SIP participation.
The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors report on page 60.
Shareholding guidelines for directors audited The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 or date of cessation of directorship, if earlier.
It also highlights the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith.
However, James Smith does intend to build up his holding over time in accordance with the committees policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group.
Details of the Companys share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above.
Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified holding period of up to five years.
The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Share price used is the average share price over the period of 90 days ending on 1 January 2015.
This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2014 i. e. including those granted during the year.
Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 91.
As explained on page 86, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith was granted a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares, the vesting of which was subject to continued employment until the first anniversary of the date he joined the Group.
This condition was satisfied on 3 March 2015 and the relevant shares were released to him shortly thereafter.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Directors Remuneration report continued Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2014 In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans cannot exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee share schemes whether discretionary or otherwise cannot exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
For the purposes of operating both the above limits, the number of shares issued prior to 6 February 2012 in connection with options and awards is adjusted to reflect the share capital consolidation which became effective on that date.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
Board appointments with other companies during 2014 Certain of the Companys current executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated fees.
Details of the positions held during 2014 and the fees that were payable are as follows: Fees received for the year to 31 December 2014 or date of cessation of employment with the Position held Group, if earlier Current directors Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited 35,000 Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014.
Financial Year Financial Year 2013 2014 % change Employee costs US$m 41.5 51.3 23.6% 1 Distributions US$m 36.6 64.3 75.7% Note: 1.
For the purposes of the above table, distributions include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84 during the year to 31 December 2015.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2015 Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2015 this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2015 are as follows: Simon Thomson, Chief Executive 546,197: and James Smith, CFO 355,250.
Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2014.
In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up Annual bonus to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year.
All of the Chief Executives and CFOs 2015 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs described below with details of the weightings specified in brackets : exploration and appraisal success 25% : active portfolio optimisation 25% : retain balance sheet strength 20% : maintain licence to operate 15% : and operational excellence 15%.
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2015 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2015 bonus scheme will be included in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP It is intended that, during 2015, the executive directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300% of salary being the same level as was awarded in 2014.
The performance conditions that will determine the vesting of these grants will be those that applied to last years awards full details of which are set out on page 91 of the Annual Report on Remuneration except that the Total Shareholder Return comparator group will exclude Talisman Energy Inc, Salamander Energy PLC, JKX Oil & Gas PLC and Niko Resources Limited and include Kosmos Energy Limited, Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC, Dragon Oil PLC and Det Norske Olj eselskap ASA.
SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors fees The annual non-executive director fee for 2015 has been increased from 73,800 to 74,900.
The additional annual fee for chairing the audit and or remuneration committees is unchanged at 10,000.
The annual Chairmans fee for 2015 has been retained at 160,000.
Chairmans fees By order of the Board M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the remuneration committee 9 March 2015 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97
