In determining pay levels for the employees as a whole, the Group annually considers externally provided benchmark levels for comparable jobs as well as individual development and performance.
The general level of increase resulting from this review informs the Committees deliberations on appropriate pay levels for the executive directors, together with external data specific to their roles which is used to ensure that the levels of remuneration are appropriate.
The Committee does not formally consult employees on executive remuneration.
However, they have the opportunity to make comments on any aspect of the Companys activities through employee forums and surveys and their comments are considered by the Committee.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting shortly following the AGM.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Company regularly engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies and report their views back to the Committee, who take them into account when formulating any material changes to the remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters relating to remuneration discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as the payment of pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes that have or will have been disclosed to shareholders in remuneration reports before the Policy took effect.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
B3.4 APPROvAl OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
This Directors Remuneration Report, section B3 of the Annual Report and Accounts, including both the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Policy Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors AlAN k FlETCHER Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 November 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
