98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Summary of Directors remuneration policy The Companys Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This Policy came into effect following the AGM on 15 May 2014 and will apply for a period of three years unless shareholders approve a revised Policy within that time.
The pages that follow present a summary of the Remuneration Policy.
The complete Policy can be found on our website at www.
co. uk site-services   Remuneration for executive directors Fixed pay Element Operation Opportunity Salary The Committee reviews salaries annually, considering Annual salary increases for executive factors such as: directors will normally be in line with the increases for other employees across our Salary increases for all employees: business units.
However, there is no The performance and experience of the executive: prescribed maximum annual increase.
Group or business unit financial performance: Internal relativities: and Economic factors such as inflation.
Market data is also reviewed so that salaries remain a competitive range relative to each executive directors local market.
Benefits Executive directors are offered benefits which reflect their The maximum paid will be the cost to the individual circumstances and are competitive within their Company of providing benefits.
The cost of local market, including: benefits may vary from year to year but the Committee is mindful of achieving the best Health and wellness benefits: value from providers.
Protection and security benefits: Transport benefits: Family and education benefits: All employee share plans and savings plans: and Relocation and expatriate benefits.
Provision for Current executives have the option to: Executive directors are entitled to receive an income in pension contributions or a cash supplement Receive payments into a defined contribution scheme: retirement or combination of the two up to a total of and or 25 per cent of base salary.
Take a cash supplement in lieu of contributions.
In addition, the Chief Executive, PCA receives Jacksons Defined Contribution Retirement Plan has a statutory contributions into the Mandatory guaranteed element 6 per cent of pensionable salary Provident Fund.
and additional contributions up to a further 6 per cent of pensionable salary based on the profitability of JNL.
Directors remuneration report Summary of Directors remuneration policy Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 99 Variable pay Element Operation Opportunity Annual bonus Currently all executive directors participate in the Annual The Chief Executive, M&G has a bonus Incentive Plan AIP.
opportunity of the lower of six times salary or 0.75 per cent of M&Gs IFRS profit.
For other AIP awards for all executive directors are subject to the executive directors, the maximum AIP achievement of financial and personal objectives.
Business unit opportunity is up to 200 per cent of salary.
chief executives either have measures of their business units Annual awards are disclosed in the relevant financial performance in the AIP or they may participate in a Annual Report on Remuneration.
business unit specific bonus plan.
For example, the President and CEO, JNL currently participates in the Jackson Senior In addition to the AIP, the President & CEO, Management Bonus Pool as well as in the AIP.
JNL receives a 10 per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
The financial measures used for the annual bonus will typically include profit, cash and capital adequacy.
Jacksons profitability and other key financial measures determine the value of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
In specific circumstances, the Committee also has the power to recover all or part of bonuses and share awards for a period after they are awarded to executives.
These clawback powers apply to the cash and deferred elements of 2015 and subsequent bonuses and to long-term incentive awards made on or after 1 January 2015.
Deferred bonus Executive directors are required to defer a percentage The maximum vesting under this arrangement shares currently 40 per cent of their total annual bonus into Prudential is 100 per cent of the original deferral plus shares for three years.
The release of awards is not subject to accrued dividend shares.
The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding deferred award in specific circumstances.
From 2015 and future awards, the Committee also has the power to recover all, or a portion of, amounts already paid in specific circumstances and within a defined timeframe clawback.
Prudential Long Currently all executive directors participate in the Prudential The value of shares awarded under the PLTIP Term Incentive Long Term Incentive Plan PLTIP.
The PLTIP has a three-year in any given financial year may not exceed Plan PLTIP performance period.
Vesting of outstanding awards is 550 per cent of the executives annual dependent on: basic salary.
Relative TSR 50 per cent of award : and Awards made in a particular year are usually significantly below this limit and are disclosed Group IFRS profit 50 per cent of award : or in the relevant Annual Report on Business unit IFRS profit 50 per cent of award.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders before increasing The performance measures attached to each award are award levels during the life of this Policy.
dependent on the role of the executive and will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Chief The maximum vesting under the PLTIP is Executive, M&Gs PLTIP awards are subject only to the TSR 100 per cent of the original share award plus performance condition as the IFRS profit of M&G is a accrued dividend shares.
performance condition under the M&G Executive LTIP.
The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding award in specific circumstances.
M&G Executive The Chief Executive, M&G currently receives awards under this The Chief Executive, M&G receives an award LTIP plan.
He receives an annual award of phantom shares each with with an initial value of 300 per cent of salary a notional starting share price of 1.
The phantom share price at under this plan.
Maximum vesting is vesting is currently determined by M&Gs profitability with 100 per cent of the number of phantom shares profit and investment performance over the three-year originally awarded.
Awards are settled in cash.
100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report Summary of Directors remuneration policy continued Share ownership guidelines Operation The guidelines for share ownership were increased to the following levels in 2013: 350 per cent of salary for the Group Chief Executive: and 200 per cent of salary for other executive directors.
Executives have five years from the implementation of these increased guidelines or from the date of their appointment, if later to build this level of ownership.
The full Policy sets out the Committees powers in respect of executive directors joining or leaving the Board, where a change in performance conditions is appropriate or in the case of corporate transactions such as a takeover, merger or rights issue.
The Policy also describes legacy long-term incentive plans under which some executive directors continue to hold awards.
Remuneration for non-executive directors and the Chairman Non-executive directors Fees Benefits Share Ownership Guidelines All non-executive directors receive a basic fee for their Travel and expenses for non-executive It is expected that non-executive duties as a Board member.
Additional fees are paid for directors are incurred in the normal directors will hold shares with a added responsibilities such as chairmanship and course of business, for example in relation value equivalent to one times the membership of committees or acting as the Senior to attendance at Board and Committee annual basic fee excluding Independent Director.
Fees are paid to nonmeetings.
The costs associated with these additional fees for chairmanship executives in cash.
Fees are reviewed annually by the are all met by the Company.
and membership of any Board with any changes effective from 1 July.
If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is Non-executive directors are materially greater than usual, the Company may expected to attain this level of determine that the provision of additional fees is fair share ownership within three and reasonable.
Non-executive Chairman Fees Benefits Share Ownership Guidelines The Chairman receives an annual fee for the The Chairman may be offered benefits The Chairman has a share performance of their role.
On appointment, the fee including: ownership guideline of one times may be fixed for a specified period of time.
Fees will their annual fee and is expected Health and wellness benefits: otherwise be reviewed annually with any changes to attain this level of share effective from 1 July.
Protection and security benefits: ownership within five years of the date of his appointment.
The Chairman is not eligible to participate in annual Transport benefits: and bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
Relocation and expatriate benefits where appropriate.
The Chairman is not eligible to receive a pension allowance or to participate in the Groups employee pension schemes.
In setting the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee considers a range of factors including: Conditions elsewhere in Group Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance.
Each business units salary increase budget is set with reference to local market conditions.
The Remuneration Committee considers salary increase budgets in each business unit when determining the salaries of executive directors.
Prudential does not consult with employees when setting the directors remuneration policy: Prudential is a global organisation with employees, and agents in multiple business units and geographies.
As such, there are practical challenges associated with consulting with employees directly on this matter.
As many employees are also shareholders, they will be able to participate in the binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Company undertake regular consultation with key institutional investors on the remuneration policy and implementation.
This engagement is led by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is an integral part of the Companys investor relations programme.
The Committee is grateful to shareholders for their feedback which is provided and takes this into account when determining executive remuneration.
