Capita plc 92 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 93 Directors remuneration report Annual Statement from the In order to achieve this, our Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chair Policy for Executive Directors is to set fixed pay base salary plus benefits around the Dear Shareholder, market lower quartile and to offer the potential for competitive levels of total I am pleased to present my first pay if stretching performance targets remuneration report as Chair of the attached to incentive awards are met.
Our policy is that performance-related pay should form a significant part of Executive In last years remuneration report, the Directors remuneration packages with an Committee set out its Remuneration appropriate balance between short and Carolyn Fairbairn Policy relating to Executive and Nonlonger term targets linked to delivery of Chair, Remuneration Committee Executive Directors.
That Remuneration the Groups business plan.
Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will remain effective I have set out below the key activities during 2015.
Accordingly, there will be no undertaken by the Remuneration shareholder vote on the Remuneration Committee during the past year as we Policy at this years AGM.
have applied the principles outlined above.
There will be an advisory vote at the AGM Retirement of Directors on the annual report on remuneration as As a Committee, we recognise our set out on pages 92 to 108.
This section of responsibility to ensure that payments the remuneration report provides details to departing Directors are determined of how the Policy will be operated during fairly both for shareholders and for the 2015 and also provides details of the departing individuals.
remuneration earned by Directors in the year ended 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in last years remuneration report, Paul Pindar received no payments Summary of remuneration policy following his retirement on 28 February and strategy 2014 and his outstanding share awards The remuneration strategy of Capita is were pro rata reduced for the time period to provide a pay package that: post-retirement and remained subject to the existing performance conditions.
attracts, motivates and retains the best employees As explained in our announcement in encourages and is supportive of a November 2014, a similar arrangement high performance culture will be applied for Gordon Hurst.
He rewards the fulfilment of the overall will receive no payments following his business plan of the Group retirement on 30 September 2015 and promotes the long term success of his outstanding share awards will be pro the Group rata reduced for the time period postretirement and remain subject to the aligns management with the existing performance conditions.
Gordon interests of our shareholders and other Hurst steps down as a Board Director on external stakeholders 28 February 2015 and will continue to be is consistent with our risk policies employed until 30 September 2015. and systems.
Capita plc 93 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 92 Capita plc 93 Directors remuneration report Annual Statement from the In order to achieve this, our Remuneration Malus and clawback provisions This strong performance is reflected in Base salaries Remuneration Committee Chair Policy for Executive Directors is to set fixed In our existing Remuneration Policy, the maximum annual bonus awarded Salaries of the established Executive pay base salary plus benefits around the the Remuneration Committee has the to the Executive Directors in respect of Directors were re-aligned with our Dear Shareholder, market lower quartile and to offer the ability to withhold Executive Directors performance in 2014.
Further details intended lower market salary positioning potential for competitive levels of total incentive payments via malus provisions relating to the bonus are set out on in 2014.
Salaries for these roles have, I am pleased to present my first pay if stretching performance targets in the event of overpayments arising page 104.
With the exception of Gordon therefore, been increased by 2.4% for 2015 remuneration report as Chair of the attached to incentive awards are met.
from material abnormal write offs of an Hurst who is retiring, all of the Executive in line with the general UK workforce.
Our policy is that performance-related pay exceptional basis not included in normal Directors will be deferring 50% of their should form a significant part of Executive underlying profit before tax and EPS.
bonus into shares for three years.
As explained in last years remuneration In last years remuneration report, the Directors remuneration packages with an report, salaries of those Directors Committee set out its Remuneration appropriate balance between short and Following the publication of the revised Our strong performance is also reflected who were relatively newly appointed Carolyn Fairbairn Policy relating to Executive and Nonlonger term targets linked to delivery of UK Corporate Governance Code, the in the performance of the 2012 long term to their role Andy Parker as CEO and Chair, Remuneration Committee Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee is strengthening share awards.
These awards were subject Dawn Marriott-Sims as COO were set Policy was approved by shareholders at its flexibility in this area in line with to an EPS growth target range of RPI 4% deliberately below the market lower the 2014 AGM and will remain effective I have set out below the key activities best practice: per annum 20% vesting to 12% per quartile by the Committee on the during 2015.
Accordingly, there will be no undertaken by the Remuneration annum for Board members and RPI 4% understanding that, subject to their Clawback provisions have been added shareholder vote on the Remuneration Committee during the past year as we per annum 50% vesting to 12% per performance in role, their salaries would to all of the Executive Directors incentive Policy at this years AGM.
annum for other participants over the move closer to the market lower quartile plans to complement the existing three year period to 31 December 2014. in future years.
This would permit the There will be an advisory vote at the AGM Retirement of Directors Our actual EPS growth over this period Remuneration Committee to clawback on the annual report on remuneration as As a Committee, we recognise our was 11.18% per annum which will result in The Board has been pleased by the payments for up to three years after the set out on pages 92 to 108.
This section of responsibility to ensure that payments the vesting of 67.2% of awards for Board performance of both Andy Parker and determination of the annual bonus and the remuneration report provides details to departing Directors are determined members and 79.5% of awards for other Dawn Marriott-Sims and, therefore, up to the fifth anniversary of the grant of how the Policy will be operated during fairly both for shareholders and for the participants.
The value of these awards is Dawn Marriott-Sims salary has been of LTIP awards 2015 and also provides details of the departing individuals.
reflected in the single figure remuneration increased to 348,000, which brings her The potential circumstances in remuneration earned by Directors in the table on page 103. salary in line with the more established which malus or clawback provisions year ended 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in last years remuneration Directors and Andy Parkers salary has can be applied will be extended to report, Paul Pindar received no payments Implementation of Policy for 2015 been increased to 550,000.
As illustrated include a material restatement of the Summary of remuneration policy following his retirement on 28 February A detailed review of Executive Directors in the chart below, Andy Parkers salary Groups financial results, if an individual and strategy 2014 and his outstanding share awards remuneration was undertaken during remains one of the lowest amongst deliberately misleads relevant parties The remuneration strategy of Capita is were pro rata reduced for the time period 2013 and revised arrangements resulting CEOs of similar sized FTSE companies regarding financial performance or if their to provide a pay package that: post-retirement and remained subject to from that review applied for the first time and significantly below the market lower actions cause reputational damage or the existing performance conditions.
No significant changes to the quartile.
attracts, motivates and retains the amount to serious misconduct or conduct pay structure will apply in 2015. best employees which causes significant financial loss.
As explained in our announcement in encourages and is supportive of a November 2014, a similar arrangement high performance culture Performance and reward in 2014 will be applied for Gordon Hurst.
He 2014 was a year of strong sales, rewards the fulfilment of the overall will receive no payments following his operational and financial performance.
business plan of the Group retirement on 30 September 2015 and The Group financial results illustrate promotes the long term success of his outstanding share awards will be pro our ability to deliver strong sustainable the Group rata reduced for the time period postgrowth.
During the year, the Group retirement and remain subject to the CEO salaries aligns management with the successfully made 17 acquisitions.
Gordon interests of our shareholders and other Reporting record profits for the 26th FTSE companies 31-100 Hurst steps down as a Board Director on external stakeholders successive year demonstrates the 28 February 2015 and will continue to be is consistent with our risk policies strength of our business model, the employed until 30 September 2015.
strong and effective leadership of our senior management team and 1,000,000 Capita the talents of our people.
2015 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 Companies based on average market capitalisation in 3 months to 1 January 2015.
