Capita plc 92 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 93 Directors remuneration report Annual Statement from the In order to achieve this, our Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chair Policy for Executive Directors is to set fixed pay base salary plus benefits around the Dear Shareholder, market lower quartile and to offer the potential for competitive levels of total I am pleased to present my first pay if stretching performance targets remuneration report as Chair of the attached to incentive awards are met.
Our policy is that performance-related pay should form a significant part of Executive In last years remuneration report, the Directors remuneration packages with an Committee set out its Remuneration appropriate balance between short and Carolyn Fairbairn Policy relating to Executive and Nonlonger term targets linked to delivery of Chair, Remuneration Committee Executive Directors.
That Remuneration the Groups business plan.
Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will remain effective I have set out below the key activities during 2015.
Accordingly, there will be no undertaken by the Remuneration shareholder vote on the Remuneration Committee during the past year as we Policy at this years AGM.
have applied the principles outlined above.
There will be an advisory vote at the AGM Retirement of Directors on the annual report on remuneration as As a Committee, we recognise our set out on pages 92 to 108.
This section of responsibility to ensure that payments the remuneration report provides details to departing Directors are determined of how the Policy will be operated during fairly both for shareholders and for the 2015 and also provides details of the departing individuals.
remuneration earned by Directors in the year ended 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in last years remuneration report, Paul Pindar received no payments Summary of remuneration policy following his retirement on 28 February and strategy 2014 and his outstanding share awards The remuneration strategy of Capita is were pro rata reduced for the time period to provide a pay package that: post-retirement and remained subject to the existing performance conditions.
attracts, motivates and retains the best employees As explained in our announcement in encourages and is supportive of a November 2014, a similar arrangement high performance culture will be applied for Gordon Hurst.
He rewards the fulfilment of the overall will receive no payments following his business plan of the Group retirement on 30 September 2015 and promotes the long term success of his outstanding share awards will be pro the Group rata reduced for the time period postretirement and remain subject to the aligns management with the existing performance conditions.
Gordon interests of our shareholders and other Hurst steps down as a Board Director on external stakeholders 28 February 2015 and will continue to be is consistent with our risk policies employed until 30 September 2015. and systems.
