S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 67 67 Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee determined that 95% of the maximum annual bonus should be payable for 2014, reflecting the strong financial results for 2014 and strong progress against other strategic objectives set by the Committee at the start of the year, which are fully explained in the report.
Fifty percent of the bonus is deferred into shares for three years.
Remuneration for 2015 The Remuneration Committee considered the overall remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, in accordance with the policy which was agreed with shareholders last year.
As was noted in last years report, Performance Share Plan PSP grants in 2015 will be increased from the 2014 award levels: 200% of base salary face value at maximum vesting will be granted to the Chief Executive compared to 190% last year, and 190% of base salary will be granted to each of the other Chairman of the Executive Directors compared to 175% last year.
Remuneration In addition, the holding period requirement for PSP award, has now been increased to two years post vesting five years from grant of the award for awards granted from 2015.
Committee Roger Yates Taking into account these overall arrangements, the base salaries of the Executive Directors are not being increased in 2015.
The On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Committee continues to monitor the complexity of the Remuneration Report for 2014. responsibilities undertaken, the remuneration of staff generally, an element of market comparison and inflation trends from year The report is split into two parts.
The Directors Remuneration to year.
The Committee may apply salary increases at subsequent Policy, which was approved by the shareholders at the Annual review dates as a result of analysis of these factors.
General Meeting AGM in 2014, is included for information.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the policy remains appropriate and should continue to operate for 2015 with no Remuneration Codes changes proposed.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out As a result of regulatory changes and the introduction of revised the remuneration paid to the Executive and Non-executive administration arrangements at St. Jamess Place, the Group is Directors in respect of 2014, together with details of how the required to comply with the provisions of the FCA Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2015.
Codes for the first time in 2015.
The Committee has assessed the requirements of the Remuneration Codes, including the provisions that allow Codes to be applied in a proportionate way, Remuneration is Linked to the Corporate Strategy to ensure that the remuneration policy and the Groups As we reported last year, the Remuneration Committee the administrative and internal processes are in compliance with the Committee carried out a thorough review in 2013, and agreed a requirements.
No changes to the shareholder approved Directors Directors Remuneration Policy that supports the Groups business Remuneration Policy are required as a result of this review.
The major part of remuneration for Executives is , including both annual and longer-term measures aligned to a balanced set of business objectives.
There is Summary substantial deferral of variable remuneration into shares, and The Groups remuneration policy supports our corporate objectives requirements for Executives to hold company shares, through and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors reflects minimum shareholding thresholds and a post-vesting sale the strong performance of the Company and management.
restriction on Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
Following extensive consultation and some refinement to take account of I hope that you will support the remuneration resolution to be shareholder feedback, the Directors Remuneration Policy was proposed at the next AGM.
If in the meantime you have any questions approved at the 2014 AGM by 99.85% of shareholders voting.
regarding our remuneration policy then my colleagues and I on the Remuneration Committee will be pleased to address them.
Corporate Performance and Remuneration for 2014 As reported in this Annual Report, 2014 has been another year of strong performance and our Executives remuneration for 2014 Roger Yates reflects this.
Based on the three-year performance to the end of 2014, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 96.37% of the Executive Directors PSP awards granted in 2012 will 24 February 2015 vest in March 2015, as a result of relative total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth near to or above the upper end of the performance range set by the Committee.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 68 68 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 Directors Remuneration Report This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
There is no requirement for shareholders to vote on the policy at the 2015 AGM unless changes to the policy are proposed, and the Committee does not intend making any changes at this time.
This policy will be effective until the AGM in 2017, unless changes are proposed and shareholders approve a new policy prior to that date.
The policy is set out below for information only: the chart, showing remuneration scenarios on page 75 has been updated to reflect proposed 2015 remuneration levels and minor changes to the text of the policy have been made to reflect the fact that the policy has been approved by shareholders and that the policy is now being implemented in 2015 and not 2014.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into consideration a number of different factors: the Committee applies the principles set out in Schedule A of the UK Corporate Governance Code and also takes into account best practice guidance issued by the major UK institutional investor bodies, the FCA including the provisions of any applicable Remuneration Codes and other relevant organisations: the Committee has overall responsibility for the remuneration policies and structures of the Group as a whole and it reviews remuneration policy on a firm-wide basis.
When the Committee determines and reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors it considers and compares it against the pay, policy and employment conditions of the Group to ensure that it is comfortable that there is alignment between the two: and the Committee considers the external market in which the Group operates and uses comparator remuneration data from time to time to inform its decisions.
However, the Committee recognises that such data should be used as a guide only recognising that data can be volatile and that there is often a need to phase-in changes over a period of time.
The Committees overall policy, having had due regard to the factors above, is for a substantial proportion of total remuneration to be based on variable pay.
This is achieved by setting base pay and benefits up to mid-market levels, with annual bonus and long term incentive opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
In this way, the Committee facilitates alignment between the interests of shareholders and the total remuneration paid to the Executive Directors.
Historically, the levels of variable pay paid to the Executives have varied considerably, reflecting the performance of the Group in the relevant year.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made if they are consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
Engagement with Shareholders The Committees policy is to engage with and seek the views of its major investors and investor representative bodies on any proposed major changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee will also engage on those aspects of implementation of that policy that it considers appropriate.
Any views expressed by shareholders at general meetings of the Company or otherwise will be considered by the Committee as part of any review of remuneration policy, or sooner if appropriate.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The remuneration policy is designed to support and encourage the delivery of the Groups short-term and long-term business objectives.
The following table summarises each element of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element operates and how each part links to corporate strategy.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 69 69 Salary Purpose and link to strategy including choice of To provide the core reward for the role.
performance metrics Sufficient level to recruit and retain individuals of the necessary calibre, taking into account the skills, experience, demands and complexity of the role.
Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing 1 March.
Influenced by: Role, experience and performance of the individual: Company performance: External economic conditions: Average change in broader workforce salary: Periodic benchmarking for each role against similar UK listed companies: and Overall policy, having regard to the factors noted, is normally to target salaries up to the mid market level.
Maximum opportunity Salary increases in percentage terms will normally be linked to the average of the workforce generally other than in exceptional circumstances such as where the increase may be higher for a significant change in responsibility, experience or increase in role or the size or complexity of the Group where increases may be phased.
Where new joiners or recent promotees have been given a starting salary below mid-market level, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage terms may be awarded over the following few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors from 1 March 2015 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance metrics The Committee considers all of the factors described in this table when deciding how the salary policy operates.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 70 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy including choice of Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business plan targets and performance metrics delivery of strategic objectives.
Deferred element aids retention, encourages long-term shareholding, discourages excessive risk taking and aligns with shareholder interests.
Performance metrics reflect the key performance drivers of the annual business plan, achievement of which will reflect performance in line with the Groups strategy.
Operation Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually and set in line with the annual business plan.
Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after the year end, based on performance against the targets set.
50% of any bonus payable is paid in cash with the remaining 50% deferred into SJP shares, the vesting of which is normally subject to a three year continuous service requirement.
Dividends that accrue on the deferred shares are paid to the Executive Directors during the three-year deferral period.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to scale back payments under the strategic part of the annual bonus if it deems them to be inappropriate in the context of the overall financial results of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee has the over-riding discretion to adjust the bonus outcome up or down subject to the overall 150% maximum to take account of factors such as an exceptional positive or negative event.
Annual bonus payments including deferred amounts are subject to claw-back if there is found to have been a material mis-statement, error or misconduct following the payment of the bonus.
Maximum opportunity 150% of base salary.
Performance metrics Performance measured over one year.
At least half the bonus is based on financial measures reflecting the key priorities of the business for the relevant year.
Up to half of the annual bonus can be based on the achievement of key strategic objectives set at the start of the year.
Actual measures and weightings may change from year to year to reflect the business priorities at that time.
Details of performance criteria set for the year under review and performance against them is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
20% of the annual bonus vests for threshold performance.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 71 71 Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy including choice of Incentivises the Directors to achieve superior long term shareholder returns.
performance metrics Provides long term retention.
Focuses the Executives on longer term corporate performance and performance objectives.
A mix of three performance conditions provides an appropriate balance of targets that both incentivise the Executives to achieve stretching long-term financial performance while also keeping their interests aligned to those of shareholders.
Operation Awards are granted annually with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over a period of three financial years.
Metrics and targets are set in line with the business plan and are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate as well as the weighting between them.
Awards in 2015 and beyond will be made under the performance share plan, approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014, and will have a post vesting holding period of two years net of tax.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on awards made between the date of grant and the end of the two year post vesting holding period.
These dividend equivalents will be released only to the extent that awards vest.
Subject to claw-back in the event of a material misstatement, error or misconduct allowing summary dismissal.
Maximum opportunity The maximum annual award under the plan rules is 250% of salary as at date of grant although the Committee will not increase above the 2015 award levels without prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The PSP award levels for 2014 as in 2013 will be 190% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the other Executive Directors value of shares at date of award.
The Committee intends to increase the PSP award levels for 2015 to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 190% of salary for the other Executive Directors value of shares at date of award.
Performance metrics The vesting of awards is dependent on the achievement of three equally weighted performance measures as set out below.
The Committee may choose alternative measures and weightings between them if it deems it appropriate taking into account the strategic objectives of the Company.
The vesting of at least one-third of the PSP award will however be determined by a relative TSR target.
The performance targets for the 2015 PSP awards will be based on: EPS growth based on EEV adjusted profit: EPS growth as above but excluding the impact of the EEV unwind of the discount rate effectively excluding the impact of stock market movements on earnings : and relative TSR performance.
For each performance condition, a threshold and stretch level of performance is set.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant element vests.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 72 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Pension Purpose and link to strategy including choice of Helps recruit and retain Executives.
performance metrics Provides a discrete element of the package to contribute to post-retirement lifestyle.
Operation Defined contribution pension scheme.
20% of salary is paid into the Group personal pension scheme for the Executive or an equivalent cash amount via non-pensionable salary supplement if the Executive is affected by the pension cap.
Maximum opportunity 20% of base salary.
Performance metrics N A Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy including choice of Operate competitive benefits to help recruit, retain and support the well-being performance metrics of employees.
Operation Including but not limited to: Company car or salary supplement in lieu, private medical insurance, life, critical illness and death in service cover, relocation assistance where necessary and the use of a driver for business purposes.
Participation in the Groups all employee SIP and SAYE schemes.
Maximum opportunity Benefit costs are monitored and controlled and represent a small element of total remuneration costs.
Performance metrics N A Non-executive Directors Fees To attract high quality, experienced Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is paid an all-encompassing annual fee, which is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
All Non-executive Directors receive a basic annual fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees being paid in respect of Board Committees and other responsibilities, with fee levels reviewed periodically by the Board.
They may also be paid additional fees calculated at an appropriate day rate in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, for instance in response to corporate developments.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
Reviews take into account market data for similar non-executive roles in other companies of a similar size and or business to St. Jamess Place as well as the time commitment of its Non-executive Directors.
The Companys policy is to pay up to the mid-market level based on similar time commitments of chairman and non-executives in similar sized companies.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 73 73 The performance measures and targets that are set for the In the case of stated good leaver reasons or otherwise, whether Executive Directors annual bonus and PSP awards are carefully a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and selected to align with the Companys strategic and key whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of performance indicators.
leaving or at the original vesting date s as relevant: and How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain For the annual bonus financial and strategic measures are circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring reviewed and selected by the Committee annually.
The measures or for special dividends.
selected and weighting between them may vary annually depending on the key priorities of the business for the year ahead.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to Robust and demanding targets will be set annually taking into adjust targets and or set different measures and alter weightings account the economic environment, market expectations and the for the annual bonus plan and the PSP if events happen that cause Companys budget and business plan for the year ahead.
EEV it to determine that the original targets or conditions are no operating profit is used to assess financial performance as this longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the measure reflects a number of key metrics including new business, targets or conditions achieve their original purpose and are not persistency, retention of funds under management and cost materially less difficult to satisfy.
The balance is determined based on strategic measures set annually on a balanced scorecard basis.
The use of discretion would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be The Company has used a comparative TSR measure and EPS subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
growth targets for the PSP for a number of years in line with the Groups strategy of delivering profitable growth and superior Awards made prior to the Effective Date returns to its shareholders.
The Committee will continue to review For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy Report, the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments targets prior to each PSP award being made and will set robust and entered into with current or former Directors that have been stretching measures for any alternative measures used.
For the EPS disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
This growth measure stretching targets will be set annually taking into includes all historic awards that were granted under any current account the economic environment, market expectations and the or previous share schemes operated by the Company but remain Companys budget and business plan at that time.
For the outstanding detailed on pages 84 and 85 of this Report and comparative TSR measure the Committees policy is to set which will remain eligible to vest based on their original award threshold vesting for median performance rising to full vesting for terms.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out upper quartile performance.
The Committee will assess annually in the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
the appropriateness of the TSR comparator group.
Approach to Remuneration for Recruitment No performance targets are set for the SAYE and SIP awards as andPromotions these form part of all employee arrangements designed to The Committee would aim to set a new Executive Directors encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in remuneration package in line with the Companys approved policy the Company.
at the time of appointment.
The Committee will take into account, in arriving at a total package and in considering the Shareholding Guidelines quantum for each element of the package, the skills and Executives are required to build and maintain a shareholding experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of equivalent to 150% of base salary.
Until the threshold is reached, that experience as well as the importance of securing the best 50% of vested shares from the PSP and other share awards less tax candidate.
For new appointments, base salary and total liability must be retained.
Executives are also required to hold a remuneration may be set initially at below normal market rates on further 50% of salary in shares and or in one or more SJP funds, the basis that it may be increased once expertise and performance thus providing further alignment with shareholders and clients.
has been proven and sustained.
Annual Bonus Plan and Share Plan Policy Annual bonus potential will not exceed 150% of salary and The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, deferred bonus long-term incentives will not exceed 250% of salary not plan, PSP and all-employee share plans according to the rules of each including any arrangements to replace forfeited deferred pay.
respective plan and consistent with normal market practice and the Participation in the annual bonus plan and Performance Share Listing Rules, where relevant.
The Committee will retain flexibility Plan will normally be pro-rated for the year of joining and in a number of areas regarding the operation and administration of different performance measures may be set from those applying to these plans, including but not limited to the following: the other Directors, if it is appropriate to do so to reflect the Who participates in the plans: individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they When to make awards and payments: joined the Board.
How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest: How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 74 74 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 The Committee may make additional cash and or share-based Remuneration Policy across the Group awards as it deems appropriate and if the circumstances so demand The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed to take account of deferred pay forfeited by an executive on leaving with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a a previous employer.
Awards to replace deferred pay forfeited whole and the Committee aims, where appropriate, for there to would, where possible, reflect the nature of awards forfeited in be a consistent approach applied.
For instance, the suite of terms of delivery mechanism cash or shares, time horizons, benefits in kind is generally consistent other than in relation to attributed expected value and performance conditions.
Other quantum and all employees participate in annual bonus plans.
All payments may be made in relation to relocation expenses and other employees, including the Executive Directors, are offered the incidental expenses as appropriate.
opportunity to participate in the Groups SAYE Share Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan.
Senior managers participate in the In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element long-term incentive plan.
awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms and any other ongoing remuneration The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
weighted towards variable pay than for other employees to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful delivery of If appropriate and in exceptional circumstances the Committee business strategy, and in line with shareholder interests.
In may agree, on the recruitment of a new executive, a notice period addition, more of senior level remuneration is deferred than is the of in excess of 12 months but reducing to 12 months over a case for the workforce as a whole.
Employees were not consulted in respect of the Directors For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive remuneration policy, but the Committee does consider the Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with remuneration arrangements for the broader employee population the approved remuneration policy at that time.
when determining the policy for the Executive Directors.
Risk Management Risk is managed within the remuneration policy through theCommittee: Taking into consideration the recommendations contained in any applicable Remuneration Codes and associated guidance which apply to the St. Jamess Place Group.
Structuring the annual bonus plan to contain a mix of financial and strategic performance metrics, where performance conditions are tailored to the business outlook and strategy, including the management of risk within the business.
The Committee also retains the discretion to reduce the bonus out-turn where appropriate.
Assessing the performance metrics from a risk perspective, with input from the Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Requiring deferral of 50% of annual bonus payments into St. Jamess Place shares which are deferred for three years.
Requiring the Executive Directors to retain shares acquired on vesting of PSP awards granted from 1January 2015 for a twoyear period post the date of vesting net of tax.
Ensuring that the majority of the incentive pay comes in the form of a long-term incentive plan subject to stretching performance targets measured over multi-year performance periods, with the performance period for subsequent awards overlapping the previous award, together with an additional two year holding period.
This ensures that there is no particular incentive to maximise performance over a particular period.
Incorporating claw back into the Companys bonus and long term incentive plans.
Requiring the Executive Directors to build and maintain a substantial shareholding in the Company.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 75 75 Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors The chart below shows how the proportion of each Executive Directors remuneration package varies at different levels of performance in accordance with the policy to be implemented in 2015 and using the assumptions set out below.
A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
Target fixed pay plus 60% vesting of the annual bonus and 50% vesting of PSP awards.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% vesting of the annual bonus and PSP awards.
Salaries used are those applying on 1 March 2015 and taxable benefits are those reported for the year ending 31 December 2014.
Pension is based on 2015 policy applied to 1 March 2015 salaries.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
Participation in all employee plans, dividends payable on PSP awards over the vesting period or on deferred share bonus awards are not included in the above scenarios and the table assumes no increase to the share price.
Service Contracts The Companys policy is that service contracts may be terminated with 12 months notice from either the Company or from the Executive Director except in certain exceptional recruitment situations where a longer notice period from the Company may be set provided it reduces to a maximum of 12 months with a specified time limit.
Service contracts do not contain a fixed end date.
Under their service contracts the Executive Directors are entitled to salary, pension contributions and benefits for their notice period except on termination for events such as gross misconduct where payment will be for sums earned up to the date of termination with no notice period only.
The Company would seek to ensure that any payment is mitigated by use of phased payments and offset against earnings elsewhere in the event that an Executive Director finds alternative employment during his notice period.
There are no contractual provisions in force other than those set out above that impact any termination payment.
000 S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 76 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 In summary the position on cessation of employment is as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months by either party.
Termination payment Base salary plus benefits including pension.
An express obligation on the Executive to mitigate his loss.
Payments can be made on a monthly basis and reduced if an Executive is able to secure alternative employment.
In addition any statutory amounts would be paid as necessary.
Remuneration entitlements A pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with the vesting of on cessation outstanding share awards in certain circumstances as described below.
Change of control As on termination and with remuneration entitlements as described above.
When considering the size of any proposed termination payment, the Committee would take into account a number of factors including the health, length of service and performance of the relevant executive, including the duty to mitigate his own loss, with a broad aim to avoid rewarding poor performance while dealing fairly with cases where the departure is due to other reasons, for example illness or redundancy.
Any unvested awards held under the PSP schemes will lapse at cessation, unless the individual is leaving for certain reasons defined under the plan as death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment being either a company which ceases to be a Group member or relating to a business or part of a business which is transferred to a person who is not a Group member, or any other reason the Committee so decides.
In these circumstances, unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation subject to performance conditions being met and scaling back in respect of actual service as a proportion of the total vesting period unless the Committee decides that scaling back is inappropriate.
The same approach applies on a change of control.
Any unvested awards held under the Deferred Bonus Scheme will lapse at cessation unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In these circumstances the Committee may determine that unvested awards will vest at the cessation unless the Committee decides theyshould vest at the normal vesting date.
The Committee may agree to the payment of disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement services if appropriate and depending on the circumstances of the leaving Executive.
Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-executive Directors including the Chairman do not have service contracts or any benefits in kind arrangements and do not participate in any of the Groups pension or incentive arrangements.
The appointment of each Non-executive Director can be terminated by giving three months notice subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
Any period of service longer than six years is subject to particularly rigorous review by the Nomination Committee of the Board.
The Non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not provide for any payment on termination except for accrued fees and expenses to the date of termination.
The terms and conditions of Executive Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM, the details of which can be found on page 90.
External Appointments Executive Directors are permitted to be appointed to an external board or committee so long as this is unlikely to interfere with the business of the Group.
Any fees received in respect of external appointments are retained by the relevant Executive Director.
Currently, the only Executive Director who acts as a non-executive director on the Board of another listed company, is David Lamb, who is a non-executive director of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 77 77 Annual Report on Remuneration Advisers to the Committee The Annual Remuneration Report below will be put to an The Committee is advised by independent remuneration advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The information on consultants New Bridge Street NBS.
NBSs appointment as pages 80 to 86 has been audited where indicated.
adviser to the Committee is reviewed annually by the Committee.
NBS provided advice to the Committee on remuneration matters How the Committee operates to set the generally, including on executive pay, the legislation on Remuneration Policy remuneration reporting and incentive plans which are of The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, particular relevance to the Company.
NBS is a signatory to the determines the Companys remuneration policy and the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires its remuneration packages of the Executive Directors of the advice to be impartial.
NBS has confirmed to the Committee its Company and the Chairman.
In addition, the Committee compliance with the Code.
monitors the remuneration of the senior management team, including the Group Risk Director and his senior colleagues in the The total fees paid to New Bridge Street for the advice provided Risk Division including employees classified as Code Staff and to the Committee during the year were 100,047 excluding oversees the operation of the executive long term incentive VAT.
Fees are charged predominately on a time spent basis.
schemes and all employee share schemes.
NBS has not provided any other services to the Company during The membership and terms of reference of the Committee are the year.
However, certain subsidiaries of Aon plc, the parent reviewed annually and the terms of reference are available on the company of NBS, have provided some consultancy work relating Companys website.
to property fund monitoring and hedge funds to the Investment Committee and the fees for this work during 2014 were 128,140 Membership of and Attendance at the excluding VAT.
The Committee has been advised of the basis on Remuneration Committee Meetings which NBS is organised and managed as part of the wider Aon Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates were appointed as members of the organisation and the basis on which its staff are remunerated and Committee from 1 January 2014.
Sarah Bates stepped down as is satisfied that the additional services provided by other Aon Chairman of the Committee after the AGM in May 2014, to be group companies did not in any way compromise the replaced by Roger Yates.
Details of attendance at the meetings of independence of advice provided by NBS to the Committee.
the Remuneration Committee throughout the year can be found on page 55.
Engagement with Shareholders As explained in last years Remuneration Report, during 2013, The Committee receives advice from several different sources: the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Remuneration Policy The Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the for the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
As part Committee and provides advice on corporate governance, legal of this process, it sought the views of the Companys major and regulatory issues as well as the design and operation of the shareholders and investor representatives and was pleased that long term incentive schemes.
shareholders overwhelmingly approved the Groups remuneration Members of the executive team or other third parties as the policy at the 2014 AGM 99.85% voted in favour of the Committee sees fit including: resolution.
the Chief Executive to provide information on corporate or individual performance to the Committee, or to provide The Committee is updated on the latest views of major recommendations regarding the remuneration packages of shareholders and their representative bodies through meetings individual Directors: with investors and their representative bodies and from various the Chairman to provide information on the performance written communications received including published guidelines of individual Directors, including the Chief Executive: and the Chairman of the Committee is happy to meet with the Chief Financial Officer to provide explanations on shareholders on request to discuss any concerns regarding financial information relating to the Group: remuneration issues, should they arise.
the Chairman of the Risk Committee as part of the Companys risk management process: and New Bridge Street as independent adviser to the Committee.
Any recommendations from the management team are discussed by the Committee and adopted or amended as the Committee sees fit.
No Director is present at any part of a meeting of the Committee when their individual remuneration or contractual terms are being discussed.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 78 78 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied for 2015 2015 Salary Review The base salaries of the Executive Directors are not being increased in 2015.
However the Committee retains the discretion to award salary increases in line with the Directors remuneration policy in future years.
The current salaries as at 1 March 2014 and from 1 March 2015 are as follows: Increase from 1 March 2014 Salary from Salary from to 1 March Director 1 March 2014 1 March 2015 2015 David Bellamy 492,000 492,000 0% Andrew Croft 356,000 356,000 0% Ian Gascoigne 356,000 356,000 0% David Lamb 356,000 356,000 0% Annual Bonus The Executive Directors maximum bonus opportunity for 2015 will be the same as for 2014 being 150% of salary.
Half of the annual bonus will be determined by EEV operating profit and half by key strategic targets.
50% of the annual bonus earned for performance in 2015 will be paid in cash and the remaining 50% will be deferred in SJP shares for a three year period and subject to continued service.
The EEV operating profit target set by the Committee is based on a sliding scale to progressively reward incremental performance.
The EEV result is calculated based on best estimate assumptions and any deviation or changes from these assumptions are reported as an experience variance or an operating assumption change.
In setting the operating profit target for the year it is assumed the combined operating experience variance and operating assumption changes will have a neutral impact on the outcome for the year.
In setting the 2015 EEV Operating Profit target, the Committee maintained the new business and expense growth objectives at the same level as in previous years.
However, it was recognised that, in comparison to the 2014 operating profit target, the 2015 contribution to operating profit from the unwind of the discount rate will be negatively impacted by the lower discount rate, due to the 1.2% reduction in the UK ten-year Government gilt yield during 2014.
The Board considers that the performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and is not disclosing them at this time.
The performance metrics and performance against them will be disclosed in the 2015 Remuneration Report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
The team element of the 2015 annual bonus will be assessed by reference to key strategic targets based around the 2015 business plan, including elements relating to clients, shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Specific objectives include: the delivery of excellent service to the Groups clients as measured by surveys and other client feedback: enhancing the range of investment funds and maintaining strong investment performance: the successful recruitment and retention of high quality new Partners: successfully implementing the new administration system and transferring certain existing assets onto the new system: successfully controlling and mitigating the material risks that could impact the Group: and maintaining the Groups good relations with its shareholders and regulators.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 79 79 Performance Share Plan Awards As set out in the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM the Executive Directors will each receive a PSP award in 2015 of 190% of salary, except for David Bellamy who will receive a PSP award of 200% of salary.
The PSP awards to be granted in 2015 will be subject to a relative TSR performance condition for one-third of the award and earnings per share growth targets for two-thirds of the award as follows: Average annual adjusted Average annual adjusted EPS EPS growth including the growth excluding the unwind of the discount rate unwind of the discount rate TSR relative to the FTSE 51 to 150 Note 1 in excess of RPI Note 2 in excess of RPI Note 2 % of one % of one % of one third of third of third of award award award Performance level hurdle Performance required vesting Performance required vesting Performance required vesting Below threshold Below Median 0% Below 5% 0% Below 5% 0% Threshold Median 25% At least 5% 25% At least 5% 25% Stretch or above Upper Quartile or above 100% 16% or above 100% 16% or above 100% Note 1: FTSE 51 to 150, excluding investment trusts and companies in the FTSE oil, gas producers and mining sectors.
Straight line vesting occurs in between threshold and maximum vesting.
Note 2: The first EPS performance condition is calculated by reference to adjusted consolidated profit after tax on the EEV basis of accounting for both the life and unit trust businesses on a fully diluted per share basis.
The effect of the adjustment to the consolidated after tax figures will be to strip out the post tax EEV investment variance and any economic assumption change in the final year of the performance period as these factors are not within the control of management and can produce wide variations to reported earnings due to stock market fluctuations.
However, this measure of EPS is still impacted by stock market movements in the prior year due to the impact of any such movements on the unwind of the discount rate in the current year.
The second EPS performance condition is calculated in a similar way to the first EPS condition, save that a further adjustment is made to strip out the impact of the unwind of the discount rate.
This adjustment eliminates any direct impact of stock market volatility and changes in the economic assumptions throughout the whole three-year period of the performance condition.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors The fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2014 are as set out in column 1 below.
In early 2014 the Executive Directors and Chairman reviewed the Non-executive Directors fee structure with a view to simplification.
The simplified structure provides a higher base fee which includes committee membership rather than paying a base fee and additional committee membership fees.
The additional fee for the Chairmanship of a Committee continues.
This revised fee structure was implemented from 1 July 2014 and is set out in column 2 below.
The revised fee structure did not result in an aggregate increase to the fees paid to the Non-executive Directors in the second half of 2014, when compared to the first half of 2014, although the fees paid to some Non-executive Directors increased due to taking on additional responsibilities.
For 2015, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have been increased by 3%, in recognition of their increased workload, regulatory responsibilities and the size of the Group.
The 2015 fee levels are set out in column 3 of the table below.
1 2 3 Fees from Fees to 1 July to Fees from 30 June 31 December 1 January 2014 2014 2015 Chairman 170,000 170,000 175,100 Base fee 27,000 56,500 58,200 Audit Committee Member 16,250 N A N A Investment Committee Member 26,000 N A N A Risk Committee Member 13,000 N A N A Remuneration Committee Member 9,750 N A N A Nomination Committee Member 6,500 N A N A Committee Chair 6,500 16,000 16,480 Senior Independent Director 2,700 2,700 2,780 S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 80 80 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Remuneration Payable in respect of Performance in 2014 Directors Remuneration audited The following table sets out each element of remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014 or period thereof for appointments or cessations during the year.
ii As explained on page 70, half of the annual bonus is paid in cash, with the other half being used to purchase St. Jamess Place shares which are subject to forfeiture for three years under the terms of the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
iii The value of the long-term incentives is the value of shares vesting under the PSP scheme in the year ie: the three year performance period ends in that year together with the value of the dividends that would have been received during the three year performance period.
The figures for 2014 have been calculated using the average of the SJP share price in the threemonth period to 31 December 2014, being 7.51, as the actual vesting date of the PSP award is on 26 March 2015.
The figures for 2013 have been updated from the three month average figures used in last years report being 1,726,979 for David Bellamy and 1,149,358 for Andrew Croft, Ian Gascoigne and David Lamb to take into account the SJP share price on the date of vesting on 15 March 2014, being 8.25. iv Contributions made to the money purchase group pension scheme for the Executive Directors, being 20% of base salary.
To the extent that pension contributions were capped by legislation, a non-pensionable salary supplement was paid to the Executive Directors for the balance.
v Sarah Bates was appointed Chair of the Board on 1 January 2014.
The fee increases for Iain Cornish and Patience Wheatcroft between 2013 and 2014 are due to an increase in their Committee responsibilities and Iain Cornish becoming the senior independent director from 1 January 2014. vi Mike Wilson, a former director of the Company, was paid 200,000 in 2014 200,000 in 2013 in respect of his role as Chairman of the St. Jamess Place Foundation, assisting the Academy and mentoring various members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
vii David Lamb was a non-executive director of the Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc during the year and was paid a fee of 19,375 in 2014 in connection with that role 2013: 4,500.
Details of Variable Pay Earned in the Year Annual Bonus For the year under report, the performance conditions which applied to the bonus and the resulting payout under these were asfollows: Weighting Weighting Maximum Payout Payout Measure % of salary % of maximum Threshold value Actual % of salary % of maximum EEV operating 75% 50% 497m 549m 596.4m 75% 50% profit range of between 497m and 549m Note 1 Strategic 75% 50% Assessment by the Committee Performance 67.5% 45% business of the performance of the assessed plan objectives Executive Directors as a team by the Committee in relation to the various as objectives set by the Committee described more at the start of the year.
Total Payout 142.5% 95% Note 1: In setting the operating profit target for the year it was assumed that the combined operating experience variance and operating assumption changes would have a neutral impact on the outcome for the year.
The actual outcome for the year included a combined positive impact to the operating profit from these two items of 81.5 million.
The Committee concluded that this positive outcome was as a result of management action during the year and should therefore be included when assessing the bonus payout for the year.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 81 81 In terms of strategic objectives designed to ensure the success of Annual Bonus Strategic Targets Performance the business in the future, the Committee took into account: Assessment the growth in the size of the Partnership of 6.3% in 2014: As described in other parts of the Report and Accounts, the the success of the Academy in attracting suitable candidates to Company delivered strong performance in 2014 for our clients, the courses run in 2014, the establishment of a new Academy shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Committee considered based in Manchester and 79 advisers graduating from the these three groups when setting the strategic targets for 2014, Academy and joining the Partnership in 2014: together with other objectives set out in the 2014 business plan.
the high levels of retention for both employees and members of In serving our clients well, developing our employees and the the Partnership, assisted by additional training and Partnership for the future and striving to improve the development opportunities for both the senior management effectiveness of our organisation, we will be best placed to meet team, the Partnership and the workforce generally: our long-term business objectives, and create additional value for strong results from the employee survey conducted in 2014, our shareholders.
We also focus on the importance of safe and with employee engagement measured at 87% compared to sustainable growth through prudent management of risk and the 86% from the last survey in 2012 and significantly ahead of highest standards of regulatory compliance.
the financial services comparator group: and the improvement to documentation standards in relation to The Committee assessed how well the Executive team had new business submitted by the Partnership.
performed in relation to the objectives set at the start of the year.
The Committee did not place fixed weightings on the factors In addition to the above, the Committee assessed and noted the assessed, but made a judgement based on the Committees view of satisfactory completion of the various strategic objectives set out the relative importance and impact of those factors over the in the business plan, including: course of the year.
For some factors the Committee put in place the completion of the acquisition to purchase the Henley quantitative metrics, and for others qualitative judgments were Group in Asia: made, depending on the nature of the strategic objective.
continuing positive engagement with the Groups regulators: the completion of various objectives designed to enhance and As regards client satisfaction, the Committee took into account strengthen the monitoring and mitigation of key regulatory the following objectives: risks impacting the Group: the independent client satisfaction survey results for 2014 were the introduction on a pilot basis of the new administration very strong and in some categories the results were the highest platform for some unit trust and ISA business: achieved since the annual survey began in 2007.
In summary, the continuing development of the Groups range of funds, the 83% of clients rated their overall satisfaction with SJP as 8 or range of fund managers available to clients and the more out of 10 compared to 84% in 2013 and 83% of clients strengthening of the Investment Committee: and would be happy to recommend SJP to their contacts the ongoing success of the Groups CSR objectives, including compared to 81% in 2013.
Client service continues to be a raising a record 6m for the Foundation and expanding the key differentiator with 88% of clients rating 8 or more out of volunteering opportunities available to employees.
10 in relation to the statement SJP provides excellent client service.
In the annual Wealth Account survey, 94% of clients Taking all the above strategic objectives into account, the would recommend SJP to friends or contacts and 52% of those Committee awarded a bonus of 67.5% of salary 90% of the surveyed have done so already: maximum under the team performance element of the annual clients continued to benefit from above average performance bonus scheme, recognising that a high proportion of the strategic across the majority of funds, over a five and ten year period.
objectives were graded as outstanding or above stretch and that Over the ten year period 65% of funds outperformed their peer nearly all of the major business plan objectives had been group.
As regards the range of standard fund portfolios available satisfactorily completed.
to clients, the majority of portfolios outperformed the relevant Investment Association sector in 2014, with 7 out of 8 portfolios Notes outperforming the relevant Asset Risk Consultants ARC i The Committee has the discretion to scale back the annual bonus payable in respect of the Private Client Index: strategic measures if it considers it inappropriate in the context of the overall financial results of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the Groups performance and agreed that no the Group won a number of industry awards, further details of scale-back was appropriate.
which are set out on page 40, many of which were voted on by ii The Committee retains the discretion to amend each element of the bonus, up or down, clients:and within the overall cap of 150% of salary, to take into account other relevant factors such as the the above factors, together with strong service levels, generally Groups performance compared to competitor organisations or, for instance, an exceptional positive or negative event which impacts the Group.
The Committee reviewed the Groups contributed to excellent retention of funds under management, performance as well as competitors and the external market at the end of the performance with 96% of existing funds being retained see page 32 for period and agreed that no adjustment was required.
further details and a 7% reduction in complaint levels iii Half of the bonus is paid in cash, with the remainder being invested in the Companys shares and deferred for three years, under the Groups deferred bonus plan.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 82 82 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Long Term Incentive Awards Vesting of Performance Share Plan PSP awards audited On 31 December 2014, the awards made on 26 March 2012 under the PSP reached the end of their three year performance period.
These will vest on 26 March 2015, being the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The performance conditions which applied to the 2012 PSP awards, and the actual performance achieved against these conditions, are set out in the table below: Average annual adjusted Average annual adjusted EPS growth including the EPS growth excluding the unwind of the discountrate unwind of the discountrate TSR relative to the FTSE 250 in excess of RPI in excess of RPI % of one % of one % of one third of third of third of award award award Performance level hurdle Performance required vesting Performance required vesting Performance required vesting Below threshold Below Median 0% Below 5% 0% Below 5% 0% Threshold Median 25% At least 5% 25% At least 5% 25% Stretch or above Upper Quartile or above 100% 16% or above 100% 16% or above 100% Actual Achieved 29 out of 168 companies 100% 18.6% 100% 14.4% 89.1% Above Upper Quartile F TSE 250, excluding investment trusts and companies in the FTSE oil, gas and mining sectors.
Accordingly, the total percentage of the 2012 PSP awards vesting was 96.37%, which resulted in the following awards vesting to the Executive Directors: Total Value of number Percentage Number shares of shares of awards of shares vesting 1 Director granted vesting vesting 000 David Bellamy 242,220 96.37% 233,419 1,753 Andrew Croft 161,206 96.37% 155,348 1,167 Ian Gascoigne 161,206 96.37% 155,348 1,167 David Lamb 161,206 96.37% 155,348 1,167 Note 1: The deemed share price used to calculate the value of shares vesting was 7.51 being the 3 month average to 31 December 2014 as the awards will not actually vest until 26 March 2015.
Share Awards granted to the Executive Directors in 2014 Number of SJP shares % of face Average over which value that share price award was Face value would vest at threshold at date of granted of award Director Type of award Basis of award granted grant Note 1 000 performance David Bellamy Nil cost option 190% of salary of 492,000 8.515 109,782 935 25% Andrew Croft Nil cost option 175% of salary of 356,000 8.515 73,165 623 25% Ian Gascoigne Nil cost option 175% of salary of 356,000 8.515 73,165 623 25% David Lamb Nil cost option 175% of salary of 356,000 8.515 73,165 623 25% Note 1: The number of shares awarded was calculated based on the average share price over a period of three days prior to the date of grant on 26 March 2014, being 8.515 per share.
The face value of the award figure is calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the average share price figure of 8.515.
PSP awards are structured as nil cost options and there is therefore no exercise price payable on exercise.
Dividend equivalents accrue to the Executive Directors between the date of grant and exercise of the award up to a maximum of five years from date of grant, but are released only to the extent that awards vest.
Further details of the performance conditions which apply to the awards are set out in Notes 1 and 2 on page 79.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 83 83 Total Shareholder Return Performance The graph below shows a comparison of the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All-Share index over the last six financial years.
The Company considers this to be the most appropriate comparative index, given the broad nature of the index and the companies within it.
500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 St. Jamess Place Total Return FTSE All Share Total Return Total Remuneration for the Chief Executive The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive during each of the financial years shown.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards which vested based on performance in those years and ending in that year for PSP scheme awards.
Of this, 881,624 is due to increases in the SJP share price over the vesting period, being an increase of 101%.
The value of long-term incentive awards for 2014 has been calculated using the average of the SJP share price in the three month period to 31 December 2014, being 7.51, as the actual vesting date of the PSP award is on 26 March 2015.
The 2013 figure for total remuneration has been updated by substituting the three month average figure used to calculate the value of long-term incentive awards in last years report by a revised figure based on the SJP share price on the date of vesting on 15 March 2014, being 8.25.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in the year ending 31 December 2014, compared to the year ending 31 December 2013.
2013 2014 Percentage Million Million change Operating profit after tax 190.3 187.9 1% Dividends 82.1 120.7 47% Employee remuneration costs 88.6 111.7 26% The increase in the employee remuneration costs in 2014 were largely due to an increase in employee headcount partly as a result of the acquisition of the Henley Group in Asia, and an increase to the costs of share awards due to the headcount increase and the increase in the SJP share price.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 84 84 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Percentage Increase in the Remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average Group employee.
% change 2013 to 2014 Chief Executive Salary 2.9 Benefits Note 1 2.8 Bonus 24.5 Average per Employee Salary 3.2 Benefits 2.4 Bonus 12.9 Note 1: See Note i on page 80 for further details.
Share Awards The tables below set out details of share awards that have been granted to individuals who were Directors during 2014 and which had yet to vest at some point during the year.
The performance period is the three year period ending on 31 December 2013.
The performance conditions, each in respect of one-third of the award, relate to i EPS including the impact of the unwind of the discount rate, as described more fully on page 71, ii EPS excluding the impact of the said unwind and iii TSR compared to the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts and companies in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
The EPS scale starts at RPI 5% for 25% of the award to vest and ends at RPI 16% for 100% of the award to vest, with pro rata vesting between the said points.
The TSR sliding scale is between median and upper quartile, with 25% of the TSR part of the award vesting at median.
ii These awards were made on 26 March 2012 when the St. Jamess Place share price was 3.733.
The performance period is the three year period ending on 31 December 2014.
The performance conditions, each in respect of one-third of the award, relate to i EPS including the impact of the unwind of the discount rate, as described more fully on page 71 ii EPS excluding the impact of the said unwind and iii TSR compared to the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts and companies in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
iii These awards were made on 21 March 2013 when the St. Jamess Place share price was 5.07.
The performance period is the three year period ending on 31 December 2015.
The three performance conditions, each in respect of one-third of the award, relate to i EPS including the impact of the unwind of the discount rate, as described more fully on page 71 ii EPS excluding the impact of the said unwind and iii TSR compared to the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts and companies in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
Up to 774 shares being the maximum value under the 30k Inland Revenue cap on approved share options can be exercised via a linked award under an approved share option scheme with an exercise price of 5.155. iv These awards were made on 26 March 2014 when the St. Jamess Place share price was 8.515.
The performance period is the three year period ending on 31 December 2016.
The three performance conditions, each in respect of one-third of the award, relate to i EPS including the impact of the unwind of the discount rate, as described more fully on page 71 ii EPS excluding the impact of the said unwind and iii TSR compared to the FTSE 51-150 Index, excluding investment trusts and companies in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
Up to 3,054 shares being the maximum value under the 30k Inland Revenue cap on approved share options can be exercised via a linked award under an approved share option scheme with an exercise price of 8.515. v These awards lapsed due to the performance condition based on EPS more fully described in note i above not being fully satisfied and, as a result, 14.984% of the award lapsed at the end of the performance period 13,352 shares lapsed for David Bellamy and 8,887 shares lapsed for the other Executive Directors.
vi None of the Directors exercised PSP awards in 2014.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 85 85 Deferred Bonus Scheme Shares held during 2014 audited The table below sets out details of the awards held by the Directors under the deferred element of the annual bonus scheme during2014: Balance at Released Awarded Balance at i ii iii Director 1 January 2014 during year during year 31 December 2014 Vesting date David Bellamy 77,558 77,558 15 Mar 2014 49,563 49,563 26 Mar 2015 24,591 24,591 21 Mar 2016 33,924 33,924 26 Mar 2017 Andrew Croft 58,397 58,397 15 Mar 2014 35,813 35,813 26 Mar 2015 17,769 17,769 21 Mar 2016 24,556 24,556 26 Mar 2017 Ian Gascoigne 58,397 58,397 15 Mar 2014 35,813 35,813 26 Mar 2015 17,769 17,769 21 Mar 2016 24,556 24,556 26 Mar 2017 David Lamb 58,397 58,397 15 Mar 2014 35,813 35,813 26 Mar 2015 17,769 17,769 21 Mar 2016 24,556 24,556 26 Mar 2017 Notes: i These deferred share awards were awarded on 15 March 2011 equal in value to the Executives 2010 annual cash bonus.
The St. Jamess Place share price on the date of the award was 3.14 and on the date of release 15 March 2014 was 8.25. ii These deferred share awards were awarded on 26 March 2014, equal in value to the Executives 2013 annual cash bonus.
These shares will be held for a restricted period ending on 26 March 2017.
The St. Jamess Place share price on 26 March 2014 was 8.515. iii Outstanding awards at the year-end relate to deferred share awards awarded in 2012, 2013 and 2014 see ii above.
The share price at the date of the 2012 award 26 March 2012 was 3.733 and as at the date of the 2013 award 21 March 2013 was 5.07. iv Further details of the deferred element of the annual bonus scheme are set out on page 70.
Dividends accrue to the Executive Directors during the three year period while the shares are subject toforfeiture.
SAYE Share Option Scheme Shares held during 2014 audited Details of the options held by the Directors in 2014 under the SAYE scheme and any movements during the year are as follows: Options Options held at held at 1 January Granted in Lapsed in Exercised 31 December Exercise Director 2014 year year in year 2014 price Dates from which exercisable David Bellamy 3,040 3,040 2.96 1 May 2015 to 31 Oct 2015 Andrew Croft 3,040 3,040 2.96 1 May 2015 to 31 Oct 2015 Ian Gascoigne 3,272 3,272 2.75 1 Nov 2015 to 30 Apr 2016 David Lamb 3,272 3,272 2.75 1 Nov 2015 to 30 Apr 2016 Note: i At 31 December 2014 the mid-market price for St. Jamess Place shares was 8.145.
The range of prices between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 was between 6.480 and 8.795.
Share Incentive Plan Shares held during 2014 audited The table below sets out details of the awards held by the Directors under the Share Incentive Plan during 2014: Balance at Partnership Matching shares Dividend shares Balance at 1 January shares allocated allocated allocated 31 December Director 2014 during year during year during year 2014 Holding period matching shares i Andrew Croft 642 642 26 Mar 2010 to 26 Mar 2013 325 325 26 Mar 2013 to 26 Mar 2016 ii Ian Gascoigne 502 502 28 Mar 2011 to 28 Mar 2014 176 17 17 210 26 Mar 2014 to 26 Mar 2017 Notes: i No further shares were purchased for Mr Croft during 2014. ii 176 partnership shares were awarded on 26 March 2014 at a price of 8.515 per share, in return for 1,500 being deducted from Mr Gascoignes pre-tax salary.
A further 17 matching shares were awarded on the same date.
The dividend received on all of Mr Gascoignes shares in this plan was reinvested on 20 May 2014 to purchase an additional eight shares at a price of 7.555.
The dividend received on all of Mr Gascoignes shares in this plan was reinvested on 25 Sep 2014 to purchase an additional nine shares at a price of 7.23. iii The partnership, dividend and matching shares will be held by an employee benefit trust on behalf of the Director.
The matching and dividend shares must be held for a minimum period of three years from the date of the award.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 86 86 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 Between 31 December 2014 and 24 February 2015 there were no exercises or other dealings in the Companys share awards by the Directors.
Share Interests and Shareholding Guidelines audited To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, the Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 150% of salary, to be achieved through retaining at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired under the various incentive share plans, until such time as the upper limit of their share ownership target has been met.
Executives are also required to hold a further 50% of salary in shares and or in one or more St. Jamess Place fund portfolios, thus providing further alignment with shareholders and clients.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
All of the Executive Directors have met the shareholding guideline.
Directors Interests in Shares Shares held Shares held % of base salary held at 1 January at 31 December in SJP shares as at i Director 2014 2014 31 December 2014 David Bellamy 1,294,458 1,291,838 2,138% Andrew Croft 803,738 785,980 1,798% Ian Gascoigne 693,263 660,125 1,510% David Lamb 415,003 381,162 872% Sarah Bates 13,500 13,500 v Vivian Bazalgette 20,000 Iain Cornish vi Simon Jeffreys 18,364 Patience Wheatcroft 1,500 2,500 vi Roger Yates 10,000 10,000 Notes: i Calculated using the mid market price at 31 December 2014 of 8.145. ii The interests of the Directors include those of their Connected Persons as defined in section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act.
iii The interests of the Executive Directors set out above include deferred bonus scheme awards held in trust for the Directors, details of which are set out on page 85.
The interests of the Executive Directors also include awards under the Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 85. iv The Companys register of Directors interests contains full details of Directors shareholdings and any share awards under the Companys various share schemes.
v Vivian Bazalgette ceased being a member of the Board with effect from 30 June 2014. vi Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates were appointed Non-executive Directors on 1 January 2014. vii Disclosure of the Directors interests in share awards is given on pages 84 and 85 of the Remuneration Report and also in Note 34 Related Party Transactions.
Between 31 December 2014 and 24 February 2015 there were no transactions in the Companys shares by the Directors.
Executive Directors Shareholdings and Outstanding Share Awards Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding owned at PSP awards SAYE options DBS awards SIP shares 31 December performance no performance no performance no performance i ii iii iv v Director 2014 conditions conditions conditions conditions David Bellamy 1,291,838 782,150 3,040 108,078 Andrew Croft 785,980 520,854 3,040 78,138 967 Ian Gascoigne 660,125 520,854 3,272 78,138 712 David Lamb 381,162 520,854 3,272 78,138 i Beneficially owned shares include those DBS Awards and SIP Shares set out in columns iv and v above.
ii Details on the PSP awards are set out on page 84. iii Details on the SAYE options are set on page 85. iv Details on DBS awards are set out on page 85. v Details on the SIP shares are set out on page 85.
Dilution Dilution limits agreed by shareholders at the time of shareholder approval of the various long term incentive schemes allow for the following: up to 5% of share capital in ten years to be used for grants to employees under discretionary schemes: up to 10% of share capital in ten years to be used for grants to employees under all employee share schemes: and up to 10% of share capital in ten years to be used for grants to employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership under all share schemes i. e. both the employee and Partner share schemes.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 87 87 The table below sets out, as at 31 December 2014, the number of new ordinary shares in the Company which have been issued, or are capable of being issued subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions as a result of options or awards granted under the various long term incentive schemes operated by the Company in the ten years prior to 31 December 2014.
Number of new % of total issued ordinary shares share capital as at Share Scheme of 15 pence each 31 December 2014 SAYE schemes 3,876,708 0.75% Executive share schemes 11,623,086 2.24% Partners share schemes 19,792,425 3.81% Total 35,292,219 6.80% In addition, as at 31 December 2014, the Groups Employee Share Trust held 2,048,288 shares in the Company which were acquired to satisfy awards made under the PSP and executive share option schemes.
A further 1,676,958 shares, registered to employees under the terms of the Groups deferred bonus scheme, have been allocated by the Groups Employee Share Trust.
These shares are allocated to the relevant individuals on a restricted basis whereby the recipients are not entitled to the shares until completion of the three year restricted period.
Further details of the deferred bonus scheme are set out on page 70.
Interests in Shares Held in Trusts Certain Executive Directors and employees are deemed to have an interest or a potential interest as potential discretionary beneficiaries under the St. Jamess Place Employee Share Trust.
As such, they were treated as at 31 December 2014 as being interested in 2,048,288 ordinary shares of 15 pence in the Company, such shares being held by S G Hambros Trust Company Channel Islands Limited, the trustee of that trust.
Statement of Shareholding Voting at AGM At last years AGM held on 14 May 2014, the Remuneration Policy for the Group and the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast For 340,809,682 99.83% Against 187,505 0.06% Abstentions 384,431 0.11% Total 341,381,618 100% Remuneration Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast For 333,159,283 97.59% Against 499,327 0.15% Abstentions 7,723,008 2.26% Total 341,381,618 100% This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Roger Yates Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2015
