Directors report Directors remuneration report 2014 report on remuneration Differences in remuneration policy for all employees and the executive directors What was paid to executive directors who joined the Group in 2014?
For all employees, the performance, reward and benets approach summarised in the table below supports and drives business strategy and reinforces the Groups values in the context of a clearly articulated risk appetite and a Group-wide framework.
New executive directors remuneration All employees Code Staff Executive directors Approach on recruitment for directors remuneration approved at the AGM on 8 May 2014 Base salary and benets Yes Yes Yes The Groups approach to reward and benets reects the fact that many of our employees bring international experience and expertise and that we recruit from a global marketplace.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a Fixed pay allowances Not applicable Selected material risk-takers Yes paid in shares competitive reward package that reects our international nature and enables us to attract and retain candidates to the role.
Base only paid in cash and shares salary and xed pay allowance will be set to reect the role and the skills and experience of the candidate, and will enable payment of TVC Most employees are eligible Yes, eligible to be considered Yes, eligible to be considered a market-competitive total remuneration within the limits on variable compensation set by our remuneration policy.
to be considered for an for an award.
Any award is Where it is decided to compensate for forfeited remuneration from the individuals previous employer through a buy-out, it will typically award as part of the paid in cash up to certain delivered in shares, with be delivered in the form of restricted shares or performance shares.
The Group looks to replicate broadly the arrangements being discretionary TVC plan.
Any limits, at which point part is 16 per cent paid upfront and bought out.
award is paid in cash up to then deferred and delivered the rest deferred.
Fifty per cent certain limits, at which point in shares or cash and shares in total is subject to further The Committee recognises that in exceptional circumstances the use of a guaranteed variable compensation award can be important part is then deferred and long-term performance in securing key senior talent, albeit it acknowledges that there is a need for appropriate safeguards on how it is composed and delivered in shares conditions delivered and subject to regulatory restrictions.
The Committee will take into consideration the variable remuneration awarded or offered by the individuals previous employer in a similar role.
For senior management a portion of the TVC may be Any conditional award is subject to the prevailing deferral mechanism, claw-back policy and the maximum of 200 per cent of xed delivered in performance pay as valued in line with the EBA rules.
share awards Any new executive directors package would normally include the same elements, and be subject to the same structure as those of the existing executive directors, as shown below.
When making remuneration decisions, the Groups policy is to consider Group performance and to differentiate based on Element Maximum percentage of salary individual performance.
Market benchmarking data is used, but treated with caution, so that the Group pays only what is necessary to attract and retain the talent the Group needs to achieve the business objectives.
Base salary Not applicable The Committee reviews annually, and takes into account, the remuneration trends across the Group, including the relationship Fixed pay allowance 100 per cent of base salary between executive directors remuneration and the remuneration of other Group employees.
The Committee oversees the remuneration structures for Code Staff dened on page 206 and works with the Human Resources team to ensure consistency Legacy matters For existing employees the Group will continue to honour remuneration commitments of approach throughout the Group, in addition to overseeing compliance with regulations.
already in place Benets Dependent on circumstances but typically consists of car provision, medical The percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and all employees insurance, life assurance and, for international hires, expatriate benets as outlined in The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between the 2013 and 2014 performance years for both the the policy table Group Chief Executive and the wider employee population.
To enable a comparison, for the all employees group: Pension 40 per cent of base salary O The taxable benets for UK employees have been used, as it was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given the varied requirements in the provision of benets across different jurisdictions Variable compensation Dependent on circumstances but no more than 200 per cent of xed pay as valued in line with the EBA rules O The base salary and TVC data for the global employee population who are eligible to participate in the discretionary TVC plan has been used, as those employees have an element of variable remuneration CEO All employees Recruitment arrangements for Andy Halford Remuneration element % change % change In June 2014, the Board was pleased to welcome Andy Halford as a new executive director with effect from 1 July and Group Base salaries 4.2 3.5 Finance Director.
It was the Committees responsibility to set the remuneration for Andys role and its approach was to judge Taxable benets 4.0 18.4 carefully where to position the company relative to international banking peers so that Andys pay summarised below was TVC 100.0 9.1 competitive, reected his individual experience and was in line with the approved directors remuneration policy, but was no more than necessary for such a role.
In line with the Committees usual annual process, executive directors salaries are reviewed against market data.
In February 2014, the Committee noted that Peter Sands salary had not been increased for three years.
The Committee approved an increase of Remuneration element Details 4.2 per cent.
Base salary $1,400,000 Benets Car provision, medical insurance and life assurance Pension 40 per cent of base salary Fixed pay allowance $700,000 paid in shares, released over five years TVC Entitlement to participate in the discretionary TVC plan up to 200 per cent of xed pay Buy-out of forfeited To be granted replacement share awards with a face value of $4.66 million, compensation whichreected the value of the awards forfeited from his previous employment.
Thereplacement awards consisted of a $1.88 million share award to be made in June2015 and a performance share award of $2.78 million made in June 2014 192 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 193
