Directors report Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report 2014 report on remuneration How the executive directors 2014 TVC will be delivered and the policy implemented in 2015 What was the response to shareholder feedback on the directors remuneration policy?
Key features of existing policy How 2014 TVC will be delivered Implementation of the policy in 2015 Shareholder voting and shareholder engagement O O O Maximum of 200 per cent Underpin share award introduced as Balanced scorecard aligned to the The table below shows the votes cast at the AGM in May 2014 on remuneration-related matters.
ofxedcompensation part of TVC, which has long-term Groups five strategic priorities to performance conditions deliver on the new strategy O Zero cash element all variable For Against Withheld O O compensation is delivered in shares Increase in proportion of TVC subject Prospective disclosure of scorecard tolong-term performance conditions measures and weightings, and Advisory vote on the 2013 Directors remuneration report 422,353,752 24,164,622 5,888,574 O More than 80 per cent is deferred from 25 per cent to 50 per cent retrospective disclosure of outcomes 95% 5% subject to malus, with 37.5 per cent O O deferred for a full five years Reducing to 25 per cent the proportion Claw-back of cash and vested Binding vote on the remuneration policy applies for three years 266,680,576 184,008,107 1,664,073 of shares that vest for threshold variable compensation introduced 59% 41% performance under each of the three O No ability to offer guaranteed Binding vote to make the maximum variable compensation ratio 200% of xed remuneration 441,361,419 9,480,365 1,502,695 performance share award measures variablecompensation applies indefinitely 98% 2% O Resetting of targets for the performance shares award measures to ensure they The Committee was clearly disappointed with the level of support for the 2014 remuneration policy and has acted to address are stretching yet realistic shareholders concerns.
Although shareholders and investor bodies have a range of views, some common concerns were clear, and the table below summarises the feedback received and how it has been addressed.
How the Groups new approach to TVC is aligned to the Groups strategy Shareholder concerns Action There was a lack of transparency in how the Committee A balanced scorecard will be introduced in 2015 to provide a TVC determination TVC delivery determined the TVC awards of executive directors clear and objective assessment of executive performance and Incentivising directors to execute the strategy Rewarding long-term sustained performance used to determine TVC awards levels.
The scorecard balances both key financial measures and strategic measures The measures and weightings for 2015 have been disclosed Strategic priorities TVC scorecard assessment Share awards Malus and claw-back inthis report.
Details of the targets and the Committees assessment of performance will be disclosed in the 2015 Enables reclaim Performance Financial measures Upfront and deferred shares 50 per cent of award in a range of TVC Directors remuneration report 50 per cent of scorecard weighting of circumstances Delivered over three years including risk Client The proportion of TVC that has long-term performance Twenty-five per cent of TVC will continue to be delivered Directly linked to performance priorities management relationships Creates sustained performance linkage conditions is too low intheform of performance share awards vesting after and conduct through share price exposure Ensures veyears.
This award is subject to stretch long-term Organisational sustainability of performance conditions effectiveness performance Other strategic measures Performance shares 25 per cent of TVC EPS, RoRWA and TSR reect long-term A further 25 per cent of TVC will vest only if, after three years, efficiency 50 per cent of scorecard weighting performance, balancing risk and return a threshold level of financial performance has been achieved.
Directly linked to non-financial The underpin is a pass or fail condition Underpin shares 25 per cent of TVC strategic priorities People, culture Ensures incentive for strategy execution and conduct is only paid if performance is delivered The combination of the scorecard containing 50 per cent financial measures and further long-term performance conditions on How the executive directors 2014 TVC will be delivered and the remuneration policy will be implemented in 2015 50 per cent of the TVC award means that 75 per cent of any award is driven by financial and share price performance-related measures.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for executive directors in 2015 There will be no changes in how the remuneration policy is implemented in 2015 compared to 2014 in respect of base salary, xedpay allowances, benets and pensions.
Changes in how TVC will be determined and delivered in 2015 are explained below.
O How will TVC be determined?
Decisions will be made by reference to a balanced scorecard, the performance measures ofwhich are disclosed on page 179 O How will awards be delivered?
TVC will be delivered in shares over a five-year period.
Fifty per cent of the TVC rather than 25 per cent currently will vest only if additional long-term performance conditions are met.
This will be achieved through the introduction of a financial underpin that applies to 25 per cent of TVC O Why?
The combination of how the Committee will now determine and deliver TVC will support execution of the Groups strategic priorities and will lead to better alignment with shareholder interests.
A significant part of all executive directors awards will pay out only if the strategic actions taken now translate into future financial performance 176 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 177 Directors report Directors remuneration report 2014 report on remuneration Illustration of how 2015 TVC will be delivered 2015 scorecard 200% of 1 Measure Weighting % 2015 target range 12 3 4 xed pay 25% Deferred Financial performance Underlying pre-tax 12.5 To be disclosed retrospectively Performance TVC award share award 2 share award operating profit subject to determined long-term by the 12.5% performance Normalised earnings 12.5 To be disclosed retrospectively Underpin Committee conditions Potential Maximum share awards per share growth 12.5% 50% by claw-back TVC 4% reference up until Return on risk-weighted 12.5 To be disclosed retrospectively 15% to the 7th year 3,4 assets RoRWA scorecard Upfront and 15% deferred in March share award Common Equity Tier 1 12.5 Maintain prudent buffer over regulatory capital 0% of 2016 50% 16% 4 xed pay ratio requirements 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Other strategic measures Client relationships 20 Deepen, broaden and selectively grow client Year of vesting relationships, as evidenced by an increase in Notes average multi-product or multi-market ratios 1.
The 2015 scorecard measures and weightings have been disclosed on page 179 2.
A financial underpin will be attached to 25 per cent of the TVC award.
Together with the existing performance share award, long-term performance conditions will therefore Evidence that the network is more effectively apply to 50 per cent of TVC leveraged 3.
Awards will be paid in shares over five years.
Awards will be disclosed on a face value basis, consistent with the expected value proportions in the existing policy 4.
Awards will be subject to malus and claw-back for seven years from the date of award Organisational 20 Deliver productivity improvements of at least effectiveness and $400 million As a result of the changes, from 2015 executive directors remuneration at the maximum will be divided equally between a xed efficiency pay, b upfront and deferred share awards, and c share awards subject to long-term performance conditions.
Deliver transformation in the Retail Clients segment by delivering retail branches plan and growth in Use of the new balanced scorecard retail liabilities The business has been reorganised during the year and has refreshed its strategy.
The Group needs to incentivise both the right People, culture and 10 Satisfactory progress has been made on the 2015 strategic actions and delivery of financial performance.
The new balanced scorecard reinforces this by linking TVC to the Groups conduct conduct agenda, including any commitments made five strategic priorities.
to regulators The measures and weighting of the performance measures that apply to 2015 TVC for executive directors and the proposed Successful execution of the 2015 milestones under criteria for assessing the executive directors annual progress against the financial performance 50 per cent weighting and other the Groups financial crime risk mitigation and strategic priorities 50 per cent weighting are set out on page 179.
The four financial-related measures have equal weighting to remediation programmes ensure an appropriate focus on capital and returns.
Notes The specic scorecard targets take into account the Groups 2015 financial plan and its priorities for the next few years.
There will be retrospective disclosure of financial target ranges and the outcomes against both financial and strategic measures Committee considers such targets to be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Groupto 2. profit will be measured on an underlying basis with adjustments to such items as disposals, other acquisition and corporate-related activity, goodwill and own credit disclose them before the end of the financial year.
Targets will be disclosed in the 2015 Directors remuneration report alongside adjustment.
Although underlying profit would ordinarily exclude the cost of any regulatory fines, for the purposes of the scorecard, such fines would be fully taken into account the actual level of performance achieved.
RoRWA will be measured on a post-tax basis 4.
RoRWA and CET1 are dened based on regulatory denitions and modelling assumptions as at 1 January 2015.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into The Committee will review the scorecard annually and may vary the measures, weightings and targets each year.
account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period At the end of the year the Committee will follow a three-step process: 1.
Consider eligibility for TVC Conrmation that the Groups financial performance has been achieved within the Groups risk appetite and the forward-looking capital position, and therefore nothing prevents TVC awards being made.
In addition, each executive director had achieved aminimum standard in terms of living the Groups values.
Evaluate performance against the Groups priorities If each of the scorecard targets are met, then, subject to any further adjustment, 50 per cent of the maximum TVC would be the outcome.
If performance is below target for any of the measures, the Committee will use its judgement to determine an amount below 50 per cent of the maximum.
Superior performance that is, in excess of the target of any of the measures may receive a payout above 50 per cent.
Retrospective disclosure of its assessment of annual performance against both the financial measures and other strategic priorities will be made, together with any overriding discretion exercised by the Committee.
Assess personal performance and nalise TVC for each executive director The payout under the Group scorecard can be adjusted by the Committee positively and negatively for an individual directors performance and for factors such as the risk and control environment in an individual directors area of responsibility.
Taking into account the combination of the initial scorecard and the long-term performance conditions, 75 per cent of TVC will be linked to financial or shareholder-return performance measures and 50 per cent of TVC will be subject to a double hurdle of annual scorecard measures and long-term performance conditions.
