CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report In relation to our other remuneration policies we have maintained CHAIRMANS STATEMENT our approach of providing a strong link between our overall reward Over the past 12 months Carphone Warehouse has continued packages and performance and the delivery of our strategic priorities, todeliver solid performance in its core business whilst outlining which we have stated as continuing to grow our core business, acompelling growth strategy for the future.
It has also seen the creating partnerships across Mainland Europe and developing business re-enter the FTSE 250 as a company with a premium Connected World Services.
listing on the London Stock Exchange and managed the smooth transition of senior level Board changes with Roger Taylor moving We are also acutely aware that our success is largely down to the from Chief Executive Officer to Deputy Chairman and Andrew Harrison dedication and hard work of all our employees and that it is vital that joining the Board as Chief Executive Officer.
they continue to feel fairly and appropriately rewarded and that they are able to share in the success of the business.
We aretherefore We have used this opportunity to review our approach to remuneration very pleased this year to have been able to reintroduce a sharesave to ensure it is aligned to our strategic direction, appropriate for a plan for allUK employees, which has enjoyed a good take-up rate.
FTSE company and focused on driving superior shareholder returns.
If the Merger is completed, the Groups remuneration policy As a result we have made a number of changes this year including willbechanged accordingly.
In particular this will reflect changes the introduction of new long-term incentive plans that align the inremuneration forexecutive directors and changes to their interests of our senior managers with our shareholders, providing participation in our long-term incentive plans with the intention to the opportunity for them to earn significant value but only if superior have consistent alignment between existing executives and those returns are delivered to our shareholders.
We were pleased to see who join the Group as part of the Merger.
The Prospectus and this new plan receive 96% support from our shareholders at the Circular also set out details in respect of the existing incentive general meeting on 24 June 2013. schemes of Dixons Retail plc and how these will be affected by the Merger.
The new policy will be set out in next years annual report We have also taken the opportunity to bring our executive directors and put to shareholders for approval at next years annual general salary and notice periods in line with the market and normal meeting.
The current remuneration report and policy should practice for a FTSE 250 business.
therefore be considered by shareholders in this context.
No changes are proposed to the basic salaries of the executive directors as part of the annual pay review process.
Bonus payments John Gildersleeve Chairman, Remuneration Committee will be at slightly above target levels.
No long-term incentives vested during the year.
REMUNERATION STRATEGY REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Put simply, our aim is to generate superior returns for our The Remuneration Policy set out in this report will be put to shareholders and the key to achieving this is our people.
shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the annual general meeting on 23 July 2014 and the policy will be effective from that Our remuneration strategy is underpinned by remuneration date.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the policy for a period packages that are designed to motivate high-performing people of three years starting from the effective date of the policy.
The remuneration packages: are transparent and demonstrably aligned with the interests ofshareholders: are weighted to variable pay that incentivises outperformance over the short and long term: are structured to ensure that superior rewards are only paid forexceptional performance against challenging targets: are consistently applied across the Group to promote alignment and teamwork: recognise the importance of delivering across a balanced set ofmetrics to ensure the right behaviours are adopted and the long-term health of the business is protected: and encourage management to have a significant personal stake inthe long-term success of the business.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are summarised in the following table: PURPOSE AND ASSESSMENT OF ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE Base salary fixed To aid the Reviewed annually with effect from 1 July.
No changes to the Salaries are recruitment, base salaries of the reviewed annually The review reflects a range of factors retention and executive directors by the Committee including merit levels, internal relativity and motivation of are proposed for at the appropriate cost.
Typically increases for executive high-performing the coming year.
meeting having directors willbe in line with increases people.
due regard tothe across the Group.
Increases beyond those Salary levels for factors noted in To reflect their granted across the Group may be awarded in current incumbents the Remuneration experience and certaincircumstances such as changes are as follows: Policy.
importance to inresponsibilities, progression in the role Chief Executive thebusiness.
and significant increases in the size, Officer 475,000 complexity or value of the Group.
Chief Financial Our overall policy, having due regard to the Officer 350,000 factors noted, is normally to target salaries up to the median level.
Salaries for new appointments as executive directors will be set in accordance with the Recruitment Policy set out on page 47 of the Remuneration Policy Report.
Benefits fixed In line with the Directors are entitled to a combination of The cost to the Not applicable.
Companys benefits which, with the exception of the car Group of providing strategyto keep allowance, are provided to all UK-based such benefits will remuneration employees.
They include: vary from year to weighted to variable year in accordance pay thatincentivises car allowance: with the cost of outperformance, providing such amodest range of subsidised private medical cover: benefits.
long-term incapacity cover: life assurance: holiday and sick pay: and eligibility to participate in employee SaveAsYou Earn schemes.
Should an executive director be recruited from or in a non-UK location, benefits may be determined by those typically provided inthe normal country of residence.
Pension fixed A modest pension The Company makes a modest contribution Executive directors Not applicable.
isprovided which to defined contribution pension schemes typically receive a isconsistent with orself-invested pension plans.
pension contribution that provided to or allowance of Executive directors may chose to receive a managers across 5%of salary: cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution.
theGroup and in line however a greater with our strategy to contribution of up keep remuneration to 20% of salary weighted to variable may be made pay that incentivises where necessary to outperformance.
recruit or retain an executive director.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 44 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PURPOSE AND ASSESSMENT OF ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE Annual Annual performance All measures and targets are reviewed Maximum annual Performance is performance bonuses are in place andset by the Committee at the beginning bonus potential reviewed by the bonus short-term to incentivise the ofthe financial year.
Committee using variable delivery of stretching, itsjudgement The bonus scheme has targets based on No bonus is payable near-term business wherenecessary financial measures including profit and cash if the minimum profit targets based on our toassess the and a balanced scorecard.
The balanced gate is not achieved.
achievement scorecard may include financial, employee, oftargets.
These bonuses customer and strategic measures.
The provide a strong link weighting of measures will be determined by The Committee between reward and the Committee each year.
Financial measures retains the performance and drive e. g. profit will represent the majority of the discretion to adjust the creation of further bonus, with other measures representing downwards bonus shareholder value.
payments where achievement of The principles and Bonus payments are subject to a minimum targets would approach are profit gate being achieved before payment result in a payment consistently applied isdue against any objectives achieved.
of a bonus at a across the Group The annual bonus is typically paid in June level which would ensuring alignment based on the audited performance over the not beconsistent to a common vision previous financial year.
with the interests and strategy.
of theCompany With effect from the 201415 financial year They are based on a and its clawback and or malus provisions will be balanced approach shareholders.
introduced to the Groups annual bonus ensuring appropriate scheme enabling performance adjustments Clawback and or behaviours are and or recovery of sums already paid.
malus provisions adopted and will be introduced encouraging a The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and with effect from the longer-term focus.
non-executive directors do not receive 201415 financial anannual performance bonus.
The Committee retains the discretion to establish additional bonus schemes and toset stretching targets focused on the delivery of specific business strategies in theevent of substantial business change.
Mid-term This incentive Executive directors and selected other key Maximum bonus The performance conditions for this incentive plan planwill only be individuals would be eligible to participate potential of up to scheme would be implemented inthis scheme.
based on the shouldthe Merger Pay-outs under this scheme will be made achievement of complete.
only if participants deliver exceptional specific objectives relating to the The purpose performance over and above the successful wouldbe to businessplan.
implementation motivateselected ofthe Merger and key individuals to integration of the deliver specific businesses, such objectives relating asthe delivery of tothe Merger targeted levels andreward them ofsynergies.
It is intended that performance conditions applicable to this scheme will be set at a stretching level with separate and incremental targets to those rewarded by the annual bonus plan.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE continued PURPOSE AND ASSESSMENT OF ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE Mid-term Since the incentive plan implementation of continued this arrangement is contingent on the completion of the Merger, the Committee has not yet finalised the measures and targets.
Further details on the performance conditions will be disclosed to shareholders in next years annual report if the arrangement is implemented following the completion of theMerger.
Long-term Long-term The executive directors participate in the The total pool for Performance will be incentive schemes incentive schemes Carphone Warehouse Share Plan approved distribution to determined by the long-term are transparent by shareholders inJune 2013. participants is Committee against variable and demonstrably subject to a cap of the stretching New executive directors appointed aligned with the 4% of the total issued targets agreed by fromtimeto time may participate in interests of share capital of the shareholders in theCarphone Warehouse Share Plan shareholders over Company on the June2013.
oracomparable plan implemented with the long term.
shareholder approval or the Carphone The schemes Warehouse Share Scheme approved by The Chief Executive reward execution shareholders in 2010 and amended in June Officer allocation is ofour strategy only 2013.
Maximum returns for executive 7% ofthe total pool and when they have directors excluding any buy-out Chief Financial Officer delivered superior arrangements provided for in the allocation is 6%.
value to Recruitment Policy will be consistent with Grants under the shareholders.
existing executive directors and the limits Carphone Warehouse set out in this Policy Table.
Share Scheme are Further details of the Carphone Warehouse subject to overall Share Plan and Carphone Warehouse dilution limits and Share Scheme are provided on page 47. amaximum grant per participant in any financial year of a market value of 300% of basic salary.
Save As You Earn Encourages Executive directors are eligible to Participants can The performance of employees to make participate in all employee share plans.
save up to 250 per the scheme will be a long-term month for either three determined by the An HMRC approved Save As You Earn investment in the or five years.
This share price of the scheme was introduced in the UK in Companys shares limit may be increased Company at the end December 2013 and a comparable scheme and therefore be for future schemes in of the relevant will be launched in Ireland in due course.
aligned to the accordance with the savings period.
long-term success statutory limits in place of the Company.
Atthe end of the savings period participants can purchase shares in the Company based on a discounted share price determined at the commencement of the scheme.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 46 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PURPOSE AND ASSESSMENT OF ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE Share ownership Provides close We recognise that senior employees should Not applicable.
guidelines alignment between hold a minimum level of shares in the Company the longer-term and we currently believe the number of shares interests of executive held by our executive directors as set out in directors and this report satisfies this requirement without shareholders in the need currently to specify a precise minimum terms of the number.
However, this policy will be regularly Companys growth reviewed by the Committee, in particular in and performance.
light of the Merger, and any proposed changes will be set out in next year's report.
LONGTERM INCENTIVES RECRUITMENT POLICY CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE PLAN On appointment, base salary levels will be set taking into account Under the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan, participants share 10% arange of factors including market levels, experience, internal of the incremental value created in CPW in excess of an opening relativities and cost.
If an individual is appointed on a base salary valuation assessed over a three month period prior toapproval below the desired market positioning, the Committee retains the byshareholders in June 2013 and beyond an annual rate of return discretion to re-align base salary over one to three years, contingent of 7% on investedcapital.
The plan is underpinned by a minimum on individual performance, which may result in an exceptional rate annual compound TSR growth of 5% and outperformance of the of annualised increase above ordinary levels.
If the Committee intends median TSR of the FTSE 250. to rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first remuneration report following an individuals appointment.
Other elements of Participants acquired at market value participation shares in a annual remuneration will be inline with the policy set out in the subsidiary company that holds the Companys interests in CPW Policy Table.
As such, short-termvariable remuneration will be Europe.
The Group granted loans to participants at a commercial capped as set out in the Policy Table.
rate of interest to acquire the shares.
Loans are ordinarily repayablein full if performance conditions aremet.
The following exceptions will apply: The performance of the scheme will ordinarily be measured in or in the event that an internal appointment is made or an executive around June 2017, when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% deferred for director joins as a result of a transfer of an undertaking, merger, a further year.
When the awards vest, the value of the shares held reconstruction or similar reorganisation, the Committee retains byparticipants will be based on the incremental value if any of the discretion to continue with existing remuneration provisions CPW in excess of the opening valuation together with the minimum relating to pensions and benefits: return on invested capital.
These shares will then be purchased by as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, the Company for cash and or the Companys ordinary shares.
the Committee retains the discretion to make additional payments linked to relocation: and A bad leaver will be required to transfer the participation shares the Committee retains the discretion to provide an immediate tosuch party as the Company designates for an amount equal to interest in Company performance by making a long-term incentive the total amount outstanding under the loan.
If the market value of award on recruitment in accordance with the Policy Table under the shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any its existing long-term incentive schemes or such future schemes as accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay 20% are introduced by the Company with the approval of its shareholders.
of the shortfall out of their own resources.
The Committee will determine the level of the award, the performance conditions and time horizon that would apply to such awards at A participant shall only be a good leaver atthe sole discretion the time of award, taking into account the strategy and business ofthe Remuneration Committee and may be permitted to retain circumstances of the Company.
anaward notwithstanding the termination oftheir employment.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those The mechanics of the plan may be varied by the Remuneration forthe existing executive directors, summarised in the Recruitment Committee if necessary to ensure that participants are neither Table: however, the Committee may authorise the payment ofa advantaged nor disadvantaged by a variation of the share capital relocation and or repatriation allowance, as well as other associated ofthe Company, bona fide merger, reconstruction or similar international mobility terms and benefits, such as tax equalisation reorganisation.
As part of the Merger, proposals to amend and financial advice.
theplanare set out in the Prospectus and Circular.
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE SCHEME theCommittee may consider buying out bonuses and or incentive The Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme allows nil-priced awards that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment.
The andmarket-priced options to be offered to senior employees Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 or whoare not participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
exceptional limits within the existing shareholder approved share and share option plans to make awards.
If made, the Committee will Options granted in January 2014 are subject to continuing be informed by the structure, time horizons, value and performance employment and are subject to performance conditions based targets associated with any forfeited awards while retaining the discretion onacombination of absolute TSR performance and relative TSR to make any payment or award deemed necessary andappropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee topurchase shares in the Company in accordance with its shareholding policy.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued appointment of a new Chairman not based in the UK, payments REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED relating to relocation and or housing can be considered.
RECRUITMENT POLICY continued With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive Elements of remuneration on appointment are set out in the director, contractual terms will be consistent with those currently Recruitment Table.
Variable pay will not be considered and as such no maximum applies.
With respect to non-executive directors, fees will be consistent A timely announcement with respect to any directors appointment with policy at the time of appointment.
If necessary, to secure the and remuneration will be made to the regulatory news services and posted on the Companys website.
RECRUITMENT TABLE AREA FEATURE POLICY Service contract and Notice period Up to 12 months from either side.
incentive plan provisions Entitlements on termination As summarised in the Policy on Loss ofOffice.
Provisions for mitigation and payment in lieu of notice.
Restrictive covenants Gardening leave provisions.
Non-compete, non-solicitation, non-dealing andconfidentiality provisions.
Variable elements The Committee has the discretion to determine whether anindividual shall participate in any incentive in the year ofappointment.
The Committee shall have the discretion todetermine appropriate bonus performance targets if participating intheyear of appointment.
Annual remuneration Salary To be determined on appointment, taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Salary progression If appointed at below market levels, salary may be re-aligned over the subsequent one to three years subject to performance in role.
In this situation, the Committee reserves the discretion to make increases above ordinary levels.
This initial market positioning and intention to increase pay above the standard rate of increase in the Policy Table subject to performance will bedisclosed in the first remuneration report following appointment.
Pension In line with the Policy Table.
Benefits and allowances In line with the Policy Table.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional benefits as reasonably required.
These may include, but are not restricted to, relocation payments, housing allowances and cost of livingallowances.
Variable pay In line with the Policy Table.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 48 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY ON LOSS OF OFFICE The Remuneration Committee shall retain discretion to make Notice provisions in service contracts will be on terms similar aprorated bonus payment and or payment of a retention bonus tothose for the existing executive directors and shall be up to incircumstances where it would be appropriate to do so having 12months on either side.
regard to the contribution of the director during the financial year, thecircumstances of the departure and the best interests The Company shall have a right to make a payment in lieu of notice oftheCompany.
in respect of basic salary, private medical contributions and pension contributions only for the directors contractual period of notice or, Any entitlements under long-term incentive schemes operated by iftermination is part way through the notice period, the amount the Company shall be determined based on the rules of the relevant relating to any unexpired notice to the date of termination.
The default position under the Carphone Warehouse Share an obligation on directors to mitigate any loss which they may suffer Plan is that awards will lapse on the termination of employment if the Company terminates their service contract.
The Committee unless the Committee exercises the discretion set out in the scheme will take such mitigation obligation into account when determining rules.
The Committee retains the discretion to prevent awards from the amount and timing of any compensation payable to any lapsing depending on the circumstances of the departure and the best departing director.
A director shall also be entitled to a payment in respect of accrued The Committee shall be entitled to exercise its judgement with regard but untaken holiday and any statutory entitlements on termination.
to settlement of potential claims, including but not limited to wrongful No compensation is paid for summary dismissal, save for any dismissal, unfair dismissal, breach of contract and discrimination, statutory entitlements.
where it is appropriate to do so in the interests of the Company andits shareholders.
A director shall be entitled to receive a redundancy payment in circumstances where in the judgement of the Committee they satisfy In the event that any payment is made in relation to termination the statutory tests governing redundancy payments.
Any redundancy foran executive director, this will be fully disclosed in the following payment shall be calculated by reference to the redundancy payments remuneration report.
policy in force for all employees in the UK at the time ofthe redundancy.
A timely announcement with respect to the termination of any If a directors employment terminates prior to the relevant annual bonus directors appointment will be made to the regulatory news services payment date, ordinarily no bonus is payable for that financial year.
and posted on the Companys website.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT REMUNERATION DETAILS The following table summarises key terms from service contracts Deloitte LLP has audited the following items in the Remuneration inplace with directors: other terms are as set out in the Report as stipulated in the regulations: Recruitment Table.
the single total figure of remuneration: Date of contract letter of Notice the directors interests in shares: and appointment period the disclosure of directors interests in the Carphone Warehouse Sir Charles Dunstone 28 January 2010 12 months Share Plan on page 46.
Andrew Harrison 29 October 2013 12 months EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Nigel Langstaff 20 June 2014 12 months The Board supports executive directors taking non-executive Roger Taylor 28 January 2010 6 months directorships as a part of their continuing development, and has John Allwood 28 January 2010 3 months also agreed that the executive directors may retain their fees from such appointments.
The Board has reviewed all such appointments John Gildersleeve 28 January 2010 3 months and concluded that there are no appointments that require Baroness Morgan of Huyton 28 January 2010 3 months disclosure pursuant to the Code.
Gerry Murphy 13 November 2013 3 months Andrew Harrison was appointed to the Board in August 2013 under anew service agreement.
The notice periods for Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff have been increased from six months to 12 months reflecting standard market practice.
Gerry Murphy was appointed tothe Board on 2 April 2014.
There were no other changes to these service contracts during the financial year.
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment substantially in the form suggested by the Code.
The Company hasno age limit for directors.
Any changes to service contracts and appointment letters, including fees, following the Merger will be set out in next year's annual report.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION DETAILS CONTINUED SCENARIO CHARTS The charts below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration for each executive director based on the total opportunity available for the 201415 financial year including anannualised share of the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
ANDREW HARRISON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER NIGEL LANGSTAFF, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 000 000 2,288 2,885 47% 51% 2,195 1,727 42% 46% 1,240 35% 939 33% 18% 35% 20% 33% 3 1,3 41% Long-term incentive Long-term incentive 511 40% 376 Annual variable Annual variable 100% 41% 23% 18% 100% 40% 21% 16% Fixed Fixed Super Super 1 1 2 1 1 2 Minimum Stretch stretch Maximum Minimum Stretch stretch Maximum 1.
Fixed remuneration comprises basic salary, committed taxable benefits and pension contributions.
A nnual variable remuneration represents the annual bonus entitlement.
No bonus is assumed at the minimum performance level.
Stretch performance assumes 50% of the maximum pay-out, super stretch assumes 75% of the maximum pay-out, while maximum assumes 100% of the maximum pay-out.
Long-term incentives relate to the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan, in which the executive directors participate.
This incentive scheme vests in 2017 and 2018, and the total value of scheme has been annualised over a period of five years.
No reward is assumed at the minimum level of performance.
Stretch performance reflects the generation of shareholder returns of 0.5bn over the term ofthescheme, while super stretch performance reflects the generation of 1bn of incremental returns on the same basis.
Maximum performance is fixed at the point at which the dilution cap of 4% associated with the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan is expected to apply, being 1.3bn of incremental shareholder returns over the term of the scheme.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS IN THE GROUP INDEVELOPINGPOLICY With the exception of the salary increases reflecting the Companys In 2013 we undertook an extensive consultation exercise with our increased profile following the CPW Europe Acquisition, no increase to shareholders to seek their views on the Carphone Warehouse Share the remuneration of the executive directors is proposed.
As a result of this feedback a number of changes were made to the this conclusion the Remuneration Committee was mindful that on scheme design, including the introduction of a cap, greater transparency average, the pay increase for other UK employees is approximately regarding the opening value calculation and the introduction 2%.
Whilst employees were not formally consulted on executive ofshareholding guidelines.
remuneration a number of them are shareholders and as such are able to exercise their influence: we also monitor our employee discussion boards and employee forums to ensure employee feedback in general is considered in all our strategy execution.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION Basic salary Taxable Pension Annual Total fees benefits contributions bonuses 2014 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Charles Dunstone 240 240 Andrew Harrison 317 8 15 339 679 Roger Taylor 293 5 7 305 Nigel Langstaff 325 10 16 375 726 John Allwood 74 74 John Gildersleeve 81 81 Baroness Morgan of Huyton 60 60 Gerry Murphy Andrew Harrison joined the board on 1 August 2013.
His remuneration presented above is for the period for which he was a director.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 50 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic salary Taxable Pension Annual Total fees benefits contributions bonuses 2013 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Charles Dunstone 240 240 Roger Taylor 440 12 22 484 958 Nigel Langstaff 275 10 14 303 602 John Allwood 62 62 John Gildersleeve 79 79 Baroness Morgan of Huyton 55 55 No long-term incentive schemes vested during the year.
The share schemes approved by shareholders in June 2013 vest in 2017 60% and2018 40%.
Loans of 0.4m and 0.3m were granted to Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff respectively to enable them to subscribe for shares under those schemes as described on page 47.
No payments were made to former directors and no payments for loss of office were made during the year.
ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND AWARDS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 201314 As a percentage of maximum Measure bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Actual Pay-out 1 Pro forma Headline EBIT m 50% 140m 170m 151m 31% 2 Reduction in average net debt 20% 25m 100m Missed Number of markets achieving 7.5% 5 or more As threshold Missed astretching employee markets out of 7 engagement target Number of markets 7.5% 5 or more As threshold Achieved 7.5% achievingastretching markets out of 7 customer NPS target Personal targets based on 15% Discretionary Discretionary Maximum 15% thedelivery of key elements ofbusiness strategy 1.
Reduction in average net debt after applying adjustments in relation to the CPW Europe Acquisition and other oneoff items at the discretion of the Committee.
A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the start ofthe financial year, apart from the customer and employee engagement objectives which are either achieved or not met.
2014 2013 FEES FOR NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 000 000 The fees for the independent non-executive directors are determined by the Board excluding non-executive directors after considering Chair of Audit Committee 15 15 external market research, and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Member of Audit Committee 5 4 Factors taken into consideration include the required time commitment, specific experience and or qualifications.
A base fee is payable and Chair of Nomination Committee 8 5 additional fees are paid for chairing and membership of committees.
Member of Nomination Committee 5 4 Non-executive directors receive no variable pay and receive Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 10 noadditionalbenefits.
Member of Remuneration Committee 5 4 Sir Charles Dunstone and Roger Taylor are employed by the Chair of Consumer Regulatory Company and their pay is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee andCompliance Committee 3 as part of the executive director pay review.
John Gildersleeve will also receive an additional fee, consistent with For the 201415 financial year, independent non-executive directors the years to March 2014 and March 2013, of 17,000, in recognition will receive a basic fee of 45,000 2014: 43,000 and additional fees of his serving part of the period as deputy chairman and for additional for chairing or membership of committees.
The increase in fees services he carried out during the period in his capacity as a non-executive paid tonon-executive directors reflects the increased profile director.
John Allwood will also receive an additional fee of 15,000 oftheCompany following the CPW Europe Acquisition.
in his capacity as Senior Independent Director, continuing the arrangement since his appointment to that role.
LONGTERM INCENTIVES Shareholders approved twonew incentive schemes during the year, information on which is provided on page 47.
Details of the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan and Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme and thegrants made to Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff are set out inthe Policy Table.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued The following table sets out the voting results in relation to the REMUNERATION DETAILS CONTINUED resolution to approve the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION atthegeneral meeting in June 2013: The percentage change in remuneration in the 201314 financial year compared with the prior year for the Companys Chief Executive Votes cast Number % Officer and for all UK head office-based employees is shown below.
For 395,813,705 96.0 Changes in salary relating to changes in roles and or responsibilities have been excluded from the increase presented for the wider group Against 16,663,325 4.0 inorder toprovide alike-for-like comparison.
Total 412,477,030 Chief Chosen group Withheld 16,650 Executive of other Officer employees Salary and fees 5% 2% The following table sets out the voting results in relation to the Remuneration Report at the annual general meeting in July 2013: Taxable benefits n a n a Votes cast Number % Annual bonuses 28% 16% For 413,724,142 96.4 Taxable benefits have not been separately measured since there have been no Against 15,371,547 3.6 material changes in Group benefits year-on-year.
Total 429,095,689 To ensure comparability, the Chief Executive Officers salary in the Withheld 6,216,641 table above excludes long-term incentive schemes.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURE FOR FINANCIAL The following table sets out both the total cost of remuneration YEAR 201415 forthe Group compared with pro forma Headline EBIT and profits The annual bonus for the 201415 financial year will operate on a distributed for the 201314 financial year and the prior year.
similar basis as for the 201314 financial year and will be consistent with the policy detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report.
The measures have been selected to reflect our key strategic objectives 354 351 and are aligned to our Group balanced scorecard, with a minimum profit gate that must be achieved before any bonus is paid out.
The performance measures and weighting will be as follows: 151 132 As a percentage 2014 30 of maximum 23 Measure bonus opportunity 2013 Total Pro forma Ordinary employee pay Headline EBIT dividends paid Headline EBIT 50% m pence m Reduced net debt 20% CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING Customer NPS 7.5% TO REMUNERATION Employee engagement 7.5% The Committee retained Towers Watson throughout 201314 as independent advisers.
Towers Watson is engaged to provide advice Personal targets focused on delivery to the Committee and to work with the directors on matters relating ofbusiness strategy 15% to the Groups executive remuneration and its long-term incentives.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group The proposed target levels for financial year 201415 have been set and operates under its code of conduct in relation to the provision of to be challenging relative to the business plan.
The targets themselves, executive remuneration advice in the UK.
Towers Watson has confirmed as they relate to the 201415 financial year, are deemed to be that it adhered to the Code throughout 201314 for all remuneration commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the services provided to the Group.
Towers Watson received fees of targets and performance against them will be provided in next 84,000 in relation to the provision of those services.
The Committee years Remuneration Report tothe extent that they do not may also take external legal advice, where required, to assist it in remaincommercially sensitive atthattime.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance withthe Regulations, the relevant Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Code.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the Code.
In framing itsRemuneration Policy the Remuneration Committee has given full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code.
TheCompany is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue in respect of directors remuneration, and takes an active interest invoting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions, explanatory reasons will be sought, and any actions inresponse will be communicated to shareholders.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 52 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE GRAPH DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The graph shows the Groups performance measured through TSR, Details of directors interests in shares of the Company compared with the FTSE 250 Index, since 29 March 2010 when the at31March2014 are shown in the following table: Company was first admitted to the London Stock Exchange following the Demerger.
The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it is a broad Ordinary shares market which includes competitors of the Company.
2014 2013 Sir Charles Dunstone 135,083,481 132,833,481 580 Andrew Harrison 5,000,000 n a 530 Nigel Langstaff 3,654,180 3,609,180 Roger Taylor 9,808,554 9,693,554 480 John Allwood 10,000 10,000 430 John Gildersleeve 122,568 123,000 Baroness Morgan of Huyton 991 991 380 Gerry Murphy 330 In order to participate in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff have also subscribed for 700 and 600 participation shares 280 respectively in New CPW Limited.
230 We recognise that senior employees should hold a minimum level ofshares in the Company and we currently believe the number of 180 shares held by our executive directors as set out in this report satisfies this requirement without the need currently to specify a precise 130 minimum number.
However, this policy will be regularly reviewed by the Committee, in particular in light of the Merger and any proposed 80 changes will be set out in next year's Remuneration Report.
Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 COMPLIANCE As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve this Carphone Warehouse FTSE 250 Index Remuneration Report will be proposed at the annual general Group plc meeting tobeheld on 23 July 2014.
This report was approved by the Board on 25 June 2014.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY The following table shows the Chief Executive Officers single total figure ofremuneration, the amount of bonus earned asa percentage John Gildersleeve Chairman, Remuneration Committee of the maximum remuneration possible, and the vesting of long-term awards as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have vested where applicable.
Long-term Annual incentive bonus vesting CEO single pay-out rates against total figure of against maximum 1 remuneration maximum opportunity Year 000 % % 2014 Andrew Harrison 679 54% n a 3 Roger Taylor 159 n a n a Total 845 n a 2013 Roger Taylor 958 55% n a 2 2012 Roger Taylor 474 0% n a 2011 Roger Taylor 1,193 82% n a 1.
E xcludes remuneration received from long-term incentive schemes established by Old Carphone Warehouse prior to the Demerger because thatcompany is not part of the current Group.
Details of remuneration associated with Old Carphone Warehouse incentive schemes were provided in the Companys annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Future reports will include long-term incentives operated by the current Group when they have vested.
Future reports will also reflect any necessary changes if the Merger completes.
In 2012 Roger Taylor waived a bonus of 25% of maximum potential andinstead chose for it to be paid directly to charity.
The amount quoted relates only to remuneration received whilst Roger Taylor held the position of Chief Executive Officer.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 53
