56 Governance Directors remuneration report Statement by Chair of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Groups first Directors remuneration report following our Admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
This report sets out our Remuneration Policy and reward outcomes for 2014.
The IPO gave us an opportunity to create anew reward approach based on what customers told us, our values and alignment with our business strategy.
We believe our TSB reward approach is different from the mainstream and right for this stage of our development.
The opportunity The Group was created with acore purpose of bringing more competition to UK banking.
A new reward approach To inform our decisions on building the Group, we listened to feedback from customers about how they viewed the which is designed to banking industry.
Some 70% of responding customers said their perception of banking was negatively influenced by what be simple and fair and theyknew about bank pay and bonuses.
deliver shareholder value Our challenge was therefore to create an alternative remuneration approach that reflected the type of bank by putting customer we aim to be and demonstrated we were listening to our service at the heart of customers, colleagues and shareholders.
To aid our thinking we considered current remuneration models in the financial everything we do.
services sector, the wider marketplace and, in particular, in businesses where good customer service is key and the operating model is based on the concept of partnership.
Wenow refer to those who work for TSB as Partners.
Our approach We want our reward approach to be simple and fair, putting customer service at the heart of what we do.
We believe we will best deliver shareholder value by focusing on sustainable business growth and rewarding behaviours that are consistent with our values.
For these reasons we have chosen the following principles tounderpin our approach: Reward should be transparent, fair and market competitive.
Our reward policies should be clear and consistent so that all our stakeholders can readily understand them.
We believe this will help us to hire and retain Partners who share our vision, values and commitment to great customer service.
Remuneration should reward sustained performance over time.
The measures which underpin our remuneration schemes reward profitability, good customer service and the long term health of the Group.
Final outcomes also take account of our assessment of how well risk, conduct and compliance issues are managed.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The reward structure should be balanced.
We have created Forour ExecutiveDirectors the target annual grant will what we believe is the right balance of fixed to variable be at 62.5% of basic salary with amaximum 100% remuneration, inyear to deferred remuneration and cash possible and aminimum of 0%.
Final grants are always to share based remuneration.
We believe the balance we subject to the Committees assessment of corporate have struck in these areas is right for the Groups business and individual performance against predetermined philosophy and stage of development whilst also complying targets.
The award will vest in tranches over afive with relevant regulation.
year period subject to the achievement of sustainable corporate and individual performance conditions.
Our reward practices should build apartnership culture For our Executive Directors 70% ofthe awardwill embracing all Partners.
We encourage share ownership be delivered in TSB shares and 30% in cash.
for all Partners, offering various ways in which they can become TSB shareholders and Partners in the success of Market competitive benefits, principally pension the business.
All Partners were granted 100 of TSB shares contributionsto adefined contribution scheme or, on listing through the TSB Share Incentive Plan SIP and whereappropriate, an equivalent cash payment: 4% were designated Partners in the Group.
New joiners post of basicsalary available to use in our flexible benefits listing are similarly granted 100 in TSB shares.
Partners offering: and anemployer provided car or alternative are required to retain these shares in order to be eligible to cashcar allowance.
participate in the TSB Award.
Executive Directors are also subject to shareholding The key elements of our new reward approach for our most guidelines which they are obliged to meet over time.
senior Partners are as follows: This structure is very different from that which our We will not exceed an annual cap on total variable ExecutiveDirectors received while TSB was still part of remuneration of one times fixed pay basic salary plus LBG and represents are-balance in our total compensation other benefits calculated in accordance with the PRAs mix.
For example, it significantly reduces the level of variable remuneration code.
remuneration opportunity and generates alower maximum earnings potential than they were eligible to receive under Basic salary provides core remuneration taking into account theirLBG terms.
To ensure our new remuneration package relevant market benchmarks, complexity of the role and the was appropriately positioned against the external market individuals experience and performance.
and against the legacy LBG arrangements, we reviewed the basic salaries of our Executive Directors initially on listing The TSB Award, which provides an ontarget annual award and subsequently in order to review the effectiveness of our opportunity of 10% of basic salary and applies to every approach.
We will continue to look carefully at the appropriate Partner in the Group, from the Chief Executive Officer to levels of basic salary for our most senior Partners to ensure that those on the front line.
The 10% ontarget core award fund we are able todeliver acompetitive level of total remuneration.
could increase, in an exceptional year, to amaximum core award of 15% of basic salaries.
In any given year the very The Executive Directors and the wider leadership team best performers could receive up to twice the core award.
have supported this new approach and its alignment to The Committee will review and approve annually both the ourgoals and values.
size of the TSB Award spend and the individual awards beingproposed for the Executive Directors.
Shareholder consultation Part of our commitment to transparency and fairness is to The Sustainable Performance Award SPA is designed maintain an open and constructive dialogue with shareholders to support achievement of targets based on sustained on remuneration issues.
In the course of the IPO and the business and personal performance.
This award will be months that followed I and executive colleagues met many of granted annually to alimited number of senior Partners our largest shareholders and advisory bodies to explain our and is funded, if sufficient profit is made, after the TSB approach and to listen to their views.
We look forward to further Award and risk management gateways have been satisfied.
shareholder feedback on our Directors remuneration report and will continue to offer regular opportunities for dialogue on remuneration.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Rewarding performance in 2014 Future policy 2014 was aunique year of change for TSB.
It required strong In the period following listing, we undertook areview of leadership, engagement and commitment from all our Partners, Executive Directors basic salaries against the external market.
including our Executive Directors and the other Bank Executive As we committed in the Prospectus the Chief Executive Committee members.
Officers basic salary will remain at 700,000 and will not be reviewed before January 2016 when we expect to undertake Prior to Admission our Executive Directors were employed areview of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration.
under LBG terms and conditions.
As such, they were eligible for abonus under the legacy LBG bonus arrangement for this After reviewing the Chief Financial Officers basic salary portion of the year, based on TSB performance prior to listing.
against relevant market data and taking account of his excellent We have sought to replicate the appropriate level of award performance over the year the Committee decided to increase for that period.
his basic salary from 450,000 to 535,000 with effect from 1 April 2015.
This has moved his remuneration closer Under TSBs new approach the Committee has determined to the market median benchmark.
It will be subject to further an ontarget TSB Award of 10% of basic salary pro rata and review next year.
based on the post-listing period should be awarded and aSPA grant of 90% of basic salary based on performance over the Full details of our new Directors remuneration policy are full year should be made in early 2015.
The SPA will vest in outlined in the Policy report on page 59 which, if approved by annual tranches over five years only if sustainable performance shareholders at our AGM in April 2015, is proposed to apply targets are met.
for at least one year following adoption.
The key 2014 reward outcomes for the Executive Directors The Committee is conscious that these are pioneering policies were as follows: in an ever changing regulatory landscape.
We pay particular attention to how our policies work in practice to understand TSB Award SPA award grant whether there are any challenges or opportunities which Legacy LBG bonus listing to 1 January to need to be addressed.
Should the Committee conclude that 1 January 2014 31 December 31December tolisting 2014 2014 there are changes required we will incorporate any proposals when we seek shareholders approval for them at AGMs Paul Pester 377,000 36,167 630,000 in future years.
Darren Pope 181,250 23,250 405,000 SPA award will be granted in early 2015 and will only vest to the extent that In conclusion, I commend the first TSB Remuneration Policy performance is sustained as assessed on each of the five anniversaries of the award.
Report and annual Remuneration Report to you and trust they Further details of the Committees assessment of 2014 performance outcomes are will earn your support.
Dame Sandra Dawson Chair, Remuneration Committee TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
