56 Governance Directors remuneration report Statement by Chair of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Groups first Directors remuneration report following our Admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
This report sets out our Remuneration Policy and reward outcomes for 2014.
The IPO gave us an opportunity to create anew reward approach based on what customers told us, our values and alignment with our business strategy.
We believe our TSB reward approach is different from the mainstream and right for this stage of our development.
The opportunity The Group was created with acore purpose of bringing more competition to UK banking.
A new reward approach To inform our decisions on building the Group, we listened to feedback from customers about how they viewed the which is designed to banking industry.
Some 70% of responding customers said their perception of banking was negatively influenced by what be simple and fair and theyknew about bank pay and bonuses.
deliver shareholder value Our challenge was therefore to create an alternative remuneration approach that reflected the type of bank by putting customer we aim to be and demonstrated we were listening to our service at the heart of customers, colleagues and shareholders.
To aid our thinking we considered current remuneration models in the financial everything we do.
services sector, the wider marketplace and, in particular, in businesses where good customer service is key and the operating model is based on the concept of partnership.
Wenow refer to those who work for TSB as Partners.
Our approach We want our reward approach to be simple and fair, putting customer service at the heart of what we do.
We believe we will best deliver shareholder value by focusing on sustainable business growth and rewarding behaviours that are consistent with our values.
For these reasons we have chosen the following principles tounderpin our approach: Reward should be transparent, fair and market competitive.
Our reward policies should be clear and consistent so that all our stakeholders can readily understand them.
We believe this will help us to hire and retain Partners who share our vision, values and commitment to great customer service.
Remuneration should reward sustained performance over time.
The measures which underpin our remuneration schemes reward profitability, good customer service and the long term health of the Group.
Final outcomes also take account of our assessment of how well risk, conduct and compliance issues are managed.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
