Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Report on Directors Remuneration Remuneration Committee ChairmansStatement Dear Shareholder During 2015 we intend to make additional changes to the way in which we implement our Remuneration Policy.
In future our The external environment has continued to be very Executive Directors will be set individual bonus targets within challenging although the impact has been substantially the current approved range of operating profits.
Our Chief mitigated by the cost reduction programme undertaken Executive will be entitled to receive a bonus of 1.825 2.175% during the course of the year.
As a consequence underlying of Bonus Pool Operating Profit and our Finance Director will be operating margins have been protected.
The ratio of broker entitled to a bonus of 0.675-0.825% of Bonus Pool Operating compensation to revenue has fallen again from 58.3% Profit.
Within these ranges bonuses will be awarded according to56.1%.
to individual performances measured against individual In 2013 and early 2014 we conducted a very extensive targets and objectives.
The Committee believes that this consultation exercise with shareholders prior to the approval change will enhance individual accountability and further ofthe Remuneration Policy at the AGM in 2014.
This year, align our Remuneration Policy with the Companys strategy.
operating within the terms of the Remuneration Policy, we We are currently considering an arrangement to introduce have continued to take full account of shareholders views.
anelement of share based remuneration for senior staff in2015 in order to align better the interests of senior staff As part of the recruitment process of our new Chief Executive andshareholders.
we took the opportunity to reassess base salary, which was reduced from 650,000 pa to 550,000 pa.
In prior years the discretionary bonus pool was calculated Stephen Pull based on operating profits before taking account of any Chairman reorganisation costs.
Although at the time we felt there Remuneration Committee wasagood business rationale for this, a small number of 3 March 2015 shareholders commented that if such costs were incurred in future it might be more appropriate to calculate the bonus pool after restructuring costs.
For 2014, the Remuneration Committee determined that the operating profit used to Decisions for 2014 calculate the bonus pool for the Executive Directors, the Contract negotiations for new Chief Executive: Bonus Pool Operating Profit, would be based on the Departure arrangements for Terry Smith: reported operating profit, after exceptional items, excluding the operating profit earned in 2014 from PVM which was Aggregate bonus pool award below range set out in our acquired towards the end of November, and adding back the Remuneration Policy: and charge relating to the impairment of goodwill attributed to Agreed a new distribution of the bonus pool for 2015 with the business in Brazil.
This latter adjustment is consistent with specific objectives for each Executive Director.
the approach taken in previous years when the Committee hasexercised its discretion to exclude goodwill impairment charges.
The Bonus Pool Operating Profit for 2014 of 53.8mcompares with the Bonus Pool Operating Profit for2013 of 100.2m.
Although Terry Smith, our former Chief Executive, did not retire until 31 August 2014 he received no discretionary bonus for 2014.
The departure arrangements for Terry Smith are discussed on page 44.
The Committee has therefore decided that in this unusual circumstance the aggregate bonus pool should fall below the usual range of 2.5 - 3.0% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit and has awarded a bonus pool of 1.032m equivalent to1.92% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 35 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Governance As required by the Remuneration Code, an annual central The role of the Remuneration Committee andindependent review of compliance with policies and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Stephen Pull.
The procedures for remuneration adopted by the Company was other members of the Remuneration Committee throughout undertaken.
This work, conducted by KPMG the Companys the year were Angela Knight, Roger Perkin and David Shalders internal auditor, provided the Remuneration Committee who was appointed on 27 February 2014.
All members of the withan independent assessment of compliance with the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-executive Remuneration Code and supported the Remuneration Directors.
Committees conclusion that the Company continues to The Remuneration Committee is responsible on behalf of the comply with the Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Board for developing and maintaining formal and transparent PolicyStatement, including the list of Remuneration Code policies on remuneration for the Companys employees, the staff, has been reviewed, and the disclosures required to be framework in which that policy is applied, and its cost.
In made under the Remuneration Codehave been approved.
addition, the Remuneration Committee regularly reviews These disclosures are available onthe Companys website, remuneration policies to ensure that they continue to be www.
compliant with the relevant corporate governance and The Report on Directors Remuneration has been prepared in regulatory requirements, including the Remuneration Code.
accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, Board, for: the UKLA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys members on certain parts of the Report on Companys remuneration policies: Directors Remuneration and to state whether in their opinion considering the relationship between incentives and risk: those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with theregulations.
determining the application of the Companys remuneration policies to the Executive Directors: The Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, theDirectors Remuneration Policy and certain parts of the reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration indicated in that report policies to Senior Management, Brokers and Control areunaudited.
Functions: determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and Definitions used in this report theChairman: Executive Director means any executive member of the Board: approving the remuneration of Senior Management after consultation with the Chief Executive: Senior Management means those members of the Companys Executive Committee other than the Executive approving all share and long term incentive schemes and Directors and the first level of management below that level: their application: and Broker means front office revenue generators: reviewing and approving the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Control Functions means those employees engaged in functions such as Compliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are and Risk Control: available on the Companys website, www.
Remuneration Code means the Remuneration Code of the The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the FCA: and Remuneration Committee by invitation.
The Chairman and theExecutive Directors are not permitted to be in attendance 2013 Regulations means the Large and Medium-sized when any matter relating to their own remuneration is Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment beingdiscussed.
During 2014 the Remuneration Committee also undertook theregular tasks of approving the remuneration of Senior Management and addressing the Companys obligations under the Remuneration Code which apply to the Company and its FCA regulated subsidiaries which remain in the lowest category for the purposes of the Remuneration Code classified as Proportionality Level Three including reviewing the remuneration of all Remuneration Code staff.
36 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy was subject to a shareholders Risk binding vote at the 2014 AGM and it is not proposed that the The Remuneration Committee considered the relationship current policy is revised at the 2015 AGM.
The remuneration between incentives and risk when approving remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM can also be found on the policy which will apply throughout the Group.
com, pages 35 and 36 Details of the Companys key risks and risk management of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. aresetout in the Strategic Report of this Annual Report on Background pages 4to 23.
The majority of transactions are brokered on a In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Name Passing basis where the business is not a counterparty Companys remuneration policy which apply throughout to a trade.
theGroup, the Remuneration Committee took account of the Commissions earned on these activities are received monthly corporate objective to maximise returns to shareholders over in cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
not hold principal trading positions.
The business only holds TheRemuneration Committee was mindful that the Groups financial instruments for identified buyers and sellers in strategy to achieve that objective is to continue to develop its matching trades which are generally settled within 1-3 days.
business, operating as an intermediary in the worlds major The business does not retain any contingent market or wholesale OTC and exchange traded financial and commodity counterparty risks.
The business does not have valuation markets, with the scale and breadth to deliver superior issues in measuring its profits.
performance and returns, underpinned by strong financial management disciplines and without actively taking credit The Remuneration Committee concluded that the Companys and market risk.
remuneration policy reflects the low risk profile of the Company, is consistent with and promotes sound and effective The Remuneration Committee took into account general risk management, and does not encourage risk taking.
practices in the parts of the financial services sector in whichthe Company operates, and in particular those of the The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys Companys competitors which include BGC Partners Inc, remuneration policy is consistent with the measures set out GFIGroup Inc, ICAP plc and Compagnie Financire Tradition.
inthe businesss compliance manuals relating to conflicts Thesepractices are characterised by high levels of variable ofinterest.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that The Companys policy is to ensure that variable remuneration it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders to is not paid through vehicles or methods that facilitate pay remuneration in line with market practice in the sectors avoidance of the Remuneration Code.
in which the Company operates.
Policy table The Companys remuneration policy is designed to attract, The policy which has been applied in respect of Executive motivate and retain staff with the necessary skills and Director and Non-executive Director remuneration is experience to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the summarised in the table below.
The policy set out in this table Companys objective.
isthat which is currently in practice and which was subject to a binding vote of shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the 2013 Regulations, the policy applies from the 2014 AGM.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 37 Report on Directors Remuneration continued How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term Recovery strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework withholding Executive Directors Fixed remuneration To provide a level of Paid monthly in arrears.
Reviewed Fixed remuneration None None fixed remuneration periodically to ensure not significantly will not be reviewed reflecting the scope of out of line with the market.
until 2017. individual responsibilities to attract and retain high calibre individuals Benefits To provide basic benefits Medical cover and participation in any No new benefits will None None but otherwise to avoid schemes for all UK employees such as beintroduced during provision of benefits the group life insurance scheme.
the term of this Remuneration Policy, Relocation or the temporary provision unless such benefits of accommodation may be offered aremade available to where the Company requires a allUK employees.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive other reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice.
Pension To make basic pension Membership of a defined contribution 6% of fixed None None provision pension scheme.
remuneration up to a cap set at 105,600.
Annual discretionary bonus Aim is to motivate Allocation of pool takes account of The maximum Pool is 2.5-3% of Group Clawback of andretain Executive individual contribution and relative aggregate Executive reported operating profit, theelement of Directors, consistent responsibilities.
No payment is made Directors bonus is 3% provided operating profit bonus subject with the risk appetite ifthe Remuneration Committee is not of Group reported exceeds a threshold toinvestment determined by the Board satisfied with personal performance.
No operating profit, rising calculatedas the weighted requirement and thereby to achieve contractual entitlement to a bonus if the to 5% in the event that average cost of capital times inthe event superior returns for Executive Director is not in employment one or more new the average capital employed.
It provides or is under notice on the payment date.
Executive Directors are In exceptional circumstances misstatement a direct link between the appointed.
Operating payments may be made ofresults for Directors must invest 50% of achievement of annual profit may not exceed outside this range.
theperiod to post-taxannual bonuses in the business performance 150% of the operating Adjustments may be made which the bonus Companys shares for three years targets andreward profit used to calculate inrelation to significant related which theinvestment requirement.
This the previous years acquisitions.
caused the The shareholding investment requirement can be met, bonus.
In exceptional bonus to be paid requirements align in part or in full, by ordinary shares The pool may be extended circumstances at too high a Directors interests already held, excluding any shares toa maximum of 5% of payments may be level or if an withshareholders already being counted towards reported operating profit made outside this Executive investment requirements in relation toaccommodate one or more range.
Adjustments Directors toprevious bonus payments.
In may be made in conduct is found such circumstances, the relation to significant to amount to existing Executive Directors acquisitions.
gross misconduct will not be entitled to and or fraud, participate in the additional wilful dishonesty pool.
38 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term Recovery strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework withholding Minimum shareholding Aligns Directors Directors must hold a minimum None None None interests with number of the Companys ordinary shareholders by focusing shares equivalent to 300% of basic on longer term salary in respect of the Chief shareholder returns Executive and 150% of basic salary for all other Executive Directors.
Shares acquired to meet the investment requirement attaching to annual bonuses can be used to meet this requirement.
LTIS Aligns Directors Annual awards equivalent to the Maximum is as Performance conditions are The level of interests with higher of aggregate basic salary described in the measured over a period of at vesting of an shareholders by focusing and25% of the prior year aggregate Operation column.
award may on longer term variable remuneration or basic salary bereduced, Performance conditions are shareholder returns for a new Executive Director of including to 50% based on TSR relative to Executive Directors in office at the nil, in the event FTSE 250 companies date of the award.
Awards are of a material excluding investment trusts, satisfied in cash when all relevant misstatement 25% based on average cash performance conditions have ofresults that flow before dividends and beenmeasured.
caused the LTIS debt repayments and 25% award to be based on ROE relative to granted at too IDBcompetitors.
high a level or ifan Executive For each element of the Directors award, vesting starts at 25% conduct is found at threshold performance to amount to rising on a straightline basis gross misconduct to 100% for maximum and or fraud, performance.
wilful dishonesty or accounting malfeasance.
Non-executive Directors Fees To attract high calibre, Paid monthly in arrears.
Periodically Aggregate annual fees None None experienced Nonbenchmarked against other UK listed limited to 700,000 executive Directors companies of comparable size and inthe Articles of activities.
additional responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, for chairing each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees or other services performed such as acting as a trustee of a Company pension scheme.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 39 Report on Directors Remuneration continued During 2013, the Remuneration Committee introduced a cap Notes to the policy table onExecutive Directors bonuses in response to requests from Performance measures shareholders.
However, the Remuneration Committee does The annual discretionary bonus payable to Executive Directors notbelieve that the formal capping of bonuses for Senior is calculated as a percentage of reported operating profit.
Management and Brokers is consistent with the delivery of Theoperation of the Executive Director bonus scheme was enhanced returns to shareholders and accordingly no caps have changed in 2013 following the Remuneration Committees been introduced on Senior Managements or Brokers bonuses.
review of Executive Director remuneration and shareholder consultation.
Operating profit is a key performance indicator, Executive Directors variable remuneration is also subject to a is a clear and simple metric and was chosen as it links requirement that at least 50% net of tax of bonus payments remuneration directly with business performance.
The must be invested in the Companys shares to be held for a percentage range of profit allocated to the bonus scheme minimum period of at least three years.
waschosen to provide an acceptable level of variable Clawback arrangements apply to this element of variable remuneration for the Executive Directors while at the remuneration for the duration of the investment requirement.
sametime delivering value to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that given The introduction of the new LTIS in 2013 also followed the theCompanys low risk profile and the fact that this is review of Executive Director remuneration referred to above.
notconsistent with market practice in the Companys key competitor organisations, neither deferral nor clawback Performance measures used for the LTIS were chosen by arrangements are applied to variable remuneration paid theRemuneration Committee, with advice having been toother staff.
provided by PwC and following consultation with significant shareholders.
The relative TSR measure had been used as a The LTIS has been put in place for the benefit of the Executive metric for the LTIP for several years and despite its many well Directors only.
recognised limitations, shareholders were keen for it to be Remuneration policies for Brokers retained as a substantial component of the metrics for the The Companys remuneration policy for Brokers is based on LTIS.
Half of LTIS awards are therefore subject to the relative theprinciple that remuneration is directly based on financial TSR performance measure.
However, the Remuneration performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated in Committee was also concerned to incorporate new metrics to accordance with formulae set out in contracts of employment.
target and reward good operating performance measured by These formulae take into account the fixed costs of the Brokers, reference to the Companys cash flow generation, and return and variable remuneration payments are therefore based on on equity compared with the Companys IDB competitors.
the profits that the Brokers generate for the business.
Initial Both metrics are regarded by the Board as keyperformance contract payments are only paid upfront when a claw-back indicators.
One quarter of LTIS awards are accordingly subject provision is included in the contract of employment.
Typically, to these performance conditions respectively.
The targets Brokers receive a fixed salary paid regularly throughout the were set, having regard to recent performance and at a level year, with a significant proportion of variable remuneration which would be seen to be achievable but at the same time dependent on revenue, which is paid after the revenue has could be expected to be challenging.
been fully received in cash.
Policy on Directors remuneration compared with Remuneration policies for Control Functions employees generally The Companys remuneration policy for Control Functions As a general rule, the same principles are applied to Directors isthat remuneration is adequate to attract qualified and fixed remuneration, pension contributions and benefits as experienced staff, is in accordance with the achievement of areapplied to employees throughout the organisation.
A objectives linked to their functions, and is independent of the competitive level of fixed remuneration is paid to all staff performance of the business areas they support.
Employees in taking into account their responsibilities and experience and such functions report through an organisation structure that minimal pension provision and benefits are provided, the is separate to and independent from the business units.
Heads Board considering that employees are best placed to of Control Functions are designated as Remuneration Code determine priorities for funds set aside for remuneration.
staff and accordingly their remuneration is reviewed by the There are a number of different bonus schemes in operation Remuneration Committee.
throughout the Group for Brokers, management and other employees.
Brokers bonus schemes are described below: all other bonuses are generally discretionary.
40 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Illustrations of the application of remuneration Executive Directors service agreements and policy updated for 2015 loss of office entitlements The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors The Executive Directors contracts may be terminated by foraminimum, target and maximum performance for 2015 eitherparty on the expiry of 12 months written notice save ispresented in the charts below: in circumstances justifying summary termination, or by making a payment in lieu of notice at the Companys election.
John Phizackerley The Company will consider the scope for requiring the Executive 4,000 Director to mitigate his loss when taking account of all the circumstances surrounding the termination of employment.
The Executive Director would also be entitled to accrued but 2,960 3,000 untaken holiday.
22% The contracts do not provide for termination payments in 2,348 excess of salary and contractual benefits.
Post-termination 14% 2,000 restrictive covenants also apply to each Executive Director.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of 59% 63% office, any employee including the Executive Directors may have additional statutory and or common law rights to certain 1,000 additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
550 When determining payments for loss of office, the Company 23% 19% 100% will take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by 0 Minimum Target Maximum case basis including but not limited to : the contractual notice Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS provisions and outstanding holiday: the best interests of the Company: whether the Executive Director has presided over Paul Mainwaring an orderly handover: the contribution of the Executive 4,000 Director to the success of the Company during their tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have or to pay the Executive Directors legal costs on a settlement agreement.
3,000 The LTIS rules provide for an award to lapse where an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment withaGroup company other than through death, although 2,000 the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest to the extent that the performance 1,261 conditions have been met other than in circumstances 19% 1,017 involving gross misconduct, fraud, willful dishonesty or 1,000 12% 53% accounting malfeasance, and, unless the Remuneration 54% 350 Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating fortime.
34% 28% 100% 0 Non-executive Directors appointment letters Minimum Target Maximum The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS appointment which are terminable on the earliest of the Director not being re-elected at an AGM, removed as a As the variable remuneration calculation is based on a director or required to vacate office under the Articles of percentage of reported operating profit, the Board has prepared Association, on resignation, at the request of the Board or the above illustrations using Bonus Pool Operating Profit in subject to 12 months notice.
2014 capped at 150% to avoid including a profit forecast.
Recruitment of Directors Outside directorships The Remuneration Committees approach to setting The Board recognises that external non-executive remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that appointments and certain other business appointments are theCompany pays market rates, with reference to internal beneficial both to Executive Directors and the Company.
paylevels, the external market, location of the executive andremuneration received from the previous employer.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any remuneration in connection with such appointments.
Salary will be provided in line with market rates, and the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate pension and benefit arrangements, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
On-going variable pay awards for a newly appointed Executive Director will be as described in the Policy table, subject to the Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 41 000 000 Report on Directors Remuneration continued same maximum opportunities.
It is not currently intended that Relocation payments may also be set, within limits to future service contracts for Executive Directors would contain bedetermined by the Remuneration Committee, where terms differing materially from those summarised in this report, considered appropriate and in the Companys best interests including with respect to notice provisions.
The Remuneration Committee may consider offering In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of additional cash or share-based payments to buyout existing internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual awards forfeited by a new Executive Director when it commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and Director.
Any such buyout payments would mirror so The fee payable to a new Non-executive Director will be in line far as possible the remuneration lost when leaving the former with the fee structure for Non-executive Directors in place at employer.
The Remuneration Committee may avail itself of the date of appointment.
the current Listing Rule exemption to make such buyout awards where doing so is necessary to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of the relevant individual.
Annual Report on Remuneration The Annual Statement made by the Chairman on page 35 and this annual report on remuneration is subject to a shareholders advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Information in this report is audited except where stated.
Members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Stephen Pull, Chairman, David Shalders appointed 27 February 2014, Roger Perkin and Angela Knight.
The single total remuneration for each of the Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2014 was as follows: 1 Salaries and fees Benefits Bonus Pension Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 2 John Phizackerley 183 537 720 3 Terry Smith 494 650 1 2 2,204 495 2,856 Paul Mainwaring 350 294 1 1 495 551 846 846 Non-executive Directors 4 Rupert Robson 175 153 175 153 Angela Knight 59 58 59 58 Roger Perkin 62 55 62 55 5 Stephen Pull 62 55 62 55 6 David Shalders 45 45 7 Keith Hamill 32 32 8 David Clark 20 20 1,430 1,317 2 3 1,032 2,755 2,464 4,075 Notes: 1 50% of the bonus is subject to investment in the Companys ordinary shares as detailed in the policy table.
3 Former Chief Executive retired 31 August 2014.
Includes 60,233 LTIS award assessed to termination date and subject to pro-rating.
4 In addition he received 1,000 as a pension trustee.
5 In addition he received 4,000 as a pension trustee 2013: 3,000.
9 No LTIP awards vested in either 2014 or 2013 as the performance conditions were not satisfied.
42 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Fixed remuneration Awards under the Long Term Incentive The fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive, John Scheme LTIS Phizackerley was 550,000 pro rata.
The fixed remuneration Awards under the LTIS made in 2014, amounted to 400,000 of the former Chief Executive, Terry Smith, was 650,000 forJohn Phizackerley and 200,000 for Paul Mainwaring.
The prorata and had not been changed since 2005.
The fixed awards have a normal vesting date of 30 June 2017 and are remuneration of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring was subject to malus as described in the Directors Remuneration 350,000 and has not changed since October 2013.
Policy and the following performance conditions: Annual bonus The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR The Remuneration Committee determined that the bonus performance over the three years to 31 December 2016, with pool for 2014 should amount to 1.032m, which represented minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the percentile 1.92% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit.
In prior years the ranking of the Companys TSR over the respective period discretionary bonus pool was calculated based on operating relative to the TSR of all other companies comprising, at profits before taking account of any reorganisation costs.
thestart of the relevant performance period, the FTSE 250 Although at the time we felt there was a good business excluding investment trusts is 50th and with maximum rationale for this, a small number of shareholders commented vesting of 100% if it is 25th or better: that if such costs were incurred in future it might be more The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to appropriate to calculate the bonus pool after restructuring averagecash flow before debt repayments and dividends costs.
Consequently our Remuneration Policy calculates the performance over the three years to 31 December 2016 bonus pool after restructuring costs.
Cashflow, with minimum vesting of 25% if Cash flow In 2014 we incurred restructuring costs of 46.7m which equals or exceeds 40m and maximum vesting of 100% materially reduced the bonus pool.
ifCash flow equals or exceeds 150m: and The Remuneration Policy requires that for any bonus to be The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to return awarded operating profit must exceed a threshold calculated onequity performance compared with the Companys IDB as the weighted average cost of capital times the average competitors over the three years to 31 December 2016 or capital employed.
The Committee determined that the Bonus equivalent financial year in respect of competitors, with Pool Operating Profit had exceeded this threshold.
The Bonus minimum vesting of 25% if the Companys ROE equals the Pool Operating Profit used to determine the aggregate bonus average ROE of competitors and maximum vesting of 100% pool in 2014 does not exceed 150% of the operating profit ifthe Companys ROE is three times the average or better.
used to calculate the bonus in 2013.
Thecompanies comprising the comparator group are BGC Partners Inc, GFI Group Inc, ICAP plc and Compagnie The allocation to each of the Executive Directors took Financire Tradition.
intoconsideration their personal contribution and relative End of responsibilities.
50% of the 2014 bonus net of tax has to Nature of Threshold Performance beinvested in the Companys ordinary shares to be held 1 Basis Award Face Value Vesting Period forthree years and will be subject to clawback as described John inthe Directors Remuneration Policy during this time.
The Phizackerley Cash 400,000 25% 31.12.16 reinvestment requirement does not have any service or othernon performance conditions attaching to it.
Paul Mainwaring Cash 200,000 25% 31.12.16 Taking into account the bonus provisions of his employment contract and operating within the terms of the Directors 1 Our Remuneration Policy is to make Annual Awards equivalent to the Remuneration Policy, John Phizackerley has been awarded a higherof aggregate basic salary and 25% of the prior year aggregate bonus of 536,667 which includes an exceptional payment variable remuneration or basic salary for a new Executive Director or of Executive Directors in office at the date of the award.
In 2014 the aggregate of178,000 to recognise his contribution to the Company and award wasreduced because John Phizackerley joined during the course the fact that the reported operating profit, which is used to of2014.
calculate the level of his bonus, is lower than was anticipated atthe time of the negotiations relating to his employment contract primarily as a consequence of higher restructuring costs emerging between the 9 May 2014 Interim Management Statement and the 29 July 2014 Interim Results announcement.
Paul Mainwaring has been awarded a bonus of 495,000 2013:551,000 reflecting a particularly strong individual performance during 2014, which was a year of substantial change including the retirement of Terry Smith and the joining of John Phizackerley as Chief Executive.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 43 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards made in 2012 lapsed on 31 December 2014 as the performance conditions attached to these awards were not achieved.
There are no other outstanding unvested awards under the LTIP.
The outstanding share options awarded to each of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Shares Shares under under option at option at Earliest Date 1 Jan 31 Dec Exercise exercise Expiry Director of grant 2014 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2014 price date date 22 June 22 June 21 June Terry Smith 2009 302,148 302,148 1 in total 2012 2019 21 June 21 June 20 June 1 2012 571,719 571,719 0 1 in total 2015 2022 21 June 21 June 20 June Paul Mainwaring 2012 142,930 142,930 0 1 in total 2015 2022 Notes: 1 Lapsed on termination as performance conditions not met.
2 The performance conditions attached to these awards were: 50% of award based on Total Shareholder Return and 50% based on Absolute Shareholder Return.
Shareholding requirements Termination payments for Terry Smith Half of the 2014 bonus awarded to each of the Executive Terry Smith retired as a Director, with effect from 31 August Directors was subject to a condition that the net of tax 2014 the Termination Date.
Details of his compensation amount to be paid at the end of March 2015 would package on leaving office, which are in line with the beinvested in the Companys shares, to be held for a Companys contractual obligations, are given below.
Accrued entitlements: Mr Smith was paid in respect of This investment requirement can be met, in part or in full, accruedsalary and contractual benefits up to and including byordinary shares already held, excluding any shares already the Termination Date.
He was also paid in respect of being counted towards investment requirements in relation outstanding accrued holiday entitlement.
Mr Smith did not toprevious bonus payments.
receive any accrued bonus payment in respect of the 2014 annual bonusscheme.
In 2013 a new overarching shareholding requirement was also introduced for the Executive Directors, details of which are set PILON: Pursuant to clause 1.3 of his service contract, Mr Smith out in the Directors Remuneration Policy above.
was paid the sum of 652,000 in lieu of salary and contractual benefits he would have received during his notice period less Paul Mainwaring currently complies with the Companys deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions.
overarching minimum shareholding requirements and complies The PILON payment does not include any payment in lieu with investment requirements in respect of previously paid ofbonus.
John Phizackerley will purchase the required number of shares when his bonus is paid following the announcement LTIP: The Option granted under theLTIP to Mr Smith on 22 of results on 3 March 2015.
June 2009 over 302,148 shares which is currently exercisable will remain exercisable during the normal exercise period, Non-executive Directors fees ending on 21 June 2019.
The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined In respect of the Option granted under the LTIP on 21 June bythe Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined 2012 over 571,719 shares, the Remuneration Committee by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for the Chairman determined, pursuant to the rules of the LTIP, that this Option increased from 175,000 to 200,000 per annum with effect would vest subject to the applicable performance conditions from 1 March 2015.
The Non-executive Directors fees were assessed tothe Termination Date and subject to pro-rating for increased from 54,000 to 60,000 per annum with effect time.
Theperformance conditions were assessed and none of from1 March 2015.
Both increases reflect the fact that the the shares vested.
fees have not changed since 2011 and the required workload has increased significantly.
In addition, a fee of 5,000 per annum ispaid to the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each receive an annual fee of 7,500 in respect ofthe additional responsibility of chairing a committee.
Non-executive Directors acting as trustees of the Companys occupational pension scheme are entitled to an attendance fee of 1,000 per meeting.
44 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information LTIS: Mr Smith was granted an Award under the LTIS on 20 Save as set out above, no remuneration payment or loss of December 2013 with a maximum cash value of 800,000.
The office payment was made to Mr Smith.
Remuneration Committee determined, pursuant to rules of the LTIS, Consultancy arrangement: Mr Smith agreed to maintain that the Award would vest on the Termination Date subject to the hisinvolvement with the Company as a consultant until applicable performance conditions assessed to the Termination Date 31August 2016, advising the Chairman and Board on matters and subject to pro-rating for time.
The value of theAward was relating to the management and strategic development of determined to be 60,233, asfollows: theCompany.
He will receive a fee, via a personal services Value Time company, of 250,000 per annum for providing the Award of Award Vesting Apportioned consultancy services.
2013 800,000 218,880 60,233 Recruitment of Chief Executive As part of the recruitment process for the new Chief Executive, 50% of award based on relative TSR, 0% vested work was undertaken to ensure that John Phizackerleys 25% of award based on ROE, 80.83% vested contract is consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy.
25% of award based on cashflow, 28.61% vested Directors interests 27.35% of total award vested The interests all beneficial as at 31 December 2014 or the dateof retirement from the Board of those persons who were Legal fees: The Company made a payment to Mr Smiths legal Directors and their connected persons during the year in the advisers of 5,750 plus VAT, as a contribution towards legal ordinary share capital of the Company, were as follows: advice in connection with Mr Smiths termination of office.
1 LTIP awards Exercised Vested but during the Director Shares Unvested unexercised year Rupert Robson 7,000 2 John Phizackerley 3 Terry Smith 9,645,510 302,148 Paul Mainwaring 279,741 Angela Knight Roger Perkin Stephen Pull 7,000 4 David Shalders Notes: 1 All LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The option granted to Mr Smith on 22 June 2009 will remain exercisable during the normal exercise period, ending on 21 June 2019.
TheRemuneration Committee determined, pursuant to the rules of the LTIP that the Option granted on 21 June 2012 would vest subject to the applicable performance conditions assessed to the Termination Date and subject to pro-rating for time.
The performance conditions were assessed and none of the sharesvested and therefore the option lapsed.
5 There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year to the date of this report.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 45 Report on Directors Remuneration continued The following information is not subject to audit.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee Voting at the 2014 AGM PwC was appointed and is retained by the Committee as its At the AGM held on 9 May 2014 the following votes were cast principal and only material external adviser as a continuation in respect of the Report on Directors Remuneration: oftheir earlier work on our Remuneration Policy.
Their Vote on Implementation of Remuneration Policy as below appointment is based on their expertise and knowledge of the Company.
PwC advised on some aspects of our remuneration Votes policy and practice.
Fees payable to PwC during the year totaled For Against withheld 16,835 and the Committee are satisfied that these fees are Number % Number % Number appropriate for thework undertaken.
PwC has advised the 120,018,218 64.46 66,180,702 35.54 2,026,218 Company on remuneration issues for several years and the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the other services Vote on Remuneration Policy as below provided by  LLP to the Company, Votes which include taxadvice and other associated services, do not For Against withheld affect their objectivity or independence.
Number % Number % Number Herbert Smith Freehills LLP was appointed by the Company to 165,631,487 88.14 22,283,766 11.86 309,885 provide advice on law and regulation in relation to employee incentive matters.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP also provides Notes: general legal advice to the Company.
1 Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
AVote withheld is not a vote in law.
Outside directorships 2 Votes For includes those giving the Chairman discretion.
Neither John Phizackerley nor Paul Mainwaring has any outside Shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM directorships from which they received any remuneration At our AGM in 2014 although we received a high level of in2014.
support for our Remuneration Policy, 35.5% of votes were Performance graph castagainst the implementation of our Remuneration Report.
A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return Before our AGM some shareholders and their agents had incomparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index expressed concern about the increase in base salary for our excluding investment trusts in the six years to 31 December Finance Director that was implemented in 2013.
This was a 2014 is shown below: decision that was taken only after very careful consideration and after extensive consultation with shareholders.
As a result 400 we committed that his base pay would not be reviewed again until the expiry of the Remuneration Policy put in place at the 350 2014 AGM at the earliest.
The action we have taken this year with respect to the base salary of our Chief Executive is a 300 demonstration of the serious consideration we give to shareholder views on this matter.
250 2015 AGM Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements and the 200 Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during 150 normal business hours and will be available for shareholders to view at the 2015 AGM.
100 50 Dec2008 Dec2009 Dec2010 Dec2011 Dec2012 Dec2013 Dec2014 Tullett Prebon plc FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts The Board believes that the above index is most relevant as it comprises listed companies of similar size.
46 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Chief Executive remuneration history Total Remuneration Annual Bonus LTIP Year ended Name 000 % of max payout % of max vesting 1 31 December 2014 John Phizackerley 720 n a n a 2 Terry Smith 433 n a n a 31 December 2013 Terry Smith 2,856 51% 31 December 2012 Terry Smith 3,153 n a 31 December 2011 Terry Smith 4,929 n a 45% 31 December 2010 Terry Smith 4,344 n a 31 December 2009 Terry Smith 4,652 n a Notes: 1 For the 4 month period from 1 September 2014.
2 For the 8 month period from 1 January 2014 31 August 2014.
3 Variable remuneration was uncapped in the years 2009-2012.
Change in Chief Executive remuneration % change % change % change in bonus Salary Benefits payment 1 Chief Executive Senior Management 2% -10% This table show the change of the Chief Executives fixed and variable remuneration compared to Senior Management.
Notes: 1 Neither John Phizackerley or the former Chief Executive have received a pay increase.
2 Terry Smith did not receive a bonus for 2014.
John Phizackerley received a prorated bonus from 1 September 2014.
A large proportion of the Groups remuneration is payable to Brokers, who earn a significant proportion of their income as contractual bonus based on a formula linked to revenue.
The Remuneration Committee considered that comparison of the ChiefExecutives remuneration with that of Senior Management would accordingly be more meaningful than comparison withallemployees.
Relative importance of spend on remuneration The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend payments: m 2014 2013 % change 1 Employee remuneration 490.4 531.1 -8% 2 Shareholder dividends paid 36.7 36.7 Notes: 1 Employee remuneration includes employers social security costs and pension contributions.
2 Shareholder dividends comprises the dividends paid.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 47 Report on Directors Remuneration continued During 2015 we intend to make additional changes to the Implementation of Remuneration Policy wayin which we implement our Remuneration Policy.
These in2015 changes are within the terms of our existing approved policy.
Following publication of the Annual Report in 2014 a Infuture our Executive Directors will be set individual bonus statement was made on 29 April 2014 in respect of the targets within the current approved range of operating profits.
Remuneration Policy for shareholder approval at the 2014 Our Chief Executive will be entitled to receive a bonus of AGM.
The policy states that with respect to the maximum 1.825 2.175% of reported operating profits and our Finance payable annual discretionary bonus The maximum aggregate Director will be entitled to a bonus of 0.675- 0.825% of reported Executive Directors bonus is 3% of Group reported operating operating profits.
The total bonus pool range of 2.5-3.0% is profit, rising to 5% in the event that one or more new therefore unchanged.
Within these ranges bonuses will be Executive Directors are appointed.
Operating profit may not awarded according to individual performances measured exceed 150% of the operating profit used to calculate the against individual objectives.
Individual performance targets previous years bonus.
In exceptional circumstances payments will be disclosed retrospectively and will include delivery may be made outside this range.
Adjustments may be made against strategic objectives, leadership, people development inrelation to significant acquisitions.
For commercial reasons it is not in the Companys The statement confirmed that this discretion will be used interests to disclose specific targets at this stage.
However, exceptional or genuinely unforeseen Committee believes that this change will enhance individual circumstances may arise in future and in those circumstances accountability and further align our Remuneration Policy with itmay be in shareholders interests for the Company to put in the Companys strategy.
place remuneration arrangements that are outside the terms Base salaries for our Chief Executive and Finance Director will ofthe Policy.
It is emphasized that this discretion will only be remain unchanged in 2015. used in very narrow circumstances that is, in exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee considers In 2015 the Remuneration Committee expects to make a that these circumstances will arise highly infrequently, if at all, further LTIS award on the terms and with performance in the lifetime of the Policy.
The Committee will regard reliance conditions as outlined in the Policy.
on thisdiscretion as a matter of utmost seriousness and, in The policies set out in the Policy Table in the Remuneration relation to the stated obligation to consult in advance with Policy section of the Report on Directors Remuneration will major shareholders, will not proceed unless there was clear apply in 2015. consensus in favour amongst those consulted.
In any event the operating profit used to determine the aggregate bonus pool Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by will not exceed 150% of the operating profit used to calculate the previous years bonus.
Stephen Pull Chairman Remuneration Committee 3 March 2015 48 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014
