231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 42 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Report The Companys Remuneration Policy provides that fees The remuneration for the non-executive Directors is payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles Board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne of Association.
The present limit is 200,000 in aggregate per by the Directors and should be sufficient to enable candidates annum.
However, in order that the Company can continue to of high calibre to be recruited.
Directors are remunerated in attract high calibre candidates to join the Board, it is proposed the form of fees payable monthly in arrears, paid to the that the aggregate limit be increased to 250,000 per annum.
Director personally or to a specified third party.
There are no Further details of this proposal can be found within the long-term incentive schemes, share option schemes or Explanatory Notes of the Principal Changes to the Companys pension arrangements and the fees are not specifically related Articles of Association on page 79.
Non-executive Directors to the Directors performance, either individually or are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, collectively.
Directors remuneration comprises solely Directors long-term incentive schemes or other benefits including fees.
The current and projected Directors fees for 2014 and performance related benefits.
2015 are shown in the table below.
The Company does not It is the Boards intention that the Remuneration Policy will be have any employees.
considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at Directors Fees Current and Projected least once every three years.
Fees Fees An Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this policy will be 2015 2014 considered by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Sir Martin Smith 41,100 39,150 General Meeting.
None of the Directors has a service contract.
The terms of their appointment provide that Directors shall retire and be subject to election at the first annual general meeting after their appointment and to re-election annually thereafter.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
No communications have been received from shareholders regarding Directors remuneration.
42 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
