Directors remuneration report Introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the report of the Board covering the Remuneration Policy and practice for the first time as a listed company.
In the prospectus we set out some of our core principles for our Remuneration Policy.
These have been further developed and are set out in detail in the Policy report which will be put to shareholders for a binding vote.
The Committees goal is We have continued with the pre-IPO bonus plan for the remainder to ensure the retention ofthis financial year as the targets had been set before IPO and itwasnot appropriate to change the plan part way through the year.
and incentivisation of Allthe other arrangements operated by the Company during the year were inline with the policy summarised in the prospectus and which the Management Team are now set out in full in this report.
required to deliver the During the year the Group delivered strong performance, as summarised on page 15.
Revenue increased by 24.4% compared to the prior year Groups mission.
as the Group continues to grow, supported by our continued marketing campaign during the year.
The Group also saw strong growth in adjusted EBITDA, increasing by 34.6% from the prior year.
This performance has been reflected in the level of payments under our incentive plans.
The new incentive schemes, established during the year, have been designed to support the principles of our Remuneration Policy which are described on pages 42 to 54.
These policies have been developed to align with the Groups strategy and reward achievement of the Groups long-term goals.
I am pleased to take up the role as Remuneration Committee Chairman and would like to welcome Duncan Tatton-Brown, Robin Klein and ourGroup Chairman, Mike Evans, to the Committee.
David Dutton also attends as an observer appointed by DMGT.
The Company considers that the attendance of an observer at Committee meetings will not prejudice the independence or proper functioning of the Committee.
Each member brings his her own extensive business knowledge and experience toensure that the Committee has the levelof competency required tooperate effectively and support the business as it continues to grow.
During theperiod the Committee has also been advised by  LLP PwC, following anextensive tender process, to ensure that our Remuneration Policy isappropriately benchmarked against our peers, is consistent with market practice and accurately aligns with the Groups strategy.
38 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Remuneration highlights for the 2014 financial year Key activities of the Committee f annual bonuses of 50% of salary for the CEO and 50% for the CFO1 The Committees key activities during the 2014 financial year were: recognising the strong financial performance of the Group and the f agreement of the Committees terms of reference: personal performance ofthe Executive Directors over the year: f formulation of the Companys first Remuneration Policy f the launch of the new ZPG Long Term Incentive Plan with annual asalistedcompany: grants of nil-cost options worth up to 150% of salary to the CEO and 125% of salary for the CFO.
Awards will vest at the end of f implementing and making awards under the Companys new three years subject to the achievement of the following LongTerm Incentive Plan: performance conditions: f determining the level of bonus payments in respect of this financial f 50% of pay-out is based on adjusted basic earnings per share2 year: and EPS growth of 15% p. a. for 25% of this element of the award to f drafting the Companys first Directors remuneration report vest with full vesting occurring for EPS growth of 27.5% p. a. : and asalisted company.
f 50% of pay-out is based on comparative total shareholder I hope that you find the information in this report helpful and I look return TSR performance of the Company compared to the forward to your support at the Companys AGM.
FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity investment trusts 25% of this element of the award vesting for median TSR comparative performance with full vesting at upper quartile andstraight-line vesting between these two points: and Sherry Coutu f launch of the new ZPG Share Incentive Plan this plan provides Chairman, Remuneration Committee thefollowing benefits to all employees: f an award of 2,500 Free Shares which vest after three years Notes subject to continued employment: This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and f the opportunity to buy 1,800 worth of shares out of pre-tax Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance salary whereby individuals will receive one matching share for Code the Code and the Listing Rules.
The report consists of three sections: each share purchased.
The level of participation amongst eligible f the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: employees was 65% at the launch of the plan with the average sum committed to the purchase of shares being 1,449: and f the Remuneration policy report which sets out the Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
f these shares are all provided under an HMRC approved This policy will apply for three years from its date of approval at the 2015 AGM: and planwhich provides potential tax benefits to participants f the Annual report on remuneration which sets out payments made to the Directors andtheCompany.
and details the link between Company performance and remuneration forthe 2014 financial year.
The Chairmans annual statement and the annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
The Policy will be subject to a binding vote.
1 50% of salary for the nine month period from 1 January 2014 to 30 September 2014.
Prior to 1 January 2014 bonuses were awarded based on performance over the calendar year.
See page 56 for more information on bonus awards.
2 Adjusted basic earnings per share is defined on page 15.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 39 Directors remuneration report continued At a glance Our strategy Introduction The Groups strategy is laid out on page 8.
The Groups goal is to provide the most useful online resources to UK property consumers In this section, we summarise the purpose and be the most effective partner to its members.
The Group focuses ofour Remuneration Policy and its linkage on the following core strategies in order to deliver on its goal: to our corporate strategic objectives and we 1.
Grow brand awareness and user audience highlight the performance and remuneration 2.
Extend listings inventory and property data outcomes for 2014.
Develop additional products to extend value to members in the Annual report on remuneration.
Further innovate and increase user engagement Our principles of remuneration 5.
Develop revenue streams in related adjacent markets f There should be a strong link between an individuals reward The Directors believe that the Groups large and engaged user audience, andthe performance of the Group to align the interests strong relationships with the vast majority of UK property professionals, ofSeniorManagement with those of shareholders.
leading brands and powerful technology platform make it well f Variable remuneration makes up a significant proportion positioned to capitalise on opportunities in related adjacent markets.
oftheremuneration package up to 275% of base salary.
f Stretching performance conditions directly aligned with Groupstrategy.
Remuneration policy As part of the successful IPO, our Remuneration Policy has been designed to support the strategic objectives of the Company and to allow thebusiness to recruit, retain and incentivise the quality of Senior Management needed to shape and execute our strategy to deliver sustained shareholder value over the long term.
The key elements of our Executive Director remuneration are outlined below.
Element Operation of element Salary The Company provides competitive levels in line with comparator companies in the FTSE 250.
Benefits Pension Annual bonus 50% of the bonus earned with respect to performance in the financial year will be paid in cash and 50% ofbonus earned will be deferred into Company shares which vest after three years based on continued employment newly introduced from the 2015 financial year.
Long Term Incentive Plan Awards will vest at the end of three years subject to the achievement of: f stretching EPS conditions which provide alignment to our core strategic priorities of increasing brandawareness, property data, product portfolio and the development of revenue streams: and f TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity investment trusts which provides alignment to the success of our business in delivering value to ourshareholders compared against companies of a similar size and scale to Zoopla Property Group.
40 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How we have performed 24% 35% 20% 18% Revenue Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EPS ARPA No change 33% 12% 5% Listings Visits Leads Members KPI definitions can be found on page 15.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2014 financial year Salary Benefits Bonus LTIPs Pension SIP Total Name Period 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alex Chesterman 2014 302 3 158 33 3 499 2013 203 3 119 31 356 Stephen Morana 2014 223 3 113 14 3 356 2013 83 1 44 128 1 1 Stephen Morana joined the Group on 15 April 2013 and therefore his remuneration reflects only part of the financial year.
Composition and terms of reference of the Advisers to the Remuneration Committee  Following a formal tendering process carried out by the Board The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of priortothe IPO of the Company, the Committee has engaged the reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
specific packages for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects members of the Executive Team.
The Company consults with key ofthe Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of shareholders in respect of the Remuneration Policy and the introduction theExecutive Team.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee fromPwC during the year was objective and independent.
are available on the Companys corporate website, www.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the All members of the Committee are either Independent Non-Executive voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective Directors or the Group Chairman and were appointed to the Committee and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fees of on 4 June 2014, with the exception of Robin Klein, who was appointed 41,500 2013: nil were provided to PwC during the year in respect on 9 July 2014.
The Committee receives assistance from the HR Director of remuneration advice received.
PwC have no other connection with and Company Secretary, who attend meetings by invitation, except the Group.
when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The CEO and CFO attend by invitation on occasions.
The Committee met once between the IPO and the end of the 2014 financial year.
Meeting attendance is shown on page 30 of this report.
co. uk 41 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy f maintain a competitive package against businesses of Introduction acomparable size in the FTSE 250 and comparable peer groupbusinesses in the sector with reference to the breadth In accordance with the new regulations, the oftherole and experience the role holder brings to the Company: Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy f operate a consistent reward and performance philosophy asset out below will become formally effective throughout the business: at the AGM on 12 February 2015 and will apply f encourage a material, personal stake in the business and a for the period of three years from the date long-term focus on sustained growth through long-term shareholding: ofapproval.
f provide a balanced package with a focus on variable pay: and Policy summary f take into account the associated risks of each aspect of remuneration.
The Committee determines the Policy for the Executive Directors, The Committee is satisfied that its approach to the Executive Chairman and other Senior Management for current and future years  is designed to promote the long-term and this is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Policy isdesigned to successof the Company.
support the strategic objectives of the Company andtoallow the business to recruit, retain and incentivise the quality of Senior Management The ways in which these principles are reflected in the Policy and needed to shape and execute our strategy todeliver sustained itsapplication are described on pages 55 to 61 of this report.
shareholder value over the long term.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually the remuneration The Policy aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors, arrangements for the Executive Directors and key Senior Management SeniorManagement and employees to the long-term interests of drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the shareholders and aims to support a high performance culture with Group and taking into consideration: appropriate reward for superior performance, without creating incentives f business strategy over the period: that will encourage excessive risk taking or unsustainable Company f overall corporate performance: performance.
The Committee considers that a successful policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys f market conditions affecting the Company: business environment and in remuneration practice.
f the property market: The Policy is designed around the following key principles: f changing practice in the markets where the Company competes f ensure a strong link between an individuals reward and the performance fortalent: and of the Group to align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders.
In achieving this principle the Committee has f changing views of institutional shareholders and their ensured that the performance elements of the remuneration are representativebodies.
transparent and stretching: 42 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements UK Corporate Governance Code The Committee is comfortable that the proposed Policy is in line with the revised 2014 Code.
The following table sets out the key elements oftherevised Code and how the Policy is in line with the Governance Code: Code provision Company remuneration policy Executive Directors remuneration should be designed to promote The Company has an LTIP with a three year performance period the long-term success of the Company.
and has provision for the Committee to add holding periods post-vesting.
The Policy incorporates bonus arrangements where part ofthe bonus is deferred in shares for three years with the facility forthe Committee to add holding periods post-vesting.
It is the Committees view that these arrangements provide a holistic approach to ensuring Executive Directors are focused on the long-term success of the Company.
Schemes should include provisions that would enable the Company Both the bonus plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan include to recover sums paid or withhold the payment ofanysum, and best practice malus and clawback provisions.
specify the circumstances in which it would beappropriate to do so.
For share-based remuneration, the Remuneration Committee The Policy contains the following relevant features: shouldconsider requiring Directors to hold a minimum number f minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors ofshares and to hold shares for a further period after vesting or of100% of salary: and exercise, including for a period after leaving the Company, subject f the provision for the Committee to add holding periods to the need to finance any costs of acquisition and associated post-vesting for the bonus plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee does not currently believe that with the shareholding requirement and the deferral period for part of the annual bonus in shares that additional holding periods are required.
However, the Committee will consider this position on an annual basis.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with inthis report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and itspolicies prior to the date of the 2015 AGM will be honoured, even administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by ifsatisfaction of such commitments is made following the AGM and shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee may beinconsistent with the remuneration policies.
To the best of the hasthe discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or Companys knowledge, there are no such commitments.
administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
co. uk 43 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for theExecutive Directors.
The Group operates employee share and variable pay plans, with pension provisions provided for all Executives and employees.
In addition, any salary increases for Executive Directors are expected to be generally in line with those for UK-based employees.
Policy table All references to a policy level e. g. median are in relation to the Companys comparator group for remuneration.
Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration andlong-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Salary Policy: Median Provides a base level of remuneration An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment f pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee Whilst there is no maximum salary level or salary increase level, tosupport recruitment and retention of andreviewed annually or when there is a change in position has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the toreflect the Committees wish to ensure that fixed costs are Executive Directors with the necessary orresponsibility.
Group when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors minimised it is intended that salaries will not exceed the median experience and expertise to deliver the and also considers the relationship between general changes to level relative to the current comparator group of companies.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Groups strategy.
pay and conditions within the Group as a whole: and Committeeconsiders: The companies in the comparator group are the constituents ofthe FTSE 250 Index.
The Committee intends to review the f the economic environment.
f remuneration practices within the Group: listof companies each year and may add or remove companies Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, f the performance of the individual Executive Director: from the Group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes to onoccasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy thecomparator group will be disclosed in the part of the report f the individual Executive Directors experience level until they become established in their role.
In such cases setting out the operation of the policy for the future year.
andresponsibilities: subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average In general salary rises to Executive Directors will be in line until the target positioning is achieved.
f the general performance of the Group: withtherise to employees.
f salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the The Company will set out, in the section headed Implementation comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking: of the Policy in the following financial year the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors see page 59.
Benefits Policy: Market Provides a benefits package in line with The Executive Directors receive family private health cover and The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the The cost of the benefits provided.
standard market practice relative to its death in service life assurance.
The Committee recognises the benefitsdescribed.
comparator group to enable the Company need to maintain suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits to recruit and retain Executive Directors with that ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and the experience and expertise to deliver the retaining personnel.
Executive Directors shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Group may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Pensions Policy: Median Provides a pension provision in line with the Employer retirement funding is determined as a percentage of be provided in the form of a salary supplement, which would 15% of salary p. a. comparator group to enable the Company gross basic salary, up to a maximum limit of 15%.
Where this notitself be pensionable or form part of salary for the purposes to recruit and retain Executive Directors with exceeds the maximum annual pension contribution that can of determining the extent of participation in the Companys the experience and expertise to deliver the benefit from tax relief or the Lifetime Allowance, any excess may incentive arrangements.
44 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for theExecutive Directors.
co. uk 45 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration andlong-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Annual Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Policy: Median The DBP provides a significant incentive to The Company operates in a rapidly changing sector and therefore The Committee will determine the maximum annual participation The Plan is based on a mix of financial and strategic operational the Executive Directors linked to achievement the Committee may change the balance of the measures or use in the Plan for each year, which will not exceed 125% of salary.
conditions and is measured over a period of one financial year.
in delivering goals that are closely aligned different measures for subsequent financial years, as appropriate, The financial measures will account for no less than 50% of the Below threshold level of performance 0% of the bonus will be with the Companys strategy and the to reflect this.
This is subject to the condition that at least 50% of bonus opportunity.
At threshold level of performance 25% of the bonus creation of value for shareholders.
the award is based on financial performance.
At target level of performance 75% of the bonus The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances In particular, the DBP supports the Companys will be earned.
At 105% of target performance 100% of the tochange performance measures and targets and the weightings The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation objectives allowing the setting of annual bonus will be earned the maximum.
attached to performance measures part-way through a performance of the Policy in the following financial year the nature of the target targets based on the businesses strategic year if there is a significant and material event which causes the measures and their weighting for each year see page 59.
The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares.
objectives at that time, meaning that a wider Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets ForExecutive Directors 50% of annual bonus to be paid Details of the performance measurements and their level of range of performance metrics can be used are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in immediately in cash and 50% deferred into shares.
satisfaction for the year being reported on will be set out in the that are relevant and achievable.
cases where the Committee believes that the bonus outcome Annual report on remuneration.
isnot a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
The Committee has discretion to defer part The Committee can determine that part of the bonus earned of the annual bonus earned in shares under The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that, given the under the Annual Bonus Plan is provided in the form of an award the Annual Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan.
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial of shares under the DBP.
The maximum value of deferred shares The advantage of deferral is: targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for is 50% of the bonus earned.
the bonus plan in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
f ongoing risk adjustment due to the The main terms of these awards are: This avoids the risk of the Company inadvertently providing linkto the share price over the deferral aprofit forecast because profit targets are linked to budgets.
f minimum deferral period of three years: and period thereby driving long-term strategic Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be behaviours: and f the participants continued employment at the end published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders ofthedeferral period.
f amounts deferred in shares are also can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the annual bonus.
forfeitable on an Executive Directors The Committee retains the discretion to include holding periods.
The DBP contains clawback and malus provisions.
voluntary cessation of employment The Committee may award dividend equivalents on those shares which provides an effective lock-in.
to plan participants to the extent that they vest.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Policy: Median Awards are designed to incentivise the Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors.
These will Plan maximum 200% of salary.
The performance conditions for awards are currently EPS growth Executive Directors to maximise total vest at the end of a three year period subject to: and TSR.
EPS growth for this purpose is defined as the increase Below threshold level of performance 0% of the award will vest.
shareholder returns by successfully in adjusted basic EPS1.
f the Executive Directors continued employment at the date 25% of the award will vest for threshold performance.
100% delivering the Companys objectives ofvesting: and ofthe award will vest for maximum performance.
Straight-line The Company operates in a rapidly changing sector and therefore andtoshare in the resulting increase vesting occurs between these points.
the Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use f satisfaction of the performance conditions.
different measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
It is the The use of EPS ensures Executive Directors The Committee may award dividend equivalents on awards Committees intention that no material change will be made to the are focused on ensuring the annual profit totheextent that these vest.
type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
performance targeted by the Annual Bonus The Committee retains the discretion to include holding periods.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year Plan flows through to long-term sustainable will be set out in the Annual report on remuneration and for future EPS growth.
grants in the statement of implementation of remuneration policy The use of comparative TSR measures in the future financial year.
thesuccess of the implementation of the The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Companys strategy in delivering an above 1 Adjusted basic EPS is calculated as basic EPS excluding exceptional items market level of return.
and anyother material items considered by the Committee to be outside the control of Management.
46 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration andlong-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Annual Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Policy: Median The DBP provides a significant incentive to The Company operates in a rapidly changing sector and therefore The Committee will determine the maximum annual participation The Plan is based on a mix of financial and strategic operational the Executive Directors linked to achievement the Committee may change the balance of the measures or use in the Plan for each year, which will not exceed 125% of salary.
co. uk 47 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration andlong-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics HMRC Share Incentive Plan Policy: Market To encourage Company-wide employee The Company operates a share incentive plan in which the UK plan in line with HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
There are no performance conditions as this is an share ownership and thereby align Executive Directors are eligible to participate which is HMRC all-employeeplan.
approved and is open to all eligible staff.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans, and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
Minimum shareholding requirement The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up, over afive year period, and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This Policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Policy: Median Provides a level of fees to support The Board, as a whole, is responsible for setting the remuneration The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are None.
recruitment and retention of the Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman whose setatbroadly the median of the comparator group.
and Non-Executive Directors with the remuneration is considered by the Remuneration Committee and In general the level of fee increase for the Chairman and necessary experience to advise and assist recommended to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors will be set taking account of any with establishing and monitoring the Groups Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee and additional fees changein responsibility and will take into account the strategic objectives.
The Chairman does not receive generalrisein salaries across the UK workforce.
any additional fees for membership of Committees.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the bytheChairman and Non-Executive Directors and may comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive settleanytax incurred in relation to these.
Fees are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
The Chairman and Non-Executives fees are set out on page 55.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate inany variable remuneration or benefit arrangements.
48 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration andlong-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics HMRC Share Incentive Plan Policy: Market To encourage Company-wide employee The Company operates a share incentive plan in which the UK plan in line with HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
co. uk 49 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new Director will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The Remuneration Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the market in which the Company competes.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary Salary will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Benefits The standard benefit package for existing Executive Directors will apply.
Pension The maximum employer contribution will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 125% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
Maximum variable In the year of recruitment, the maximum variable pay will be 325% of salary 450% if maximum sign-on pay incentive compensation is provided.
opportunity Sign-on The Committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
compensation However, in exceptional circumstances, where the Committee decides to provide this type of compensation, itwill endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation ofemployment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
Themaximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered bytheCompany and in all circumstances is limited to 125% of salary.
Buyout of The Committees policy is not to provide buyouts as a matter of course.
incentives However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision forfeited on of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous cessation of employment will be calculated taking into account the following: employment f the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: f the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of their being satisfied: and f any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
50 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out on the previous page would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements ofthe remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Directors remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director is to apply the policy that applies tothe current Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Service agreements and letters of appointment Notice periods Compensation Date of service contract provisions for Name letter of appointment Nature of contract From Company From Director early termination Executive Directors Alex Chesterman 22 April 2014 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Stephen Morana 22 April 2014 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-Executive Directors Mike Evans 1 May 2014 3 year contract 3 months 3 months None David Dutton 4 June 2014 3 year contract None None None Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Robin Klein 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Stephen Daintith 4 June 2014 3 year contract None None None The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12 month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period which would, in any event, reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each Independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three year period.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all Directors be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of financial year2015, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : and iii LTIP.
Element Description Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed Salary, benefits and pension Included Included Included Annual bonus Annual bonus 0% 75% of the maximum bonus 100% of the maximum bonus including deferred shares Long Term Incentive Plan Award under the 0% 62.5% of the maximum award 100% of the maximum award Long Term Incentive Plan Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 51 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy continued In accordance with the regulations, share price growth has not been included.
For the purposes of this disclosure, dividend equivalents have not been added to deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between theCompany and its Executive Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because ofatakeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge ofanexisting legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arisingin connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual, the Remuneration Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
Remuneration element Treatment on exit Salary Salary will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination of the salary payable during the notice period.
In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
Benefits Benefits will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the benefits payable during the notice period.
Pension Company pension contributions will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion tomake a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the Company pension contributions during thenotice period.
Annual Bonus Good leaver reason Plan f Prorated to time and performance for year of cessation.
Other leaver reason f No bonus payable for year of cessation.
52 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Remuneration element Treatment on exit Deferred Good leaver reason Bonus Plan f Retention of each subsisting deferred share award.
Other leaver reason f Lapse of any unvested deferred share awards.
Discretion The Committee has the following elements of discretion: f to determine that an Executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: f to allow immediate or deferred vesting: f to prorate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
TheCommittees policy is generally to not prorate to time: and f to determine whether to prorate based on the circumstances of the Executives departure.
LTIP Good leaver reason f Prorated to time and performance in respect of each subsisting LTIP award.
Other leaver reason f Lapse of any unvested LTIP awards.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion incircumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: f to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee willmakethis determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and f to prorate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
TheCommittees policy is generally to prorate to time.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion incircumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions, other than those set out above, agreed prior to 27 June 2012. obligations A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: f death: f ill health: f injury or disability: f redundancy: f retirement with agreement of employer: f employing company ceasing to be a Group company: f transfer of employment to a company that is not a Group company: and f at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other leaver reasons.
co. uk 53 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised on page 52 and below: Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion Annual Bonus Prorated to time and performance to the date of the The Committee has discretion to continue the Plan change of control.
operation of the Plan to the end of the bonus year.
Deferred The number of shares subject to subsisting deferred The Committee will take into account the circumstances Bonus Plan share awards on a change of control may be prorated of the change of control in determining whether to to time.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting deferred There is a presumption that the Committee will prorate LTIP awards on a change of control will be prorated to time.
The Committee will only waive prorating in to time and performance.
exceptional circumstances where it views the change of control as an event which has provided a material enhanced value to shareholders which will be fully explained to shareholders.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Company The remuneration policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
However, employee views are not specifically sought in determining this policy.
The Company does not currently use any remuneration comparison metrics.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group.
All employees are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Policy.
54 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Annual report on remuneration Introduction The following report outlines how the Policy was implemented in 2014 and how the Committeeintends to apply the Policy in 2015.
Single total figure of remuneration audited Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2014 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2013 financial year have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the new UKdisclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2014 financial year audited Salary Benefits1 Bonus LTIPs Pension2 SIP Total Name Period 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alex Chesterman 2014 302 3 158 33 3 499 2013 203 3 119 31 356 Stephen Morana 2014 223 3 3 113 16 3 358 4 2013 83 1 44 128 1 The types of benefits provided are set out in the Remuneration Policy section of this report.
2 Pension contribution was 5% of the respective salaries prior to the IPO and 15% thereafter.
3 Stephen Morana became a Non-Executive Director of boohoo.
Stephen receives and retains 40,000 per annum in respect of this role.
This amount has not been included in the single remuneration figure presented in the table.
4 Stephen Morana joined the Group on 15 April 2013 and therefore his remuneration reflects only part of the financial year.
Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director for the year from the date oftheirappointment.
2014 2013 Taxable Taxable Fees benefits Total Fees benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Roles Mike Evans Chairman 63 63 Chairman, Nomination Committee Chairman David Dutton Non-Executive Director Duncan Tatton-Brown 21 21 Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chairman Grenville Turner 11 11 Non-Executive Director Robin Klein 17 17 Non-Executive Director Sherry Coutu 21 21 Remuneration Committee Chairman Stephen Daintith Non-Executive Director Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 55 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Annual fees 2014 2013 annual fee annual fee 000 000 Chairman 150 Board fee 40 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 Chairman of Audit Committee 10 Additional information regarding single figure table audited The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder expectations, cyclicality of the markets in which the Group operates and external advice.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
Bonus awards audited In respect of the 2014 financial year, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys revenue and adjusted EBITDA performance and each Executive Directors performance against their personal objectives.
This bonus was applied tothe weighted average salary of each Director over the nine month period to 30 September 2014.
Prior to this, bonuses had been paid based on a performance period aligned with the calendar year.
The total bonus figure for the 2014 financial year therefore contains a three month allocation of the bonus paid in respect of the 2013 calendar year.
Going forward bonuses will be assessed over a performance period aligned with the financial year using the criteria outlined in the Policy on pages 46 and 47.
The 2014 bonus will be paid in cash.
For the 2015 financial year, a portion of the bonus will be deferred in shares as set out in the Remuneration Policy and Implementation of the Policy in financial year 2015.
Actual Annual bonus Annual bonus performance value achieved value achieved Name Performance criteria Weighting against target % salary 000 Alex Chesterman Revenue 33% 100% Adjusted EBITDA 33% 100% 50% 158 Personal objectives 33% 100% Stephen Morana Revenue 33% 100% Adjusted EBITDA 33% 100% 50% 113 Personal objectives 33% 100% The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to the bonus outcomes.
It is the Committees view that the personal performance conditions are commercially sensitive and therefore details cannot be disclosed.
It should be noted that the bonus plan for 2015 has been designed to allow the Committee to provide full retrospective disclosure of the level of financial performance achieved against targets set at thebeginning of the financial year.
56 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Long-term incentives awarded in 2014 audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2014 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting percentage Face value at threshold of face value Basis on which of award performance that could vest Name Award type award made 000 % % Performance conditions Alex Chesterman LTIP Annual 675 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted Stephen Morana LTIP Annual 375 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted The awards were granted on 1 August 2014 in the form of nil-cost options.
The face value is calculated using the IPO price of 220 pence.
Theperformance conditions are set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans annual statement.
The awards will vest, subject to achievingthe threshold performance level, over the period to30 September 2017.
HMRC Share Incentive Plan audited This section sets out the details of the Share Incentive Plan awards granted in the 2014 year.
This plan was available to all employees, including the Executive Directors.
There are no performance conditions attached to the grants.
However, the award of Free Shares is subject to the Directors continued employment for a period of three years from the grant date.
Each Executive Director received 1,137 Free Shares on 23 June 2014 with a face value of 2,500.
The face value of the Free Shares was calculated using the IPO price of 220 pence.
During the year each Executive Director also contributed 600 from pre-tax income to the Partnership Share element of the Plan.
Shares purchased by employees under the plan are subject to one-for-one matching by the Company.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office There were no payments in the financial year.
Statement of Directors shareholdings audited Shareholding requirements in operation at the Company are currently 100% of base salary for both the CEO and CFO.
Executive Directors arerequired to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time which would normally be five years.
The number of shares oftheCompany in which current Directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at 30 September 2014 aresetout inthe table below.
Shares held directly Other shares held Shares not LTIP interests subject to Total number Current subject to Beneficially performance of ordinary and shareholding performance Director owned1 conditions2 deferred shares % salary 3 conditions Alex Chesterman 17,300,445 1,137 17,301,582 100% 306,818 Stephen Morana 1,005,000 1,137 1,006,137 100% 170,454 1 No shares were held by any connected parties.
There has been no change in the number of shares held between 30 September 2014 and 9 December 2014.
2 The number of matching shares to be awarded under the SIP is not yet certain as the accumulation period for the purchase of Partnership Shares extends beyond the financial year end.
The number of shares will be determined at the end of the accumulation period in March 2015.
3 The closing share price of 236.60 pence as at 30 September 2014 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
Unvested LTIP shares and options do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines.
Shares awarded under the DBP and matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan will not count towards the shareholding requirement.
co. uk 57 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Statement of Directors shareholdings audited continued The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares are set out below: Shares held Director 30 September 2014 1 Mike Evans Chairman 34,494 David Dutton Duncan Tatton-Brown 22,727 Grenville Turner Robin Klein 653,246 Sherry Coutu 588,790 Stephen Daintith 1 Shares held include any shares held by connected parties.
There has been no movement in the number of shares held between 30 September 2014 and 9 December 2014.
Comparison of overall performance and pay TSR graph The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared to the FTSE 250 index.
The graph shows thetotal shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
TheCommittee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 23 June 2014 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 23 June 2014 to date of publication.
115 110 105 100 95 90 Source: Thomson Reuters DataStream Zoopla Property Group Plc FTSE 250 index 85 23 June 30 June 31 July 29 August 30 September 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 This graph shows the value by 30 September 2014 of 100 invested in Zoopla Property Group Plc on 23 June 2014 compared withthevalueof100 invested in the FTSE 250 index.
Chief Executive Officer historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the last two years valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Company has expanded quickly from a start-up company and the Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years bares any comparative value to that paid in its later years and therefore the Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the two most recent financial years: Chief Executive Officer 2014 2013 Total single figure 000 499 356 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 100% 100% It should be noted that the Company did not introduce a long term incentive plan until it listed.
Therefore, there were no awards capable ofvesting in 2013 and 2014.
58 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Value of 100 invested Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of the spend on pay in the 2014 financial year and 2013 financial year compared with other disbursements.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company accounts.
Disbursements from Disbursements from profit in 2014 profit in 2013 financial year financial year 000 000 % change Profit distributed by way of dividend1 27,879 22,406 24.4% Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 13,565 9,774 38.8% Total tax contributions2 16,812 11,821 42.2% 1 Includes dividends paid and proposed in respect of the financial year.
2 Total tax contributions include tax for period in respect of corporation tax, PAYE, national insurance contributions and VAT.
Change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer from 2013 to 2014 compared with the average percentage change for employees.
% increase in remuneration in 2014 compared with remuneration in 2013 CEO Employees Salary 48.8% 6.5% Annual bonus 32.8% 14.0% Taxable benefits 0.0% 0.0% The increase in salary for the CEO in 2014 reflects the fact that salaries for Executive Directors were benchmarked against a FTSE 250 comparative Group at the IPO and were implemented with effect from 23 June 2014.
The percentage increases for employees are based on the number of employees across the Group who were in full-time employment at both 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2014.
Implementation of the Policy in 2015 The Remuneration Committee proposes to implement the Policy for 2015, subject to shareholder approval, as set out below: Salary There are no changes to salaries for 2015.
Salary 2015 1 Name 000 Alex Chesterman 450 Stephen Morana 300 1 Salaries for Executive Directors were benchmarked against a FTSE 250 comparative Group at the IPO and were implemented with effect from 23 June 2014.
These salaries are unadjusted for the 2015 financial year.
Benefits and pension There are no proposed changes for the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
co. uk 59 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of the Policy in 2015 continued Annual bonus Operation of element Potential value Performance metrics used, weightings and time period applicable Introduction of Deferred Bonus Plan Maximum bonus opportunity Performance conditions for the 2015 financial year and which means that for the 2015 as disclosed inthe prospectus: their weighting: financial year: f CEO 125% of salary: and f EBITDA 50% : f 50% of any bonus earned will f CFO 100% of salary.
f revenue 30% : and bepaid in cash: and f personal strategic objectives 20%.
f 50% of any bonus earned will bepaid in shares which vest The details of the targets applicable to the bonus for the aftera further three years subject coming year are considered by the Committee to be to the Executive Directors commercially sensitive as they are the key metrics that continued employment.
arecritical to the operation of the Company, so they have not been disclosed as the Committee feels it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to do so.
The Committee will provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance targets for the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus earned in the context of the performance delivered.
The Committee believes that some of the personal objectives may continue to remain commercially sensitive.
Long Term Incentive Plan The August 2014 LTIP grant was made in respect of the 2015 financial year.
Therefore, there are no proposed changes for the 2015 financial year.
Operation of element Potential value Performance metrics used, weightings and time period applicable f No change.
Maximum award value as disclosed Awards will vest at the end of three years subject to the in the prospectus: achievement of the following performance conditions: f CEO 150% of salary: and f 50% EPS EPS growth of 15% p. a. for 25% of this element of the award to vest with full vesting occurring f CFO 125% of salary.
for EPS growth of 27.5% p. a. : and f 50% comparative TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity investment trusts 25% vesting of this element of the award for median TSR comparative performance with full vesting at the upper quartile.
HMRC Share Incentive Plan From 6 April 2015 the scheme will be amended so that Matching Partnership Shares are granted on a monthly basis for each Partnership Share purchased by an eligible employee.
60 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Non-Executive fees There are no changes to the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees for 2015.
Fees 2015 1 Name 000 Mike Evans 150 Duncan Tatton-Brown 50 Grenville Turner 40 Robin Klein 40 Sherry Coutu 50 1 Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were benchmarked against a FTSE 250 comparative group at the IPO and were implemented with effect from 1 July 2014.
These fees are unadjusted for the 2015 financial year.
Shareholder voting at general meeting The Policy will be put to a binding vote at the AGM on 12 February 2015.
The Chairmans annual statement and the Annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote.
This is the Companys first year as a public company and therefore the 2015 AGM will be the first.
This means that there is no historic voting to disclose on the Companys Executive remuneration.
Sherry Coutu Chairman, Remuneration Committee Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
