Introduction and annual statement With a fifth successive year Background to remuneration decisions With a fifth successive year of growth at Sukari and of growth at Sukari and completion of its capital investment, the Company is completion of its capital positioned to deliver further cash generation, shareholder returns and future growth: investment, the Company Cash generation: is positioned to deliver year gold production 377,261 ounces 6% increase further cash generation, on 2013 : Stage 4 expansion project was completed during the shareholder returns and year with throughput exceeding nameplate capacity from September 2014: future growth.
cash operating costs of US$729 per ounce in line with budget of US$700 per ounce : and safety record of 0.39 LTIFR in 2014 maintaining a good track record.
Shareholder returns: G Edward Haslam maiden interim dividend of 0.87 US cents per share paid Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in October 2014: final dividend of 1.99 US cents per share announced on 23 March 2015: and strong financial position US$125.7 million cash and cash equivalents at year end, post interim dividend.
Growth: successful completion of the recommended takeover offer of Ampella Mining Limited and the implementation of the work programmes to establish the extent of the resource: and systematic exploration continued in Ethiopia on the Companys tenements and the licences.
There are still challenges in respect of the litigation, details of which are set out in Note 20 to the financial statements.
However, from an operational and financial perspective this has been another successful year and it is within this context that the key remuneration decisions for 2014 described below have been taken by the Remuneration Committee.
72 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information We would like to thank shareholders for their constructive feedback on the remuneration report.
I will continue to engage with shareholders, proxy advisory firms and other stakeholders throughout 2015.
I have taken the views of shareholders and proxy advisory We believe this simple approach to remuneration allows services and further developed our remuneration policy a cleaner line of sight for the delivery of performance in and practice.
We would like to thank shareholders for their the short term while ensuring that the executives have a constructive feedback on the remuneration report.
I will meaningful actual shareholding to directly link their interests continue to engage with shareholders, proxy advisory firms with those of the shareholders.
There is no better union and other stakeholders throughout 2015.
The Company of interest between shareholder and executives than for has taken steps following the AGM in 2014, to address executives to be substantial shareholders in their own right.
the concerns of shareholders which resulted in 25% of The Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBPS, now in its third the shareholders voting against the remuneration report.
year, provides a simple yet effective incentive to senior The steps taken include the following: management and senior employees below board level, separate resolutions in the AGM in 2015 for the approval motivating and retaining individuals over the longer term.
of the remuneration policy and application of the policy 40 employees participate in the DBSP, including heads of on an advisory basis : department and senior personnel based onsite, as well as members of the senior management team located at the additional disclosure on executive bonus and the head office.
percentage awarded against the targets: and other improvements to the governance structure as set Changes in the Board out in the corporate governance report.
Andrew Pardey was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 February 2015 with Josef ElRaghy, interim CEO, standing Simple approach to remuneration down as CEO but continuing in his role as executive The simple approach to remuneration adopted over the Chairman.
On 26 January 2015, Bob Bowker retired from last few years will be continued through to 2015, with the office.
Trevor Schultz stood down as an executive director in three elements of base pay, contribution to a pension and May 2014 and was appointed nonexecutive director.
Key remuneration decisions for 2014 This year, following the recent appointment of our new Base salary for Josef ElRaghy, which is paid in sterling, CEO, Andrew Pardey, we are proposing the introduction of remains unchanged for the third consecutive year at a new long term incentive scheme, for approval at the AGM GBP500,000 US$821,582 for 2014 and will remain at this on 18 May 2015. level for 2015.
It is intended that Andrew Pardey CEO will participate in The bonus outcome for Josef ElRaghy for 2014 was 80% the new LTIP in 2015, although Josef ElRaghy Chairman of the maximum opportunity which equates to GBP700,000 is not due to participate in the scheme in 2015 because US$1,087,294 and represents 140% of base salary.
As Josef as a shareholder with a 6.2% interest in the Company, ElRaghy does not participate in any long term incentive he remains aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Josef plan no awards were either granted or vested and hence ElRaghys participation in the new scheme will be reviewed the annual bonus plan is the sole incentive arrangement for in 2016.
The remuneration policy described below includes Josef ElRaghy.
The bonus calculation is made by reference details of the proposed new LTIP.
to a balanced scorecard which comprises of a combination This year we have also introduced a shareholding of financial, operational and individual performance criteria.
requirement for the executive directors.
Full details are on page 81 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 73 Directors report Remuneration report continued 1.
Introduction and annual statement continued 2.
The Committee Key remuneration decisions for 2014 continued The Committee membership The executive bonus opportunity and structure for 2014 will The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the remain the same in 2015.
For the executives the maximum Company and following the retirement of Bob Bowker, is now represented by three nonexecutive directors, namely, bonus opportunity is 175%.
This bonus opportunity Edward Haslam Chairman of the committee, Mark Arnesen for executives will be reduced to a maximum bonus and Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are regarded as wholly opportunity of 125% in any year where an award under independent.
Josef ElRaghy does not currently participate in a share No member of the Committee has any financial interest, scheme and whilst permitted to participate in the new other than as shareholder, in the matters decided by the LTIP, there are no current plans to award grants to Committee.
None of the members of the Committee Josef ElRaghy.
This will be reviewed annually by the participates in any bonus scheme, long term incentive, Remuneration Committee.
pension or other form of remuneration other than the fees disclosed below and the statutory superannuation for the Following the successful completion of the Stage 4 Australian resident directors.
There is no actual or potential construction, commissioning and hand over of the conflict of interest arising from the other directorships held processing plant to operations, Trevor Schultz stood down by members of the Committee.
as an executive director and was appointed a nonexecutive on 1 May 2014.
Trevor Schultz was paid the bonus award The members of the Committee, position and attendance of A$500,000 US$443,616 in May 2014, as disclosed and details are shown in the table below.
The Company accrued in the 2013 annual report.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Trevor Schultzs fees as a nonexecutive director, effective Attendance Attendance Name Position in 2014 in 2013 from 1 May 2015, are detailed in Section 4 Annual remuneration report.
Edward Haslam Chairman 4 of 4 meetings 6 of 6 meetings Kevin Tomlinson Member 4 of 4 meetings 6 of 6 meetings It has been agreed by the Remuneration Committee that Josef ElRaghys Chairman base pay for 2015 will remain Mark Arnesen Member 4 of 4 meetings 6 of 6 meetings at the same rate for 2014.
Bob Bowker Member 4 of 4 meetings 6 of 6 meetings The Remuneration Committee will review Andrew Pardeys CEO base salary which is currently 390,000 US$640,834 and ensure the overall remuneration is in line with the market.
Any such increase will be phased in two stages over a twoyear period.
Andrew Pardey will likely be offered the following: phase one increase in base salary of between 10% and 15%: a pension, provided as a cash supplement, of between 10% and 20% of base salary: annual participation in the LTIP, with awards to be made in line with the LTIP policy: bonus opportunity of 125% of base salary on the basis awards are made under the LTIP.
The following report has been made available to the auditors:  LLP, and section 4 where indicated, Annual remuneration report has been audited by  LLP.
G Edward Haslam Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 74 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Activities of the Committee Advisers to the Committee The Committee met four times in the year and undertook During the year the Committee was supported by the the following business as indicated in the table below.
MEIS Executive Compensation Data was appointed as adviser to the Committee in respect of Committee its work on executive remuneration.
MEIS does not provide meeting date Activity any other service to the Company and is regarded as independent by the Committee.
MEIS is engaged on an 5 February 2014 Review the DRR for the annual report and finalise the 2014 remuneration policy.
annual retainer for GBP7,000 for a twelve month period.
Review the balanced scorecards and key MEIS were originally appointed on the recommendation performance measures for the executive of the Remuneration Committee and are regarded by and senior management.
the Committee as providing independent advice as they Make recommendations to the Board to have no connections with the directors and officers of the grant shares to new and existing participants Company other than this engagement.
of the deferred bonus share plan to senior employees.
Josef ElRaghy may attend meetings of the Committee to Confirmed the forfeiture of awards under make recommendations relating to the performance and the executive director loan funded share plan, as the performance criteria were not remuneration of his direct reports but neither he nor the achieved and noted that there were no Company Secretary are in attendance at meetings when further participants under this scheme.
their own remunerations are under consideration.
13 May 2014 Review of the feedback from shareholders 3.
Our remuneration policy and proxy advisory organisations in relation to the DRR and remuneration policy.
Introduction Finalising the awards to the new and existing The remuneration report including the policy and members of the deferred bonus share plan.
application of the policy was put to shareholders on an 1 September 2014 Detailed review of the proxy advisory advisory basis at the AGM in 2014 and the resolution feedback and action plan to address any was passed by a 74% majority.
and application of the policy will be subject to separate Review the proposal to develop a long term nonbinding advisory vote at the AGM on 18 May 2015. incentive plan for executive directors, for The remuneration policy will be effective following approval by the shareholders.
11 December 2014 Performance reviews for the executive and management team, taking account of the In developing its remuneration policy the Committee has balanced scorecards, industry benchmarking had regard to the fact that the business of the Company and making recommendations to the Board is operated outside the UK and in a market which requires for executive and management bonuses.
Review of nonexecutive director fees.
the engagement: motivation and retention of very Further analysis on the proposed particular operational and managerial personnel and skills.
performance criteria for a new LTIP and The remuneration policy therefore seeks to: finalising the remuneration policy for approval at the AGM in 2015. position remuneration packages to ensure that they Evaluation of the committee and charter.
remain competitive, taking account of all elements of remuneration and be reflective of the performance of Terms of reference the Company: The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the use external benchmark data on a transparent and open charter which was updated in 2014 and includes: basis using comparator groups that reflect the industry the remuneration, recruitment, retention, termination, and size of the Company: superannuation and incentive policies and procedures for provide incentive arrangements for relevant employees executives and senior management: and that are based upon preagreed performance criteria the performance conditions, criteria and policies for the against which individuals will then be tested.
Such Groups employee and executive incentive share plans.
incentives should be relevant and stretching: provide long term incentives that encourage the involvement, in the long term, of the performance of the Company: and encourage executives, and in particular executive directors, to build and then maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 75 Directors report Remuneration report continued 3.
Our remuneration policy continued Introduction continued Remuneration policy for executive directors Element Objective Details For 2014 For 2015 Base pay Base pay to be Pay is reviewed annually and any change The base salary for 2014 There is no set competitively ordinarily takes effect from the 1 January.
was as follows: intended change in so as to allow the the policy for 2015 Salaries are benchmarked against a number Josef ElRaghy motivation and and no increase is of comparator groups as described below to GBP500,000 retention of key to be awarded on provide a balanced approach.
executives of the the 2014 base pay take account of those of the general workforce.
calibre and skills figures for Josef Increases will take account of the performance necessary to support ElRaghy.
of the individual and the benchmarked data Centamins short Following the but any increase which exceeds that of the and long term changes to the general work force may only normally be objectives.
Board in 2015, awarded in cases as a result of a change in a review of the responsibility, or the complexity and nature remuneration for of the role or size of the organisation or the CEO, Chairman the pay level becoming out of line with the and SNED will take market data.
Benefits Benefits may be The normal benefits that may be provided No benefits.
Normal benefits provided where include such items as car or car allowance, and additional necessary to life assurance, private medical provision, benefits will not ensure competitive subscriptions and phones.
Normal benefits will exceed 15% of remuneration not currently exceed 5% of base pay.
packages are Where necessary, due to the location of consistent with operations of the business, it may be necessary the market.
to provide additional benefits such as private security, accommodation and reasonable travel costs or enhanced provision of other benefits.
Additional benefits may not exceed 10% of base pay.
Therefore normal benefits and additional benefits will not currently exceed 15% of base pay.
Pension Positioned to A payment in lieu of pension will be made Josef ElRaghy receives There is no ensure competitive between 10% and not more than 20% of base a cash payment in lieu of intended change packages and pay.
Where any payment is require to be made a pension equivalent to to the pension provision of under a statutory provision then this amount 20% of his base salary.
contribution for appropriate income will be included within the above limit.
for executives in A pension retirement.
contribution between 10% and 20% of salary for Andrew Pardey will be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
76 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy for executive directors Element Objective Details For 2014 For 2015 Annual bonus To provide a driver Performance criteria, which are set at the Bonus maximum Bonus maximum and reward for the beginning of each year, are based upon a opportunity of 175%.
opportunity of delivery of short balanced scorecard approach.
The balanced Actual outcome for Josef 175%, reducing term performance scorecard shall be based 70% on financial, ElRaghy was 80% of to a maximum goals, normally over operational and strategic targets and 30% on maximum.
opportunity of the course of the individual key tasks.
125% of base salary financial year.
in any year an The performance measures are selected to award is made to provide an appropriate balance between an executive under incentivising executive directors to meet the new LTIP.
financial operational targets for the year and incentivising them to achieve specific strategic objectives.
In selecting the performance conditions for each year, consideration will be given to market expectations and the performance measures that are generally regarded as reflective of the performance of the industry.
These will normally be selected from financial performance measures profitability, cost against budget and operational efficiency, strategic measures M&A opportunities, exploration and project delivery, corporate measures health and safety and corporate governance and individual tasks.
For executive directors, the maximum annual bonus opportunity is 175% of base salary, however a lower amount will be set for executive directors who participate in the proposed LTIP.
On target bonus is just above half of the maximum opportunity at 57% of the maximum.
The Committee may apply claw back to any bonus where the Committee is of the view that facts have come to light, which had they been known at the time would have affected the Committees decision to pay part or all of any bonus.
Long term To align the A new long term incentive scheme in proposed No LTIs awarded to Awards to Andrew incentives interests of the for approval at the 2015 AGM.
Pardey are proposed executive with that following approval of Details of the new LTIP are set out in section 6 of the shareholders the LTIP at the AGM on page 85. through a in May 2015.
For management, but not directors, the meaningful The LTIP is available Company has a deferred bonus scheme as ownership of shares.
to all executives part of the annual bonus.
The Company can and senior require up to 100% of a bonus to be deferred management, into shares.
Such shares will then be released however there are typically as to a third at the end of each 12, 24 no current plans and 36 month period.
to make awards to Josef ElRaghy.
Share To encourage While there was no formal shareholding No formal policy.
Executive directors ownership ownership of requirement for executive directors in 2014, Josef ElRaghy has a are required to requirement shares and thereby it is proposed in the remuneration policy that shareholding equivalent build a holding create a link of a formal policy be adopted in 2015. to 9,288% of base pay of shares in interest between which represents 6.2% the Company shareholder and as a direct shareholding equivalent to 150% the executives.
in the Company this of base salary over includes certain shares a five year period held by the ElRaghy from appointment.
Vested shares are to be included in the calculation.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 77 Directors report Remuneration report continued 3.
Our remuneration policy continued In the case that the Company wishes to terminate the agreement and make a payment in lieu of notice, this Policy if a new director is appointed payment shall be phased in monthly or quarterly instalments The Company has a track record of succession planning and over a period of no longer than twelve months or the notice growing and promoting talent internally as demonstrated by period if less and that any payment should be reduced the appointment of the new CEO.
in accordance with the duty on the executive to mitigate When hiring a new executive director, or promoting an his loss.
The Company will consider if any bonus amount individual to the Board, the Committee will offer a package is to be included in the calculation when determining that is sufficient to attract and motivate while aiming to pay the payment in lieu of notice.
Any bonus if included at no more than is necessary taking account of market data, all would be restricted to the directors actual period of the impact on other existing remuneration arrangements, service only.
the candidates location and experience, external market In the case of notice given in connection with and influences and internal pay relativities.
shortly following a change of control then in the case The structure of the remuneration package of a new of Josef ElRaghy he is entitled to payment in lieu of an executive director will follow the policy above, however amount equal to twelve months basic salary plus bonus.
in certain circumstances, the Committee may use other Any bonus that may be due to him at the completion elements of remuneration if it considers appropriate with of the change of control, shall be determined by the due regard to the best interests of the shareholders.
Remuneration Committee and such bonus if any would In particular, a service contract that contains a longer initial be based on the period only up to the completion of the notice period, tapering down to twelve months over a change of control, taking account of all the relevant key set period of time, the buyout of short and or long term performance indicators.
incentive arrangements taking account of the performance Claw back provisions for executive directors relate to bonus measures on such incentives as close as possible on a and holiday taken in advance.
comparable basis, the provision of long term incentives and the provision of benefits such as housing allowance In relation to the LTIP, the Companys approach to payment or similar particularly where it is an expatriate appointment.
on loss of office will take account of the circumstances of the termination of employment.
In the case of a good leaver The Committee may, where necessary and in the interest then the individual will be expected to work through the of shareholders, also offer recruitment incentives to facilitate notice period and will be entitled to all the benefits under the recruitment of an appropriate individual subject to the the service agreement during that period.
following limits: In the case of a termination as a result of poor performance annual bonus plus buy out short term incentives as or a breach of any of the material terms of the agreement described above will not exceed 175% of base pay: and then all unvested awards and all vested but unreleased long term incentives will be limited to an aggregate of awards will lapse.
250% in the first year or where there is a buyout of long term incentives as described above to 150%.
In the case of death, annual bonus will be determined by the Remuneration Committee, which shall determine To facilitate the buyout awards outlined above the the bonus to be paid taking account of the duration in Committee may grant awards to a new executive director employment and performance of the Company and long under the Listing Rule 9.4.
The total package offered to a term incentives shall be treated in the same way as a new recruit will not exceed the overall limits set out in the good leaver.
Policy on external board appointments Policy on payment for loss of office The Company encourages the executive directors to The Companys approach to payment on loss of office have nonexecutive external appointments provided that will take account of the circumstances of the termination such appointments do not adversely impact on the duties of employment.
In the case of a good leaver then the required to be performed to the Company.
Where there are individual will be expected to work through the notice external appointments the director will retain any fees for period and will be entitled to all the benefits under the such appointments and will not be liable to account to the service agreement during that period.
In the case of a termination as a result of poor performance Of the executives, Trevor Schultz received remuneration or a breach of any of the material terms of the agreement during 2014 from another external appointment with then the Company may terminate with immediate effect Base Resources Limited amounting to US$70,000.
without notice and with no liability to make any further payment to the individual other than in respect of amounts accrued due at the date of termination.
78 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy for nonexecutive directors Element Objective Details For 2014 For 2015 Nonexecutive To attract and Nonexecutive directors receive annual The fees were reviewed The fees payable director fees retain high calibre fees within an aggregate directors fee pool in 2013 and the following to the senior nonexecutive limited to an amount which is approved applied from 1 April 2013: nonexecutive directors by by shareholders.
director will be basic fee GBP65,000 the provision of reviewed during Fees are reviewed every two years against US$106,806 : competitive fees.
the same comparator groups as used for the chair of a Committee executive directors.
The fees for GBP10,000 the other US$16,432 : and Nonexecutive directors do not participate in nonexecutives will any incentive arrangements.
member of a next be reviewed Committee GBP5,000 Special arrangements exist regarding the fees for 2016.
for the senior independent nonexecutive the fees will remain director while the roles of CEO and Chairman as for 2013. were combined.
This arrangement is under review while the orderly hand over of Chairman duties is returned to the Chairman.
The nonexecutive directors do not participate There is no in any short or long term incentive plans.
intended change in the policy for 2014.
Remuneration arrangement across the Company For Josef ElRaghy the graphs assumes a base salary as disclosed in this report of GBP500,000, pension Our remuneration policy for executive directors is consistent contributions of 20% of base being GBP100,000 and bonus with that across the Company and aims to attract and from zero at the minimum, to 50% of 175% at target, and retain highperforming individuals and to reward success.
There are no benefits or Base pay and benefits are set competitively taking account long term incentive elements.
of the individuals performance and market data.
Annual incentives are typically linked to local business performance For Andrew Pardey, the graphs assume a base salary of with a focus on performance against key strategic business GBP390,000, pension contributions of up to 20% of base objectives.
Key management team members may also and bonus from zero, to 50% of 125% at target and 125% receive some of their annual bonus in shares which are of base for the maximum.
The graph assumes that Andrew deferred.
At this time there are no all employee share Pardey will be awarded shares under the terms of the new arrangements but this is kept under review on a regular basis LTIP of 150% of his base salary with an initial award of up to taking account of the locations the Company operates in and 150% of his base salary.
For the LTI the assumed values are the appropriateness of share base rewards in such locations.
zero for minimum, to 50% of the face value of the award at target and the face value of the award for the maximum.
All employees of Sukari Gold Mine Company the majority of whom are based at the Sukari mine site are subject to a Implementation of policy performance related bonus which is linked to the underlying The Company intends to implement the remuneration operation performance, and cost control measures at the policy for 2015 as detailed in this report on remuneration.
Further details on employee relations can be found in the CSR report.
Annual remuneration report What did the executive and nonexecutive directors earn in 2014?
Josef ElRaghy is paid in sterling and his base salary remained unchanged for the third consecutive year at GBP500,000 per annum.
The amounts shown in salary in the table above for Trevor Schultz include Egyptian income taxes paid by the Company on behalf of Trevor Schultz.
During 2014 Egyptian income taxes paid by the Company on behalf of Trevor Schultz amounted to US$68,026 in 2014 2013: US$144,580.
Superannuation is payable to Bob Bowker and Mark Arnesen and this is included in the pension column.
Directors remuneration paid in foreign currency was converted at an average rate during the year.
The average A$:US$ exchange rate for 2014 is 0.8973 and the average GBP:US$ exchange rate for 2014 is 1.6431.
Bonus accruals for 2014 applied an exchange rate of A$:US$0.8156 and GBP:US$1.5533.
The pension payable to Josef ElRaghy represents a cash payment in lieu of contributions to a pension scheme.
The bonus for Trevor Schultz represents the bonus accrued in 2013 which was paid following the successful completion of Stage 4, commission and hand over of the plant to operations in 2014, as disclosed in the 2013 annual report.
Trevor served as an executive director until April 2014 and was appointed a nonexecutive on 1 May 2014.
The salary paid to Trevor Schultz includes accumulated entitlement for the period to 30 April 2014, with fees paid as a nonexecutive director, effective from 1 May 2014.
Nonexecutive director fees Nonexecutive directors receive annual fees within an aggregate directors fee pool limited to an amount which is approved by shareholders.
The Committee reviews and recommends, for Board approval, remuneration levels and policies for directors within this overall directors fee pool.
The fees which are paid are also periodically reviewed.
The current annual fee rate for nonexecutive directors is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2013 2014 Annual base fee GBP65,000 US$106,806 GBP65,000 US$101,674 Chairman of a Board Committee GBP10,000 US$16,432 GBP10,000 US$15,642 Member of a Board Committee GBP5,000 US$8,216 GBP5,000 US$7,821 Senior independent nonexecutive director GBP10,000 US$16,432 GBP10,000 US$15,642 when not performing the role in Note 1 1.
With effect from 1 April 2013, the fees payable to Gordon Edward Haslam in his capacity as senior independent director were increased to take account of the additional duties undertaken while the roles of CEO and Chairman were combined.
The total fees paid to him, on an annual basis, were GBP150,000 US$244,228 per year.
Following the changes to the Board in 2015, these fees will be subject to a review during 2015.
However, given that the Company has an executive Chairman, it is anticipated that he will continue with an enhanced role with fees commensurate with that role.
In keeping with the Companys policy, Mr Haslam did not and will not participate in any meeting discussing his fees.
These amounts include any statutory superannuation payments where applicable.
The Company reviewed the NED fees during 2014.
No increases in NED fees were proposed in 2015.
The nonexecutive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share plans or incentive plans.
80 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Base pay Annual bonus Remuneration of the executive directors and the senior The bonus plan for the executive directors is based upon a management team is considered against three criteria balanced scorecard approach designed to encourage and general pay levels and pay increases throughout the reward the delivery of operational performance.
For Josef Company, the performance and skills of the individual ElRaghy the bonus is split 70% business and 30% individual and market data.
targets as follows: In respect of market data for the executive directors and 70% the business targets are based on: the senior management team, a selection of five different 40% financial profitability financial position, cost comparator groups are used in order to gain a balanced against budget and operational efficiency : view of the market data.
These comparator groups consist 20% strategic measures M&A opportunities, of a bespoke list of UK and international mining companies, exploration in Egypt and other locations, companies with a similar market capitalisation, companies project delivery : and with a similar turnover, the Mining Sector and the FTSE 250.
10% corporate corporate governance improvements, Any increase which exceeds that of the general work force health and safety, production guidance and CSR may only normally be awarded in cases as a result of change development.
in responsibility, or the complexity and nature of the role or 30% the individual tasks are based on building size of the organisation or the pay level becoming out of management team and motivation, formalisation line with the market data.
and communications of business strategy, in country stakeholder management and shareholder relations.
Pay is reviewed annually and any changes ordinarily take effect from the 1 January.
However, with the appointment The following graph shows the balance of the of a new CEO in February 2015, the annual review of pay performance criteria.
for 2015 has been deferred to May 2015.
Performance criteria Taking account of market data has however been determined that there will be no increases in base pay for 30 2015 for Josef ElRaghy.
Therefore the base pay for Josef ElRaghy of GBP500,000 US$821,582 will remain at this level during 2015.
The appointment of the new CEO, Andrew Pardey will likely see a change in his remuneration package over the next 10 24 months which may include an increase of base salary in 40 line with the market, a cash payment in lieu of a pension 20 equivalent of between 10% and 20% of his base salary and annual awards under the new LTIP equivalent to 150% of base salary with an initial annual award of 150%.
Financial and Corporate Corporate operational Strategic Individual KPI Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 81 Directors report Remuneration report continued 4.
Annual remuneration report continued 2015 bonus 2014 bonus audited The bonus for 2015 will be based upon the balanced scorecard approach above: In reviewing performance against the criteria and in arriving at the decision the committee considered the key 70% the business targets: milestones achieved during the year which Josef ElRaghy 40% financial an improvement in profitability, cost was instrumental in delivering, which included the following: against budget and operational efficiency : Financial and operational: 20% strategic measures M&A opportunities, profitability financial position recommending and exploration in Egypt and other locations, paying to shareholders the Companys maiden dividend: project delivery : and profitability financial position strong financial position 10% corporate corporate governance improvements, US$125.7 million cash and cash equivalents at year end health and safety, production guidance CSR after the payment of an interim US$106 million cash and development.
cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 : 30% the individual tasks are based on building cost against budget cash operating costs of US$729 management team and motivation, formalisation per ounce slightly above budget of US$700 per ounce : and communication of business strategy, in country stakeholder management and shareholder relations.
production achievement annual gold production These tasks will include: 377,261 ounces 5% increase on 2013 : and operational efficiency processing throughput above orderly handover of CEO responsibilities to the expanded 10Mtpa nameplate capacity in the Andrew Pardey: fourth quarter.
direct stakeholder and investor engagement to include attending and presenting at roadshows and Strategic: conferences throughout the year: and M&A opportunities successfully completing the maintaining his role as the Companys Egyptian recommended takeover of Ampella: political interface.
exploration in Egypt and other locations systematic exploration continued in Ethiopia on the Companys For Andrew Pardey the bonus opportunity will be based tenements and those licences: and on a balance scorecard approach which will be finalised by the Committee in May 2015, but will apply similar business project delivery completing the investment phase of targets as identified above.
Further details on performance targets cannot be disclosed Corporate: as these are commercially sensitive.
corporate governance improvements engagement programme with shareholders: Pension arrangements and benefits in kind audited corporate governance improvements appointment of Josef ElRaghy is entitled to a payment in respect of CEO and separation of CEO and Chairman roles: and pension entitlement equal to 20% of base pay.
Andrew health and safety safety record of 0.39 LTIFR in 2014 Pardey is likely to be entitled to a pension entitlement of up maintaining a good track record although below the rate to 20% of base pay.
Other than statutory superannuation for in 2013.
Australian resident directors, Bob Bowker and Mark Arnesen and the payments in lieu of pension above, no pensions or Individual KPIs: payments in lieu of pensions are made.
securing approval for the increase in the daily supply Long term incentives shares award table audited of AN: and Josef ElRaghy does not currently participate in any long M&A activity culminated in a recommended takeover term incentive arrangement.
There is a deferred share plan offer of Ampella Mining Limited to extend exploration for senior management.
Andrew Pardey has participated in into prospective Burkina Faso.
this plan but is no longer eligible for new awards following On this basis the Committee determined that 80% of the his appointment to the Board.
Full details can be found maximum bonus, of 175% of Josef ElRaghys 2014 base section 6 below.
This resulted in a payment of Payment to past directors GBP700,000 US$1,087,294.
There are no payments to directors for loss of office.
Further details on performance targets cannot be disclosed Payment for loss of office audited as these are commercially sensitive.
There are no payments to past directors of the Company.
82 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Performance measure: % Target: % Max % Awarded of target Subtotal Financial and 40% 70% 80% 32% operational Financial and operational Strategic 20% 35% 80% 16% Corporate 10% 17.5% 90% 9% Individual Individual KPI 30% 52.5% 75% 23% Total 100% 175% 80% Service agreements for directors Service agreements for executive directors Consistent with current best practice the executive directors have rolling contracts with notice periods of twelve months or less.
Letters of appointment for nonexecutive directors Under the Articles of Association adopted by the Company all directors are now subject to annual reelection.
All members of the Board offered themselves for either election or reelection at the last Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Copies of the appointment letters including the terms of service are available at the Companys registered office or at the Annual General Meeting.
Each of the nonexecutive directors have formal letters of appointment and there is no provision for payments for loss of office.
Josef ElRaghy Andrew Pardey Date of 1 September 2010 as amended subsequently.
1 February 2015. agreement Notice Twelve months notice from either party.
Three months notice from either party.
period Expiry date No fixed expiry date as rolling contract.
No fixed expiry date as rolling contract.
Pension Entitlement to 20% of base pay.
Benefits Entitlement in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Entitlement in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Annual Eligible to participate in an annual bonus arrangement as Eligible to participate in an annual bonus arrangement as bonus determined by the Committee from time to time.
determined by the Committee from time to time.
Long term Eligible to participate in the new LTIP.
Eligible to participate in the new LTIP.
incentives Termination Entitled to be paid salary and pension in respect of the Entitled to be paid salary and pension in respect of the relevant payment relevant notice period.
In the case of notice given in notice period.
In the case of notice given in connection with connection with and shortly following a change of control, and shortly following a change of control, Andrew Pardey will Josef ElRaghy will be entitled to payment in lieu of an be entitled to payment in lieu of an amount equal to twelve amount equal to twelve months basic salary together months basic salary together with any bonus that, in the opinion with any bonus that, in the opinion of the Remuneration of the Remuneration Committee, would have been due to him at Committee, would have been due to him at the time the time of the completion of the change of control taking into of the completion of the change of control taking into account all the relevant performance indicators.
account all the relevant performance indicators.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 83 Directors report Remuneration report continued 4.
Annual remuneration report continued Directors shareholdings audited There is no formal shareholding requirement but the executive directors are encouraged to hold a meaningful quantity of shares.
The following table shows the current shareholding of each of the directors at the date of this report.
Josef ElRaghy and family currently own 6.2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
2 Includes shares granted under the EDLFSP which lapsed in 2014 as the performance conditions were not met.
Comparative remuneration data Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The graph below compares the TSR of the Company to the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Mining indices.
The graphs show the return for the last five years.
Centamin plc FTSE 350 Mining FTSE 250 200 150 100 50 0 4 Jan 2010 4 Jan 2011 3 Jan 2012 2 Jan 2013 2 Jan 2014 31 Dec 2014 The Remuneration Committee considers that these indices are appropriate comparators of the Company.
Percentage change in remuneration Long term incentives The Company has chosen the comparator group as Annual vesting as all the employees of the Centamin Group excluding Single figure bonus as % percentage nonexecutive directors.
For 2011 the maximum bonus opportunity was A$1m.
The total number of individuals employed by the Centamin For 2012 and 2013 the maximum bonus opportunity was Group in 2014 were 1,413 2013: 1,387 employees.
The Loan Funded Share Plan award made in 2011 to Josef ElRaghy was voluntarily forfeited in 2012 for no compensation.
84 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
Long term incentive arrangements Model Code that binds the Company.
Awards may not be made following the expiry of ten years from the date of Introduction adoption of the Plan.
Neither executive director currently participates in any long term incentive arrangement.
There is a deferred share plan The shares to be transferred pursuant to vested awards for senior management detailed below.
Andrew Pardey was may either be newly issued shares, treasury shares, or a member of this scheme but is no longer eligible for new existing shares to be transferred pursuant to the Companys awards following his appointment as director.
employee benefits trust, the trustees of which are Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited.
Centamin is proposing the introduction of a new long term incentive scheme, for approval at the AGM on 18 May 2015.
C Antidilution and scheme limits The aim of the Plan is to introduce a long term incentive The overall number of shares transferred or transferable plan that can provide a suitable recruitment and retention pursuant to awards, when aggregated with all employee tool for any new or promoted executives and in particular share plans operated by the Company dilutive shares individuals at executive director level.
The Plan, which cannot exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the complies with best practice guidelines, is to provide a Company in any ten year rolling period when added platform, as part of the remuneration policy, to be used to to the dilutive shares.
provide a long term reward tool for participants.
Full details can be found in the appendix to this report below.
The overall number of shares transferred or transferable pursuant to awards for the benefit of executives, when New long term incentive plan aggregated with all executive share plans operated by the Restricted share plan Plan Company executive dilutive shares cannot exceed 5% of The Plan provides the right for the Company to grant the issued share capital of the Company in any ten year awards to employees of the Company or any of its rolling period when added to the executive dilutive shares.
Awards may take the form of: For the purposes of these limits, treasury shares will count as a conditional share awards, where shares are transferred newly issued shares where required by institutional investor conditionally upon the satisfaction of performance guidelines.
Awards or other rights to acquire shares which conditions: or b share options which may take the form have lapsed or have been renounced do not count towards of nil cost options or have a nominal exercise price, this limit.
the exercise of which is again subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
The aggregate market value of any award received by an award holder may not assessed on the value of the shares Conditional share awards and options together constitute at the date of granting the award, exceed 150% of the awards under the Plan and those in receipt of awards are award holders total remuneration as at the date of the award holders.
In circumstances the Remuneration A Eligibility Committee determine as being exceptional, that Awards may be granted under the Plan to all persons who limit may be increased to 250% by the Remuneration at the date at which the award is granted under the Plan are Committee for a particular award.
employees of the Group, though at present it is envisaged that D Award price Awards will be reserved for senior management in the Group.
Award holders are not required to make any payment to The Remuneration Committee decides to whom awards participate in the Plan and no price is payable by the award are granted, the number of ordinary shares falling under an holders to enable shares to be transferred in satisfaction award and the precise nature of the performance conditions.
Options will either have no No awards may be granted more than ten years after the date exercise price or a nominal exercise price.
on which the Plan was adopted by the Company.
B Granting of awards Awards may be granted under the Plan at any point during the 28 day period following adoption of the Plan, the 42 day period following the announcement of the annual results of the Company or at any other period in which the directors of the Company deem that awards should be granted due to exceptional circumstances.
In no circumstances shall awards be made at a time when their grant would be prohibited by or in breach of any law, regulation with force of law, or rule of an investment exchange on which shares are listed or traded, part of the Model Code or any other nonstatutory rule with a purpose similar to any part of the Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 85 Directors report Remuneration report continued 6.
Long term incentive arrangements continued The above measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the Remuneration Committee will have New long term incentive plan continued regard to current market practice when establishing the E Vesting of awards precise performance conditions for awards.
Awards will vest following the passing of three years from the date of the award.
Vesting will be subject to Where the performance conditions have been met, in the satisfaction of Performance Conditions.
For the purpose case of conditional awards, 50% of the total shares under the of the performance conditions, the award will be divided award will be issued or transferred to the award holders on into up to three tranches to be assessed against separate or as soon as possible following the specified vesting date, performance conditions measured over a three year period.
with the remaining 50% being issued or transferred on the Although the precise performance conditions may vary second anniversary of the vesting date.
In the case of options, between awards, at the date of adoption of the Plan, the following the vesting date the options will then be exercisable intention is that the performance conditions will be assessed with the resulting shares being issued or transferred to as follows: the award holders on or as soon as possible following the exercise, with the remaining 50% being issued or transferred 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a on the second anniversary of the vesting date.
target total shareholder return TSR.
If the top end of the TSR target is met currently anticipated to be if the F Exit events Company is ranked equal to or better than the upper In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement, quarter total shareholder return of selected comparator winding up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, the companies, see below all 20% of the award tranche vesting of an award may be accelerated.
If the Company is ranked at the median level the shares subject to an award equivalent to proportion in a table of comparator companies by reference to of the vesting period which has passed at the date of TSR, 25% of the award tranche shall vest i. e. 5% of the the exit event rounded down to the nearest month shall award.
Proportionate amounts of the award tranche will vest, subject to the extent the performance conditions vest for results in between.
The comparator group is as have been met, to be determined at the discretion of the follows: Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd, AngloGold Ashanti, Remuneration Committee.
Centerra Gold, Eldorado Gold, Gold Fields Ltd, Kinross In the event of an internal reorganisation of the Group Gold Corporation, IMGold Resources Inc, Petropavlovsk, which results in a new holding company and where the Polyus Gold, Randgold Resources, Yamana Gold, Inc, shareholders of the new holding company, immediately Acacia Mining plc African Barrick, Alacer Gold, B2 Gold after it has obtained control, are substantially the same as Corp and Endeavour Mining: the shareholders of the Company, awards may not vest or 50% of the Award shall be assessed by reference to lapse but will be replaced by new awards over shares in the absolute growth in earnings per share EPS.
compound annual growth rate in EPS of the Company of 12% is achieved, all 50% of the award tranche shall G Leavers vest.
If a compound annual growth rate in EPS of the Where an award holder leaves employment with the Group, Company of 8% is achieved 25% of the award tranche their award will immediately suspend and will lapse upon shall vest i. e. 12.5% of the Award.
Proportionate the expiry of 30 days from the date of leaving, unless the amounts of the award tranche will vest for results in Remuneration Committee determines that the award between.
With the onset of profit share expected holder should be entitled to retain their award.
Where the from 2017 likely to impact the growth of EPS, the Remuneration Committee permits the leaver to retain their Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to award, a proportion of the award will vest over a proportion make a fair and equitable adjustment, if necessary, to of the award shares which is equivalent to the proportion reflect the impact of profit share when assessing the of the vesting period which has passed at the date of growth over the period of the grant.
Any such adjustment leaving rounded down to the nearest month subject to will be discussed with key shareholders at the time: and the extent the performance conditions have been met, 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to to be determined at the discretion of the Remuneration compound growth in gold production.
The resulting shares will be issued or transferred annual growth rate of 10% of gold production is to the award holder on the date they would have received achieved, all 30% of the award tranche shall vest.
them, had they not left subject to the same transfer in two If a compound annual growth rate of 6% of gold equal tranches.
production is achieved 25% of the award tranche shall An award granted under the Plan is not transferable.
Awards vest i. e. 7.5% of the award.
Proportionate amounts of will also lapse if an award holder is declared bankrupt or the award tranche will vest for results in between.
attempts to assign their award.
86 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information H Status of shares On 4 June 2013, the Company offered to participants of existing plans the opportunity to replace awards with an The shares acquired under the Plan will rank pari passu with initial one off award under the deferred bonus share plan the Companys issued ordinary shares.
and in June 2014, the participants who met the vesting I Pensionable benefits criteria, received their first tranche, representing one third of The value of any benefit realised under the Plan by award the original award.
In addition, a further grant was awarded holders shall not be taken into account in determining any to new and existing participants which will vest over the next pension or similar entitlements.
J Alteration of awards The plan is not open to directors of the Company and any If there is a variation of the share capital of the Company, shares used for the plan are not newly issued shares.
including a rights issue, consolidation, subdivision or Historic long term incentive plan summary reduction of share capital that effects the value of awards Employee Loan Funded Share Plan ELFSP under the Plan, the Remuneration Committee may adjust There are no outstanding awards under this plan and the awards in a manner that they deem to be fair and there is no intention to make further awards under this reasonable.
In any such circumstances, in the case of awards plan.
This was the rollover plan for the Centamin Egypt which are options, such an adjustment may not increase the Ltd 2011 ELFSP.
Under the plan, employees receive a loan exercise price of the options.
to buy shares in the Company.
The shares were then held K Amendments to the Plan and assumption of awards in trust for the employee and at the end of three years The Plan may at any time, on the recommendation of the the employees can repay the loan and receive the shares.
Remuneration Committee be amended or added to in This plan is no longer in use.
any respect, provided that prior approval of the Company Director loan funded share plan 2011 has been obtained in a general meeting for alterations or There are no outstanding awards under this plan and as additions to the rules of the Plan which are to the advantage the performance criteria were not met, the awards to the of award holders in respect of the rules governing eligibility, remaining participants lapsed in 2014.
The plan is no longer entitlement to acquisition of shares under an award, to in use.
whom awards can be granted, Plan limits and individual limits on participation and the adjustment of awards on a Employee share option plan variation of share capital.
Awards granted under previous There are no outstanding awards under this plan and the schemes operated by the Company may be assumed into, plan is no longer in use.
Awards under the plan were subject or satisfied under, the Plan.
to performance criteria for senior management based upon Minor amendments to benefit the administration of the share price, financial, production or key tasks.
Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain Statement of shareholder voting or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory At the AGM of the Company on the 16 May 2014 the treatment for award holders or Group companies would not following votes for and against the adoption of the require approval in a general meeting.
remuneration report were as follows: The right is also reserved up to the date of shareholder For Against Withheld approval of the Plan to make such amendments to the Plan as are considered appropriate, provided they do not conflict Number 392,308,097 137,672,263 137,834,974 in any material respect with this summary of the rules of of votes 74.02% 25.98% the Plan.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and Deferred bonus scheme not for directors signed on its behalf by: This plan, introduced in 2012, allows the annual bonus to be matched with shares which are then ordinarily released in three annual tranches, conditional upon the continued G Edward Haslam employment with the Group.
The plan was introduced as a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 March 2015 review of annual bonus arrangements for management with the objectives of: increasing the variable pay element of remuneration: introducing a new retention element in the remuneration package: and linking part of that reward to the medium term share performance of the Company.
