63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REPORT The new executive incentive arrangement is better aligned with the strategic direction and evolved shape of the Group.
Total remuneration for our Executive Directors includes variable performance related pay.
Lesley Knox Performance is measured against our key performance indicators.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Key Performance Indicators 18 Performance against the long-term financial targets resulted in On behalf of the Board I am pleased to EPS growth falling short of the RPI 3% per annum minimum present the Remuneration Committees hurdle whilst the absolute aggregate economic profit exceeded the minimum threshold of 2.6billion by 21million.
The vesting level from the long-term awards related to the 2012 Once again my summary of the year extends over the following to 2014 three-year period appropriately reflected the mixed two pages and includes a quick overview of performance targets performance across the range of KPIs, an outcome which the and outcomes as well as the total remuneration opportunity and Committee felt reflected the true underlying performance of the total remuneration received in respect of the 2014 performance business.
year for Executive Directors Executives.
Prior to the beginning of 2014, the Committee had set out Both Nick Luff and Chris Weston resigned during the year, future plans to review and revise the incentive arrangements for forfeiting their potential annual incentive and long-term incentive Executives, as the existing schemes come to an end.
Therefore they are not included in the summary.
during the year we undertook two shareholder consultation exercises.
The first with a group of major shareholders to explore For 2014, the total variable earning opportunity remained the appetite for far reaching reform of our Executive remuneration unchanged from the prior year and stretching performance arrangements and the second with a larger group of major measures were set by the Committee.
shareholders to seek views on a proposed new programme Downstream, trading conditions remained challenging, with record developed with feedback from the first consultation in mind.
mild weather in the UK, extreme cold weather in North America I am pleased to set out in the policy section of this report the early in the year, and a highly competitive market environment on resulting proposal for a new Executive incentive arrangement both sides of the Atlantic.
Accordingly, BritishGas, Direct Energy to apply from 27 April 2015 onwards.
The new arrangement and the Group as a whole failed to reach the target operating profit represents a simplification of scheme design, a reduced overall level set by the Committee.
incentive opportunity and better alignment with the strategic In Centrica Energy, nuclear output in UK power generation was direction and evolved shape of the Group.
lower than expected, reflecting the temporary shut-down of four During the year the Committee held 10 meetings.
Upstream gas post-tax earnings in the year were largely and agreed the structure of the two new Executive incentive plans protected from falling wholesale prices by the impact of hedging, that form the short and long-term elements of the proposed new tax allowances and strong midstream performance.
As a result, Remuneration Policy as well as the targets, outcomes and vesting Centrica Energy marginally exceeded its operating profit target.
levels for the existing plans.
The remuneration arrangements for Health and safety performance remained strong during the year.
Iain Conn, the new Chief Executive, were also debated along with Our employee engagement score declined slightly in 2014 but other Executive changes.
we remained above average when compared with our peers.
We delivered improved service levels in British Gas which put us into the median net promoter score NPS performance zone.
NPS performance in Direct Energy remained in the high performance zone which is consistent with the prior two years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION SUMMARY FOR 2014 The information in this summary relates to each Executive Director employed during the year and eligible to receive an award under one of the Companys short-term or long-term incentive plans for the 2014 financial year.
Short-term and long-term incentive performance2014 The charts below set out the measures and their weighting inner circle and the performance achieved against the maximum outer circle for both the short-term Annual Incentive Scheme and long-term Long-Term Incentive Scheme and Deferred and Matching Share Scheme incentive arrangements operated during the year.
Sam Laidlaw Sam Laidlaw Mark Hanafin Mark Hanafin Short-term incentive targets Sam Laidlaw Sam Laidlaw Mark Hanafin Mark Hanafin 12.8% 12.8% For Group, adjusted operating profit of 2,031million was required for 50% 12.8% 12.8% achievement and 2,302million for 100%.
For Centrica Energy CE, adjusted operating 40% 40% 60% 60% profit of 733million was required for 50% 21% 21% 40% 40% 60% 60% achievement and 816million for 100%.
21% 21% Group operating profit Group operating profit Group operating profit Group operating profit Strategic objectives Centrica Energy operating profit Strategic objectives Centrica Energy operating profit Group operating profit Group operating profit Group operating profit Group operating profit Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Centrica Energy Centrica Energy operating profit operating profit Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Individual strategic objectives in 2014 for Individual strategic objectives in 2014 for Sam Laidlaw included maintaining a strong Mark Hanafin included maintaining a strong safety performance, the roll-out of new safety performance and sustaining safe and technology to customers, the delivery reliable operations, building capability and ofkeyinformation systems projects, effectiveness within CE, the development succession planning and building senior and retention of key high potential senior leadership and executive capability and employees, increasing returns through delivering business transformation efficiency and continued capital discipline, programmes across thebusiness.
implementing the LNG roadmap and delivering specific power and midstream projects as part of CEs operating plan.
Sam Laidlaw Mark Hanafin Long-term incentive targets Sam Laidlaw Mark Hanafin For Group economic profit EP, 3.4billion Sam Laidlaw Sam Laidlaw Mark Hanafin Mark Hanafin was required for 100% achievement.
For total shareholder return TSR, outperformance of the FTSE 100 Index Group EP Group EP Group EP Group EP by 7% per annum would result in a 1.5 EPS EPS EPS EPS multiplier and underperformance by 7% per Group EP Group EP Group EP Group EP annum would result in a 0.667 multiplier.
Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs EPS EPS EPS EPS Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs The results above have been reduced, where applicable, by a TSR multiplier of 0.667.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% % 6.4 30% 30% 40% 40% 30% 25% 25% 30% 40% 40% 30% 30% 25% 25% 15.8% 15.8% 30% 30% 15.8% 15.8% 7.3% 7.3% 7.9% 7.9% 7.3% 7.3% 7.9% 7.9% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Maximum total remuneration opportunity and total remuneration received in 2014 The chart below sets out the total remuneration received for the year for each Executive Director, prepared on the same basis as the single figure for total remuneration table set out on page 74.
In addition, for comparison purposes, the chart provides an indication of minimum, on-target and maximum total remuneration opportunity, prepared on the same basis and in accordance with the existing Remuneration Policy.
000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay Opportunity Sam Laidlaw 2014 Actual i ii iii 2013 Actual Minimum Opportunity On-target total pay Maximum total pay total pay Nick Luff 2014 Actual iv 2013 Actual iii Minimum Opportunity On-target total pay Maximum total pay total pay Mark Hanan 2014 Actual i 2013 Actual iii Minimum On-target total pay Maximum total pay Opportunity Fixed total pay remuneration Chris Weston 2014 Actual iv Short-term incentive 2013 Actual iii Long-term incentive i The 201214 long-term incentive plan achievement was 35% for Sam Laidlaw and 33.7% for Mark Hanan.
ii Sam Laidlaw elected to donate his entire 2013 bonus to charity.
iii The 201113 long-term incentive plan achievement was 0%.
iv Nick Luff and Chris Weston ceased employment on 31 August and 30 December respectively.
As a result their incentive awards were forfeit.
2014 Cash flow distribution to stakeholders The Committee monitors the relationship between the Directors total remuneration and cash outflows to other stakeholders.
As demonstrated by the chart below, the Directors aggregate total remuneration for the year equates to 0.1% 2013: 0.1% of the Groups operating cash flow.
2013 2014 A further c. 400million A further c. 600million of investment was of investment was 23% funded from borrowing funded from borrowing investing 24% 32% 30% to staff activities and other sources rather and other sources rather to staff investing than from operating cash than from operating activities 0.1% flows and 420million cash flows and to 19% to was returned to 28% to 500million was Directors shareholders 16% to government shareholders through the returned to shareholders 28% to 0.1% shareholders government to share repurchase through the share Directors programme.
In 2015 the Committee will continue to keep executive remuneration under review and we will take a keen interest in external views on remuneration matters.
We will maintain the engagement with our major shareholders and we thank them for their input over the last few months and their ongoing support.
At the Companys AGM on 27 April 2015, shareholders will be asked to approve two new discretionary share plans: the Centrica Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP which is described on page 68 of the Remuneration Policy and a share plan for employees but not Executive Directors, the Centrica On Track Incentive Plan, a summary of which is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
In addition shareholders will be asked to approve an updated sharesave scheme to apply to all Centrica employees in the UK, to replace the current scheme which was last approved in 2006.
Lesley Knox Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 February 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY The Policy in the following pages sets out the new Executive The KPIs, set out in detail on pages 18 and 19, influence the design incentive arrangements that we intend to apply, subject to and underpin the selection of performance criteria used within the shareholder approval, from 27 April 2015 onwards.
incentive arrangements as demonstrated in the table below.
If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, the award for any year may Executive Directors remuneration be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee Committee believes that the In addition, Executives are subject to a minimum shareholding remuneration arrangements are completely aligned with the guideline.
Under the LTIP there are mandatory holding periods Executives underlying commitment to act in the best interests of of three to five years from grant or award date, to provide further sustainable shareholder value creation, whilst ensuring behaviours alignment with the returns to our shareholders.
remain consistent with the governance and values of the business.
Remuneration principles Key objectives of reward framework the potential maximum remuneration that Executives could receive The Policy aims to deliver a remuneration package: is a key consideration when agreeing the level of base pay and to attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging and the performance related elements of the remuneration package: competitive business environment: the Committee takes account of, and is sensitive to, shareholder that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable views, market changes, skills availability, competitive pressure compensation for each Executive: and or the economic climate when considering Executive that places a strong emphasis on performance, both short term remuneration.
In so doing, the Committee follows similar and long term: principles that apply when remuneration is considered for all other employees within the Group: and strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives and the delivery of sustainable value to shareholders: and benchmarking against UK cross-industry comparator organisations of similar size and complexity is used to assist that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement the Committee in evaluating market movement and the relative of performance targets.
competitive position of Executive remuneration to ensure that Reward framework packages offered support the attraction and retention of high The core design of the total remuneration framework for Executives calibre individuals.
ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum opportunity is dependent upon performance as indicated below.
Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable performance related pay, which is further divided into short-term incentive with a one-year performance period and long-term incentive with a three-year performance period.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Fixed Short-term Long-term remuneration incentive incentive Cash Shares Short-term incentives relate to awards under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP which is described on page 67.
Long-term incentives relate to awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP which is described on page 68.
Key performance indicators KPIs have been selected that align with our vision: to be the leading integrated energy company with customers at our core and also support our strategic priorities.
In addition, our underlying principles of operating safely and with an engaged workforce are included.
KPI Incentive link Adjusted operating profit AIP primary financial measure, LTIP economic profit three-year measure Earnings per share EPS LTIP EPS growth measure Total shareholder return TSR AIP deferred share investment and minimum shareholding requirement Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Process safety LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Customer satisfaction LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Employee engagement LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Remuneration Policy table The table below sets out the new Remuneration Policy that the Committee intends to apply to Executive Directors Executives, subject to shareholder approval, from 27 April 2015, the date of the AGM.
Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link tostrategy measures Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking account of Ordinarily, base salary Not applicable.
Base pay salary performance, market conditions and pay in the Group as a increases in percentage terms Reflects the scope whole.
Changes are usually effective from 1 April each year.
will be in line with increases and responsibility of awarded to other employees the role and the skills This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
and experience of the individual.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of Salaries are set at a individual circumstances such level sufficient to allow as a change in responsibility, the Company to progression in the role or a compete for significant increase in the scale international talent or size of the role.
and to recruit, motivate and retain The base salary for an individuals of the Executive will not exceed correct calibre to 1million per annum.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
The Annual Incentive Plan AIP is a new plan and together Maximum of 200% of Up to 75% of base Short-term with the new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP replaces the base salary.
salary based on incentive plan previous Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, Deferred and individual strategic Half the maximum is payable Designed to reward the Matching Share Scheme DMSS and Long-Term Incentive objectives aligned for on-target performance.
delivery of key strategic Scheme LTIS.
to the Groups The minimum award is 0%.
strategic priorities, The AIP is designed to incentivise and reward the achievement The maximum was 180% These priorities position with the remainder of demanding financial and individual strategically aligned of base salary under the the Group for strong based on operating performance objectives.
short-term financial profit adjusted Following measurement of the performance outcome, half performance, in for movements The 20% of base salary of the AIP award is paid in cash.
The other half is required to service of longer-term in tax and capital increase in maximum be deferred into shares, two-thirds of which are released after strategic goals.
opportunity is offset by the three years and the remaining third after four years.
Dividends 80% of base salary reduction Assessed over one are payable on the shares during the restricted period.
in maximum long-term financial year.
If overall business performance is not deemed satisfactory, incentive opportunity and Up to 72% of base an individuals AIP payment for the year may be reduced or longer deferral periods.
salary was based on forfeited, at the discretion of the Committee.
individual strategic Malus and clawback apply to the cash and share awards objectives under the see policy table notes on page 70. previously approved policy.
AIP timeline 50% paid in cash Performance Period subject to clawback period 50% awarded in shares 2 3 of shares released 1 3 of shares released Performance Period subject to Period subject Period subject to malus period malus clawback to clawback Award date Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link tostrategy measures The new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP simplifies the Maximum of 300% of base One-third based Long-term previous long-term incentive arrangements which were salary plus dividend on EPS over incentive plan delivered under two separate schemes.
The minimum the three-year Assists with Executive vesting level is 0%.
LTIP awards are granted to Executives each year based on a retention and percentage of base salary at the point of award.
Shares vest at The maximum was 380% One-third based incentivises an the end of a three-year performance period, depending on the of base salary plus dividend on absolute appropriate balance achievement against the Company performance targets, but equivalents under the aggregate EP over between short-term are not released until the fifth anniversary of the award date.
the three-year performance and performance period.
long-term value creation LTIP awards are usually delivered as conditional shares which for shareholders.
vest at the end of the three-year performance period.
Awards One-third based may also be granted as nil-cost options with a seven-year on non-financial Encourages sustainable exercise period.
It is a requirement of the LTIP that the net KPI dashboard.
shares are held for a further two years following the vesting Where performance Provides a direct link date.
Malus applies to the shares during the three-year falls between stated between remuneration performance period and clawback applies to the shares points, vesting is and KPIs, reinforcing during the two-year retention period see policy table notes calculated on a the desire for on page 70. straight-line basis.
sustainable high Dividend equivalents are calculated at the end of the performance over The weighting to performance period on any conditional LTIP share awards or the long term.
Dividend equivalents are paid as additional has marginally shares or as cash.
increased from 30% If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, the award to 33.3% compared for any year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of with the long-term the Committee.
incentive arrangements in the previously approved policy.
This reflects the Committees view of the appropriate balance between financial and non-financial measures at two-thirds one-third respectively.
LTIP timeline Award granted Performance tested and award vests Shares released Period subject to malus Period subject to clawback Three-year performance period Two-year holding period Award date Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link tostrategy measures Incoming Executives are entitled to participate in a Company 30% salary supplement for Not applicable.
Pension money purchase pension arrangement or to take a fixed Chief Executive and 25% Positioned to provide salary supplement calculated as a percentage of base salary, salary supplement for all a competitive postwhich is excluded from any bonus calculation in lieu of other Executives.
in a way that manages This is consistent with the the overall cost to The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit previously approved policy.
arrangements to new employees at any level, unless this is specifically required by applicable legislation or an existing contractual agreement.
Executives employed prior to 2013 are entitled to participate 40% salary supplement for in a Centrica pension arrangement or to receive a fixed salary Executives employed prior supplement in lieu of pension entitlement in accordance with to 2013. the terms of their contracts.
This is consistent with the Mark Hanafin is entitled to receive a salary supplement equal previously approved policy.
to 40% of his base salary in lieu of pension or to participate in a Company money purchase pension arrangement.
We would continue to honour defined benefit pension arrangements in the event of an individual being promoted to the Board who retains a contractual entitlement to such a pension benefit.
The Group offers Executives a range of benefits including Cash allowance in lieu of Not applicable.
Benefits some or all of: company car 22,000 Positioned to ensure per annum.
competitiveness with a company-provided car and fuel, or a cash allowance market practice.
in lieu: The benefit in kind value of other benefits will not exceed life assurance and personal accident insurance: 5% of base salary.
health and medical insurance for the Executive and their This is consistent with the dependants: previously approved policy.
health screening: and a contribution towards financial planning advice.
Assistance may include but is not limited to removal and Maximum of 100% of Not applicable.
Relocation and other relocation costs, housing or temporary accommodation, base salary.
expatriate education, home leave, repatriation and tax equalisation.
This is consistent with the assistance This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
To enable the Group to recruit or promote the right individual into a role, to retain key skills and to provide career opportunities.
UK-based Executives are entitled to participate in the Maximum contribution limits Not applicable.
All-employee HMRC-approved Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan SIP are set by legislation.
Levels share plans on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
The of participation allowed by the Provide an Sharesave plan offers a three or five-year savings period, Board are within these limits opportunity for with up to a 20% discount to the market value of the shares and apply to all participants.
employees to at the point of grant.
The SIP currently awards one voluntarily invest free matching share for every The SIP currently offers partnership and matching shares.
two partnership shares Dividends paid on SIP shares may be reinvested in the plan.
purchased, up to a maximum of 22 matching shares per month, This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
although the plan allows for higher levels of matching award.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Policy table notes The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments Economic profit EP and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line EP is adjusted operating profit after share of joint venture interest less with the Remuneration Policy set out above, where the terms of the a tax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the different business payment were agreed before the policy came into effect, at a time when segments and after deduction of a capital charge.
The capital charge the relevant individual was not an Executive of the Company or, in the is calculated as capital employed multiplied by the Groups weighted opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the average cost of capital.
individual becoming an Executive of the Company.
For these purposes Where appropriate, expenditure on assets and related costs that are payments include the amounts paid in order to satisfy awards of variable not yet in use pre-productive capital is excluded from capital employed.
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Non-financial KPI dashboard The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained high The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above performance over the entire three-year performance period.
The equally for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to weighted measures are: take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
lost time injury frequency rate: significant process safety event: Pension arrangements applying to Executives British Gas net promoter score NPS : Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme CUPS All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines and Direct Energy NPS: and the Lifetime Allowance.
The CUPS defined contribution section provides benefits for individuals Employee engagement survey data is collected by an external provider not eligible to join the CUPS defined benefit section and for whom and compared against an independent benchmark database.
registered scheme benefits are expected to exceed the Lifetime Deloitte LLP review selected non-financial key performance indicators, Allowance.
The CUPS defined contribution section is offered as providing limited assurance using the International Standard on a direct alternative to a cash salary supplement.
The full assurance statement, The CUPS defined benefit section was closed to new members together with the Basis of Reporting, are available online.
For each measure, three performance zones have been established, CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge over certain represented by the following indicators: Centrica assets.
An appropriate provision in respect of the accrued value High performance zone of these benefits has been made in the Companys balance sheet.
Median performance zone Earnings per share EPS Low performance zone EPS is the Companys fully diluted earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Malus and clawback The Committee can apply malus i. e. reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award vests or delay the vesting of awards if it considers it appropriate where a participant has engaged in gross misconduct or displayed inappropriate management behaviour which fails to reflect the governance and values of the business or where the results for any period have been restated or appear inaccurate or misleading.
Where an award has vested, the resulting shares will generally be held for a period during which they may be subject to clawback in the event that the Committee determines that one or more of the circumstances above has occurred.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Total remuneration by performance scenario The charts below indicate the minimum, on-target and maximum remuneration that could be received by each Executive, excluding share price movement and dividends, under the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
Assumptions made for each scenario are: Iain Conn minimum fixed remuneration only base salary at current level, together with pension and benefits as set out in the Remuneration Policy table : Total Maximum 20% 29% 51% 6,312 on-target fixed remuneration plus target AIP as set out in the Remuneration Policy table and expected value under the LTIP on vesting Total of 50%: and On-target 34% 24% 42% 3,791 maximum fixed remuneration plus maximum AIP opportunity as set out in the Remuneration Policy table and maximum levels of Total Minimum 100% 1,271 vesting under the LTIP.
000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Iain Conn Mark Hanafin Total Total 21% 29% 50% Maximum Maximum 20% 29% 51% 4,231 6,312 Total Total 35% 24% 41% 34% On-target On-target 24% 42% 2,569 3,791 Total Total 100% Minimum Minimum 100% 907 1,271 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Mark Hanafin Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Total 21% 29% 50% Maximum 4,231 Total On-target 35% 24% 41% 2,569 Discretion and judgement Recruitment policy Total 100% Minimum It is important tha 9t 07 the Committee maintains the flexibility to apply The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the discretion and judgement to achieve fair outcomes as no policy period as that which applies to existing Executives when 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 remuneration policy and framework, however carefully designed and considering the recruitment of a new Executive in respect of all implemented, can pre-empt every possible scenario.
The Committee elements of remuneration as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
needs to be able to exercise appropriate discretion to determine Whilst the maximum level of remuneration which may be granted whether mechanistic or formulaic outcomes are fair, in context and would be within plan rules and ordinarily subject to the maximum can be applied in an upward or downward manner when required.
opportunity set out in the Remuneration Policy table, in certain Judgement is applied appropriately by the Committee, for example circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically when considering the political and social pressures on the business, to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual up to 25% above the impact of significant movements in external factors such as the maximum opportunity, albeit that any such arrangement would commodity prices, in setting and evaluating delivery against be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
individual performance targets to ensure they are considered The policy for the recruitment of Executives during the policy period sufficiently stretching and that the maximum and minimum levels includes the opportunity to provide a level of compensation for are appropriate and fair.
forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or unvested long-term incentive The Committee has absolute discretion to decide who receives awards from an existing employer, if any, and the additional provision awards, the level of the awards under the incentive plans and the of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, as may be timing, within the parameters set in the rules.
required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
In the case of a corporate action, the Committee can agree when a The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors corporate action applies to a share award, whether awards pay out Non-Executives during the policy period would be to apply the or are rolled over in this situation and how any special dividend might same remuneration elements as for the existing Non-Executives.
The Committee also maintains the discretion to adjust any It is not intended that variable pay, day rates or benefits in kind be awards in the event of a variation of capital, for example to maintain offered, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration the incentive value at the level originally intended.
may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee will include in future Remuneration Reports details The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, of the implementation of the policy as utilised during the policy regarding the operation and administration of the incentive plans period in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
including, but not limited to, the following: determination of the result of any disputes relating to the interpretation of the rules: alteration of the terms of the performance targets if it feels that they are no longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, as long as the new targets are not materially less challenging than the original ones: and determination that any award is forfeit in whole or in part.
The Committee also retains the discretion to forfeit or clawback deferred awards under the AIP if it determines that prior performance which resulted in the annual bonus being awarded was discovered to be a misrepresentation of results or inappropriate management behaviour which fails to reflect the governance or values of the business.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Termination policy Shareholding guidelines The Committee carefully considers compensation commitments Minimum shareholding guidelines are in place for Executive Directors in the event of an Executives termination.
The aim is to avoid to build and maintain a value of shares over a five-year period equal rewarding poor performance and to reduce compensation to to two times base salary.
reflect the departing Executives obligations and to mitigate losses.
External appointments of Executives Save for summary dismissal, the policy is to either continue to It is the Companys policy to allow each Executive to accept one provide base pay, pension and other benefits for any unworked non-executive directorship of another company, although the Board period of notice or, at the option of the Company, to make a retains the discretion to vary this policy.
payment in lieu of notice comprising base pay only.
Typically any Fees received in respect of external appointments are retained by payment in lieu of notice will be made in monthly instalments and the individual Executive and are set out in the Directors Annual reduce, or cease completely, in the event that remuneration from Remuneration Report each year.
An AIP award for the year in which the termination occurs may be made following the normal year Implementation in the next financial period end assessment process, subject to achievement of the agreed A Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS award will be made performance measures and time-apportioned for the period worked.
to Mark Hanafin, being the only eligible participant, following the full Any award would be payable at the normal time with a 50% deferral deferral of his 2014 Annual Incentive Scheme award.
The matching and no new long-term incentive plan awards would be made.
award will be made within the limits set out in the approved policy and will be subject to Economic Profit EP performance.
The Except in cases of death in service, the policy is not to vest any Committee will set the EP target in March 2015 immediately prior existing long-term incentive plan awards earlier than their normal to the award being made.
In all cases any vesting remains subject to satisfaction of the associated performance conditions and will be timeLTIP awards will be made to the Executives in line with the limits set apportioned for the period worked.
out in the proposed Remuneration Policy on page 68.
Performance measures will apply in accordance with the stated Remuneration Executives leaving following resignation will forfeit any potential Policy including the respective weighting thereof.
AIP award for the performance year in which the resignation occurs and all unvested LTIP awards.
In addition, Executives summarily For EPS, the Committee ordinarily expects growth in excess of dismissed will also forfeit any deferred shares.
Deferred awards 9% over the performance period to be required for any vesting can also be clawed back if it is subsequently discovered that the to occur and growth of at least 24% to be required for maximum results have been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect vesting.
However, for the first operation of the LTIP, given the the governance and values of the business or where the results significant movement in commodity pricing over the latter part of for any period appear inaccurate or misleading.
2014 and early part of 2015, the Committee feels that measuring growth from a base of 2014 actual EPS would not reflect the true On a change of control, existing LTIP awards will be exchanged on underlying performance of the business.
The Committee therefore similar terms or vest to the extent that the performance conditions proposes to measure EPS growth over the second and third year have been met at the vesting date and be time-apportioned to the of the performance period only using 2015 actual EPS as the base.
vesting date, subject to the overriding discretion of the Committee.
Accordingly, growth in excess of 6% over the performance period Pay and employment conditions across the Group will be required for any vesting to occur and growth of at least 16% The Group operates in a number of different environments and has will be required for maximum vesting.
Vesting between these points many employees who carry out a range of diverse roles across a will be on straight-line basis 6% growth 0% and 16% growth number of countries.
All employees, including Executives, are paid 100%.
The maximum award will be reduced from 300% to 267% by reference to the market rate and base pay is reviewed annually.
of base salary to reflect the shorter EPS performance period.
The ratio between fixed and variable pay for employees differs by For EP, absolute aggregate EP in excess of 1.5bn over the level, geographic location and business unit.
performance period will be required for any vesting to occur and A number of performance-related incentive schemes are operated absolute aggregate EP of 3.5bn will be required for maximum across the Group which differ in terms of structure and metrics from vesting.
Vesting between these points will be on a straight-line basis those applying to Executives.
The Group also offers a number of all-employee share schemes in For Non-financial KPIs, for each measure in each year within the the UK and North America and Executives participate on the same performance period, actual performance will be assessed providing basis as other eligible employees.
fifteen individual results five measures times three years.
Full vesting will occur if all individual results are assessed as being in the Performance measures applying to Executives are cascaded high performance zone.
For each median performance zone result down through the organisation and Group employment conditions a 5% reduction will apply and for each low performance zone result include high standards of health and safety and employee a 10% reduction will apply.
The maximum reduction will be 100%.
Executive Directors will also participate in the AIP in line with the No consultation in respect of Executive remuneration took place limits set out in the proposed Remuneration Policy on page 67. with employees during the year.
Operating profit targets adjusted for in year movements in capital employed and corporation tax, along with individual strategic objectives, are considered commercially sensitive until the year-end and will therefore be disclosed retrospectively in the Remuneration Report for the year in question.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Non-Executive Directors remuneration Remuneration policy Centricas policy on Non-Executive Directors Non-Executives fees takes into account the need to attract high quality individuals, their responsibilities, time commitment and market practice.
Terms of appointment Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts.
Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment and the Articles of Association.
Remuneration Policy table Purpose and link to Operation Maximum Performance strategy opportunity measures The fee levels for the Chairman are reviewed every two years The maximum level Not applicable.
Chairman and by the Remuneration Committee.
of fees payable to Non-Executive Non-Executives, in The fee levels of the Non-Executives are reviewed every two Director fees aggregate, is set years by the Executive Committee.
Current fees were originally Sufficient level to secure the out in the Articles set in 2010. services of individuals of Association.
possessing the skills, Non-Executives are paid a base fee for their services.
Where knowledge and experience individuals serve as Chairman of a Committee of the Board, to support and oversee the additional fees are payable.
The Senior Independent Director Executive Directors in their also receives an additional fee.
execution of the Boards The current base fee is 65,000 per annum.
approved strategies and The following additional fees currently apply: operational plans.
Chairman of Audit Committee 23,000 per annum: Chairman of Remuneration Committee 20,000 per annum: Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 per annum: and Senior Independent Director 20,000 per annum.
The Company reserves the right to pay a Committee membership fee in addition to the base fees.
Non-Executives are able to use 50% of their fees, after appropriate payroll withholdings, to purchase Centrica shares.
Dealing commission and stamp duty is paid by the Non-Executive.
The Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes.
Non-Executives will be reimbursed for business expenses relating to the performance of their duties including travel, accommodation and subsistance.
In certain circumstances these, or other incidental items, may be considered a benefit in kind and if so may be grossed up for any tax due.
Service contracts The Executive Directors service contracts expire on their 65th birthday.
Service contracts provide that either the Executive or the Company may terminate the employment by giving one years written notice and that the Company may pay base salary only in lieu of notice.
All Executive and Non-Executive Directors are required to be re-elected at each AGM.
The Committee retains a level of flexibility, as permitted by the Code, in order to attract and retain suitable candidates.
It reserves the right to offer contracts which contain an initial notice period in excess of one year, provided that at the end of the first such period the notice period reduces to one year.
Appointment dates for all Directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Directors remuneration in 2014 This report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
During the period between 31 July and 31 December 2013, he received basic salary and benefits.
The figures in this table include his emoluments for the period to 30 June 2013. ii Nick Luff resigned as an Executive Director on 31 August 2014. iii Chris Weston resigned as an Executive Director on 30 December 2014. iv Rick Haythornthwaite was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2013 and as Chairman on 1January2014.
v Sir Roger Carr resigned as Chairman on 31 December 2013. vi Mike Linn was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2013. vii Andrew Mackenzie resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 10 May 2013. viii Mark Hanafin deferred his full AIS award into the DMSS in accordance with the rules of the plan and as disclosed on page 72. ix B enefits for Executives include car and fuel, health and medical, financial planning advice, matching shares received under the Share Incentive Plan, the gain from any options exercised under the HMRC-approved Sharesave plan and long service awards.
Benefits for Chris Weston in 2013 include expenses and benefits paid under the terms of his international assignment agreement including for his relocation from the US to the UK.
x T he long-term incentives include the value of the LTIS and DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2015, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2014.
The share price used to calculate the value of the awards is the three-month average to 31 December 2014 which was 290.42p.
Dividend equivalent values are also included.
The performance outcome is set out on pages 75 and 76. xi T he value of the increase in defined benefit pension accrual for Phil Bentley and Chris Weston has been calculated in line with current reporting regulations at 20 times the increase in accrued pension for the year less an allowance for the contributions paid by the member and CPI inflation of 2.2% in 2013 and 2.7% in 2014.
Notional contributions of 40% of base salary to the CUPS DC Scheme for Sam Laidlaw, Mark Hanafin and Nick Luff have been included in this table as if CUPS DC were a cash balance scheme and therefore include notional investment returns.
xii Sam Laidlaw elected to donate his entire 2013 bonus to charity.
Base pay salary Base salaries were reviewed on 1 April 2014.
Sam Laidlaws base salary increased by 2.37% to 972,500.
Mark Hanafins base salary and Chris Westons base salary both increased by 2.52% to 610,000.
Nick Luff, having tendered his resignation, did not receive a base salary increase.
Base salaries will be reviewed during the course of 2015 as part of the normal annual cycle.
Bonus AIS The performance targets for the 2014 AIS are set out in the Committee Chairmans introduction.
The charts on page 64 under short-term incentive targets indicate the extent of achievement for each Executive receiving a payment relating to 2014, for each component of the AIS.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Pension Chris Weston participated in the Centrica Pension Plan CPP, a contributory final salary arrangement and in the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme CUPS defined benefit DB section.
Sam Laidlaw, Mark Hanafin and Nick Luff were entitled to receive a salary supplement of 40% of base pay or participate in the CUPS defined contribution DC section.
During the year, they all participated in the CUPS DC section and received an unfunded promise equal to 40% of base pay.
Notional contributions to the CUPS DC Scheme have been included in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 74 as if it was a cash balance scheme and therefore notional investment returns for the year have been included.
The notional pension fund balances are disclosed below.
Pension benefits earned by Directors in the CPP and CUPS audited i Accrued Accrued pension as at pension as at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Defined benefit section Chris Weston 151,100 137,600 Total notional Total notional pension fund pension fund as at as at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 ii Defined contribution section Sam Laidlaw 906,657 475,928 Mark Hanafin 562,121 289,041 iii Nick Luff 503,856 308,496 i T he accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 62 based on eligible service to, and pensionable earnings at, 30 December 2014 for Chris Weston.
The pension accrual rate for 2014 for Chris Weston was 2.22% of final pensionable earnings.
ii The retirement age for the CUPS DC section is 62. iii Nick Luff resigned from Centrica on 31 August 2014.
The 2014 number above includes his notional balance as at 31 December 2014, in respect of pension contributions up to 31 August 2014.
Long-term incentive plans vesting in 2015 Total shareholder return TSR LTIS performance conditions are explained in full on page 78.
The EPS, EP and Non-financial KPI portions of LTIS awards made in 2012 are subject to adjustment up or down with reference to relative Earnings per share EPS TSR performance prior to final vesting.
EPS growth during the three-year period ending with 2014 did not The TSR graph for the three-year performance of the LTIS awards exceed RPI growth by 9%.
Consequently, the EPS portion of the that were made in April 2012 is shown below.
Economic Profit EP TSR three-year comparator group Aggregate EP achieved during the three-year period ending with 2014 Centrica and FTSE 100 comparator companies was 2.621billion when compared to a threshold level of 2.6billion and a maximum level of 3.4billion.
Consequently, 51.3% of matching 160 150 shares will vest from the 2012 DMSS award and 26.9% of the EP 140 portion of the 2012 LTIS award will become eligible for vesting subject 130 to TSR performance.
120 110 100 90 80 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Centrica return index F FT TS SE 1 E 10 00 r 0 re et tu ur rn i n in nd fide ex x Source: Datastream As performance fell below the FTSE 100 return index the shares eligible for vesting were reduced by a factor of 0.667.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-term incentive plans vesting in 2015 continued LTIS non-financial KPI dashboard The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained high performance over the entire performance period, as indicated below.
For each measure three performance zones have been established, represented by the following indicators: High performance zone Median performance zone Low performance zone The non-financial KPI results in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are as follows: Performance period LTIS awards made in 2012 Performance period LTIS awards made in 2013 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Measure 2012 2013 2014 Measure 2013 2014 2015 Lost time injury Lost time injury frequency rate frequency rate Significant process Significant process safety event safety event British Gas net promoter British Gas net promoter score NPS score NPS Direct Energy NPS Direct Energy NPS Employee engagement Employee engagement Performance period LTIS awards made in 2014 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Measure 2014 2015 2016 Lost time injury frequency rate Significant process safety event British Gas net promoter score NPS Direct Energy NPS Employee engagement Throughout each three-year performance period, for each median performance zone outcome, 5% of the KPI shares will be forfeited and for each low performance zone outcome, 10% of the KPI shares will be forfeited.
Performance against the non-financial KPI dashboard for the three-year period ending with 2014 resulted in 70% of the KPI portion of the 2012 LTIS award becoming eligible for vesting.
As a result of the EPS, EP and non-financial KPI performance for the three-year period ending with 2014, adjusted by the TSR factor of 0.667, 20.3% of the LTIS awards originally granted in 2012 will vest and become exercisable.
The charts on page 64 under long-term incentive targets display the extent of achievement for each component of the long-term incentive plans.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Recruitment of Iain Conn Retirement arrangements for Sam Laidlaw In accordance with the Companys approved recruitment policy Sam Laidlaw retired from Centrica on 31 December 2014.
The terms and as previously announced, the Committee agreed to provide of his departure were announced in July 2014 and are included compensation to Iain Conn for the forfeiture of existing unvested here in line with the reporting regulations.
The Committee agreed long-term incentive awards in the form of conditional Centrica shares.
that Sam Laidlaw would be treated as a retiree under the terms of the Companys short and long-term incentive plans, subject Two awards of conditional shares will be granted to Iain Conn in to the requirement set out below for payments under the LTIS April 2015, the first with a face value equal to 925,000 vesting on and the DMSS.
the first anniversary of the award date and the second with a face value equal to 1,850,000 vesting on the second anniversary of the Sam Laidlaw received his normal salary and benefits until his leaving award date and released in April 2018. date.
No payment was made in lieu of notice.
His other remuneration arrangements followed the approved Remuneration Policy set out in On vesting, to the extent that the performance criteria have been the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
achieved, the shares comprising each award will be released immediately.
Any shares released following the sale of sufficient Accordingly, as he had worked for the entire 2014 bonus year, the shares to cover the income tax and National Insurance contributions Committee determined that Sam Laidlaw was entitled to receive a due on vesting will be held until his shareholding is above the payment under the AIS, to be paid at the same time and on the minimum guideline for Executives.
same basis as other Executives.
The achievement against the Group and individual performance measures for this payment is reported in The vesting of both awards will be subject to the achievement of the Chairmans summary on page 63 and the value of the payment is personal strategic objectives.
Three-quarters of each award will vest included in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 74. if the Committee is satisfied that Iain Conns performance, in relation to the objectives set, has at least matched the expectations of the In respect of Sam Laidlaws participation in the LTIS and the DMSS, Board.
Each award may vest in full if the Committee considers his the Committee agreed that he would be treated as retiring from performance to have significantly exceeded expectations.
This determination is entirely conditional on his Committee considers his performance to have been below agreement not to take up any executive role with a FTSE100 expectations, the shares will not vest and the award will be forfeit.
company until such time as all of his existing share awards under the LTIS and the DMSS have vested.
Awards were time-apportioned for In reviewing Iain Conns performance, the Committee will consider the period worked during the usual three-year performance period.
progress against the following objectives: Therefore, 40% of the awards granted in 2013 and 75% of the strategy: to establish a sustainable growth strategy for Centrica awards granted in 2014 lapsed on his leaving date.
The balance that is attractive to and earns the support of all key stakeholders of shares will remain subject to the normal performance conditions expected by end Q3 2015 : and any vesting will be determined at the end of each performance measurement period.
organisational structure: to consider organisational structure, processes, systems, culture and costs and effect any change Termination arrangements for Nick Luff and deemed appropriate expected by end Q4 2015 : Chris Weston capability: to ensure that all the capabilities crucial to the success Nick Luff resigned from Centrica on 31 August 2014 and of the growth strategy have robust development plans that can be Chris Weston resigned on 30 December 2014.
They received delivered at a pace commensurate with competitive demands their normal base salary and benefits until their leaving dates.
expected by end Q2 2016 : and No payments were made in lieu of notice.
reputation: to build relationships with society necessary to achieve In line with the approved Remuneration Policy set out in the a demonstrable improvement in the external belief in Centrica as 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, both Executives forfeited a consumer-centric company, UK national leader, influential in their AIS payments for the 2014 year and all unvested long-term Europe and North America and a responsible market participant incentive awards granted under the LTIS lapsed on each respective expected by end Q4 2016. leaving date.
These measures are in addition to but compliment the objectives set DMSS investment shares that had been purchased with voluntary in respect of the Annual Incentive Plan.
bonus deferral in 2012 and 2013, and in accordance with the rules The Committee will ensure that the implementation section of the of the plan were not subject to continued service, were released Companys remuneration report for each year of vesting will include to Nick Luff and Chris Weston shortly after leaving.
All unvested detailed disclosure describing the progress made by Iain Conn DMSS deferred and matching shares lapsed on each respective against the expectations of the Board and how the assessment leaving date.
of performance was used by the Committee to determine the level Payments for loss of office of vesting under each award.
During 2014, there were no payments made for loss of office.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIS awards audited Number of shares options Awarded during 2014 i in performance period i i ii iii Number Value Awarded Awarded of shares 000 during 2013 during 2012 Sam Laidlaw 593,313 1,945 510,012 598,312 Mark Hanafin 372,155 1,220 308,691 362,136 iv Chris Weston 372,155 1,220 273,796 321,199 Vesting release date April 2017 April 2016 April 2015 i LTIS awards for UK-based Executives are delivered as nil-cost options at the end of the performance period and the options remain exercisable for seven years.
ii Awards were made in 2014 to Executives based on a value of 200% of salary.
iii T he share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 327.82p, being the average closing share price over five business days immediately preceding the grant date of 1 April 2014.
The performance conditions relating to these awards are set out below.
6% of shares awarded will vest if minimum performance is achieved.
100% of shares awarded will vest if maximum performance is achieved.
iv All unvested LTIS awards held by Chris Weston lapsed on his resignation on 30 December 2014.
LTIS performance conditions The performance measures relating to LTIS awards granted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are set out below.
Vesting criteria Performance conditions over three-year period i 35% on EPS growth against RPIgrowth Full vesting for EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by30% Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed RPI growth by9% Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points 35% on absolute aggregate EP Full vesting for aggregate EP of 3.4billion Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below 2.6billion Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points 30% on non-financial KPI dashboard As disclosed on page 76 Positive negative multiplier on TSR performance 0.667 multiplier for Index -7% per annum and 1.5 multiplier for Index 7% per annum, subject to against the FTSE100 Index a cap at the face value of the award.
Where performance falls between stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis i EPS is the Groups diluted adjusted earnings per share.
LTIS timeline 2016 2018 2015 2017 2014 Vesting of shares based Award 2014 Three-year performance period Two-year holding period 2019 Release on performance DMSS matching awards audited Number of shares options Awarded during 2014 i in performance period i i ii iii Number Value Awarded during Awarded during of shares 000 2013 2012 iv Sam Laidlaw 0 0 463,060 548,114 Mark Hanafin 95,664 316 233,562 276,462 v Chris Weston 72,978 241 207,158 245,210 Vesting release date April 2017 April 2016 April 2015 i DMSS matching awards for UK-based Executives are delivered as nil-cost options at the end of the performance period and the options remain exercisable for seven years.
ii D MSS matching awards granted in 2014 vest subject to absolute EP over the three-year performance period: minimum 2.6billion and maximum 3.4billion provides one or two matching shares respectively.
Where performance falls between these points, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis.
iii T he share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 329.98p, being the share price at which the corresponding deferred shares were purchased in the open market on 1April2014.
iv A s Sam Laidlaw elected to donate his entire 2013 bonus to charity, there was no deferral into the DMSS in 2014 and hence he received no matching award.
v A ll unvested DMSS matching awards held by Chris Weston lapsed on his resignation on 30 December 2014.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information DMSS timeline 2013 2014 2016 Cash 2015 Performance Total AIS Voluntary deferral 2014 Mandatory deferral Converted to shares and Two-year Release Three-year deferral 2019 matched and deferred holding period Performance period The following table shows the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of the Directors who held office during the year together with the minimum shareholding guideline for the Executives and the achievement against the guideline.
Also included, but not included as part of the minimum shareholder guideline calculation, are details of shares owned by the Executives that are subject to continued service and fully vested share options that may be exercised at any time.
Directors interests in shares number of shares audited iii Shares i owned iv i Shares Achievement subject to Fully Shares owned ii as at continued vested owned outright as at Minimum 31 December service as at unexercised outright as at 31 December shareholding 2014 or at 31 December options as at 31 December 2014 or at guideline leaving date 2014 or at 31 December 2013 leaving date % of salary % of salary leaving date 2014 Executives Sam Laidlaw 1,897,757 1,994,039 200 572 221,981 343,444 v Mark Hanafin 189,923 244,578 125 112 142,267 vi Nick Luff 275,404 316,411 125 166 100,002 vii Chris Weston 477,920 416,548 125 190 135,249 Non-Executives Rick Haythornthwaite 12,500 32,500 Margherita Della Valle 7,232 14,944 Mary Francis 3,500 3,500 Lesley Knox 5,192 12,348 Mike Linn 42,575 42,575 Ian Meakins 6,276 11,724 Paul Rayner 56,875 56,875 i These shares are owned outright by the Director or a connected person and they are not subject to continued service or performance conditions.
ii Minimum shareholding guidelines during 2014 were 2 x base salary for the Chief Executive and 1.25 x base salary for other Executives.
In addition, for awards made after 1January2011, the guidelines provided that all transferred shares under the long-term incentive arrangements be retained for a minimum period of five years from the original award or grant date.
iii Shares and options that are subject to the achievement of long-term performance conditions are included in the LTIS awards table on page 78 and the DMSS matching awards table on page 78. iv These share options are fully vested and have achieved all required performance conditions.
They may be exercised at any time, subject to the Centrica Code for Dealing.
v DMSS deferred shares are due to be released from the plan in April 2015.
Following this release, Mark Hanafin will meet the required minimum shareholding.
vi In respect of Nick Luffs interest in shares, the information is as at his leaving date of 31 August 2014. vii In respect of Chris Westons interest in shares, the information is as at his leaving date of 30 December 2014.
Share options exercised in 2014 audited Number of Exercise price Year options share options per share p granted i exercised Exercise date Executives Sam Laidlaw 2010 300,000 15 05 2014 Mark Hanafin 2010 267,349 15 05 2014 Nick Luff 2010 436,313 15 05 2014 Chris Weston 203.55 2005 130,187 15 05 2014 Chris Weston 253.80 2006 267,920 15 05 2014 i T hese share options were all fully vested and had achieved all required performance conditions.
The value of the share options as at the vesting date has been included in the single figure for total remuneration table for the appropriate year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 | GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration External appointments of ExecutiveDirectors In 2014, Sam Laidlaw received 140,188 2013: 125,000 as a compared with other employees non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc and has waived his The table below shows the percentage change in base pay salary, right to receive a fee for his role as the lead non-executive director taxable benefits and bonus annual incentive payments between of the Department of Transport.
2013 and 2014 for Sam Laidlaw, compared with a comparator group of UK employees, over the same period of time.
In 2014, up until his resignation from Centrica on 31 August, Nick Luff received 90,000 2013: 107,539 in fees as a Chief Executive Employees non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
% change % change Salary and fees 1.8 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay Taxable benefits 10.9 0 The following table sets out the amounts paid under the share Annual incentive 30.4 5.0 repurchase programme, in dividends and staff and employee costs for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014.
The comparator group includes management and technical or 2014 2013 % specialist employees based in the UK in Level 2 to Level 5 where m m Change Level 1 is the Chief Executive.
The employees selected have been i Share repurchase 420 500 -16 employed in their role throughout 2013 and 2014 to give a meaningful comparison.
The group has been chosen as the employees have a Dividends 864 862 0 ii remuneration package with a similar structure to the Chief Executive, Staff and employee costs 1,927 1,894 2 including base salary, benefits and annual bonus.
i 1 32.1million shares were purchased during 2014. ii T he employee remuneration disclosure in 2013 has been replaced for 2013 and 2014 with Pay for performance the total employee costs as per note 5 of the Income Statement.
The table below shows Sam Laidlaws total remuneration over Funding of share schemes in 2014 the last six years and his achieved annual variable and long-term During 2014, treasury shares were used to satisfy the release of incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maximum.
shares or exercise of options under DMSS, LTIS, Executive Share Chief Executive Long-term Option Scheme ESOS, under which the last options were granted single AIS payout incentive in 2006, Sharesave and SIP.
Market purchased shares, held in trust, figure of total against vesting against were used to satisfy outstanding allocations under DMSS deferred remuneration max opportunity max opportunity and investment shares, the Restricted Share Scheme a conditional Year 000 % % share plan for Centrica employees below the executive level and the 2014 3,407 34 35 Deferred Bonus Plan a plan for International Upstream employees 2013 2,235 50 below the executive level.
2010 5,322 91 62 2009 4,627 92 73 The performance graph below shows Centricas TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the six-year period to 31 December 2014.
The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as it is an index of similar sized companies and Centrica has been a constituent member throughout the period.
Total return indices Centrica and FTSE 100 200 180 160 140 120 100 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Centrica return index F FT TS SE 1 E 10 00 r 0 re et tu ur rn i n in nd fide ex x Source: Datastream, 31 December 2008 100 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Advice to the Remuneration Committee 2014 voting The membership of the Remuneration Committee during 2014 At the AGM held on 12May2014, shareholders approved the is set out in the Governance Report on page 61. remuneration policy and the Directors Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Below are the results Sam Laidlaw, Grant Dawson General Counsel & Company in respect of the resolutions, which required a simple majority Secretary, Jill Shedden Group Director, Human Resources and of 50% of the votes cast to be in favour in order for the resolutions David House Group Reward and HR Operations Director are to be passed: normally invited to attend each Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the Committee, other than in respect of Directors Remuneration Policy their own remuneration.
Votes for % Votes against % The Committee also has access to detailed external information and 3,046,094,488 96.05 125,270,535 3.95 research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed by the Committee in 2011 25,291,067 votes were withheld.
as independent external adviser and provided support to the Directors Annual Remuneration Report Committee on executive remuneration design, benchmarking, the provision of market data and advice on the recruitment of an Votes for % Votes against % Executive Director during 2014.
3,081,412,858 98.29 53,761,913 1.71 Deloitte has also provided advice to Centrica globally during 2014 61,473,818 votes were withheld.
in the areas of employment taxes, share schemes, pensions, corporate finance, management consulting and internal audit.
A full schedule in respect of shareholder voting on the above and all resolutions at the 2014 AGM is available at centrica.
Deloitte was also appointed by the Company in 2014 to provide a TSR monitoring and reporting service.
The fees for TSR reports Changes since 1January2015 provided to the Committee on completion of the LTIS performance Share Incentive Plan SIP cycles during 2014 amounted to 2,400.
Deloitte also provided During the period from 1January2015 to 19 February 2015, monthly TSR reports and updates to the Company which were Mark Hanafin acquired 130 shares through the SIP.
used to keep the general LTIS population regularly updated with The Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board TSR performance.
of Directors and signed on its behalf.
The Committee is satisfied with the performance of Deloitte and Grant Dawson has determined that it is not necessary to seek a tender for the services currently provided.
General Counsel & Company Secretary 19 February 2015 The Committee takes into account the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct when dealing with its advisers.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent and that the provision of those other services by Deloitte in no way compromises their independence.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
