Report of the Nominations Committee Introduction The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Composition of the Board.
It also makes recommendations for membership of the Board and considering succession planning for Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for evaluating Board and Committee performance.
Committee members and attendance Member Position Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Chairman and Senior Independent Director Richard Cotton Member Georgina Harvey Member from 1 July 2013 Steve Johnson Member Mark Richardson Member attended absent The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and giving consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior Executives.
Where changes are required, it is also responsible for the identification, selection and proposal to the Board for approval of persons suitable for appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether as Executive or Non-Executive Directors and to seek approval from the Remuneration Committee to the remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any proposed Executive Director appointment.
The Chairman of the Committee presents reports to the Board as appropriate to enable the Board as a whole to agree the appointments of new Directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as required and as determined by its members.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors is available for inspection at the Companys Head Office during normal working hours.
They are also available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Georgina Harveys appointment to the Board was approved by the Nominations Committee in the prior year, albeit her appointment commenced in July 2013.
Board performance evaluation The Board engaged Lomond Consulting to undertake an evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The aim was to seek to identify areas where the performance and the procedures of the Board may be improved.
The scope of the review was agreed between the Chairman of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
Each Director completed a questionnaire on the performance of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman.
The responses were anonymous to enable an open and honest sharing of views.
Lomond Consulting then produced a reporting showing the results of the review.
The key topic discussed as part of the review was succession planning, which is further discussed in the section below, albeit the Committee considered no further action was necessary.
Succession planning The Board comprises a team of four Executive Directors, two of whom were co-founders of the Company, complemented by Non-Executive Directors who have wide business experience and skills as well as a detailed understanding of the Groups philosophy and strategy.
Continuity of experience and knowledge, particularly of self storage, within the executive team is particularly important in a focused long term business such as Big Yellow.
It is a key responsibility of the Committee to advise the Board on succession planning.
The Committee ensures that any future changes in the Boards composition are foreseen and effectively managed.
In the event of unforeseen changes, the Committee ensures that management and oversight of the Groups business and long term strategy will not be affected.
The Committee also addresses the development and continuity of the Senior Management team below Board level.
54 Report of the Nominations Committee continued Policy on diversity All aspects of diversity, including gender are considered at every level of recruitment.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit.
The Boards policy states that the Board seeks a composition with the right balance of skills and diversity to meet the demands of the business.
The Board does not consider that quotas are appropriate for its representation and has therefore chosen not to set targets.
Gender diversity of the Board and Company is set out below: 100% 11% 90% 80% 45% 45% 70% Female 60% 50% 89% Male 40% 55% 55% 30% 20% 10% 0% Board Senior All Management employees Directors standing for re-election All of the Directors will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following a performance appraisal process, the Board has concluded that the Directors retiring by rotation are effective, committed to their roles and operate as effective members of the Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Committee, therefore recommends the re-election of each Director standing for re-election.
Full biographical details of each Director are available on page 46.
Tim Clark Nominations Committee Chairman 55 Remuneration Report For the year ended 31 March 2014 INTRODUCTION This report is on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
It sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-size Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2008 the Regulations as amended in August 2013.
This is the first time the Group has prepared the report in accordance with the amended Regulations.
The report is split into three main areas: the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the report on Directors remuneration policy: and the annual report on Directors remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on Directors remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Directors remuneration policy report are not subject to audit.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, I am very pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
This report the first one in the form required by the remuneration reporting regulations introduced last year has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Structure of the report In accordance with these regulations, the report is divided into three sections: this letter: the Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Committees policy and framework for the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
This section will be proposed for approval by a binding vote of shareholders at the AGM in July 2014: and the Annual Remuneration Report which sets out how the Group has remunerated the Directors during the year.
This section will be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Business conditions and Group performance in the year ended 31 March 2014 The business conditions and performance of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2014 are described more fully in the Chairman's Statement on page 12 of this Annual Report.
In summary: the business of the Group performed strongly: in an improving economic environment, Big Yellow remained the clear UK brand leader in self storage and delivered occupancy, cash flow and earnings growth for the fifth year in a row: revenue, cash flow and adjusted profit before tax increased by 4%, 9% and 15% respectively: net rent per sq ft increased by 6%: gearing was reduced to 36% of adjusted net assets: and dividends are being increased by 49%.
Policy on executive remuneration As in the previous financial year, the policy of the Company is to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of high calibre and reward the Executive Directors for protecting and enhancing value for shareholders.
As a result, a substantial element of the remuneration of the Executive Directors up to 80% of their potential total remuneration for the next financial year is structured to be dependent on the performance of the Company.
The Company aims to provide remuneration to the Directors which is fair to the Directors both generally and in the context of the remuneration of other staff of the Company and the returns to shareholders.
Remuneration consists of a balance of short and long term incentives which provide a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance to align the interests of the Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is also concerned to ensure that the Executive Directors have significant interests in the shares of the Company.
Each Executive Director has an interest in shares with a value in excess of his base salary and, together, and including share incentives, the Executive Directors are interested in shares comprising approximately 10.5% of the share capital of the Company.
56 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN continued In the view of the Remuneration Committee, the success of the remuneration policy has been reflected in the length of service and stability of the Executive Director team and the progress of the Company over a number of years, including the recent years of significant economic slowdown.
Two of the Executive Directors were founders of the Company while the other two have been Executive Directors for 15 years and seven years respectively.
Looking ahead, the Remuneration Committee is concerned that the total remuneration of the Executive Directors remains within range of, but slightly below the median for comparable companies and FTSE 250 companies.
In the light of this, and the expiry of the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan in 2015, the Remuneration Committee plans to review executive remuneration during the year ending 31 March 2015.
While this may lead to changes in the component elements of executive remuneration, it is unlikely to result in any significant changes in policy.
Having said that, any changes in policy which are proposed, will only take effect if they are approved by shareholders at the AGM in July 2015.
Finally, we will seek approval from our shareholders at the 2014 AGM approval for the renewal of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Sharesave Scheme which both expire in 2014.
The LTIP and the Sharesave Scheme have been operated by the Company since they were approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
The Sharesave Scheme is an all-employee share plan under HMRC provisions, the terms of the 2014 Sharesave Scheme are unchanged from the 2004 Plan other than minor drafting updates, and shareholders are being asked to approve a further ten year period for the operation of the Sharesave Scheme.
The LTIP is used to make awards to senior management.
The full terms of the proposed 2014 LTIP are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Although the main terms are unchanged other than drafting updates, we have taken the opportunity to bring some features more in line with current best practice.
In particular, the 2014 LTIP includes clawback provisions which may require award holders to forfeit unvested options if it should transpire that, for example, the Companys results had been misstated for earlier years.
It is also proposed that the individual limit within the 2014 LTIP rules with respect to the maximum value of shares over which awards may be made in any financial year will be amended to 200% of the individuals base salary the previous limit was 100% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances to increase the Companys flexibility to incentivise senior management.
This change to the individual limit under the plan also provides the Committee with a framework to facilitate any changes to the executive remuneration policy post the review of executive remuneration arrangements during the year ending 31 March 2015, as the current 100% limit is now falling below common practice in listed companies.
However, the Committee wishes to stress that any changes in Executive Directors remuneration policy, such as increasing the individuals award limit under LTIP, will only take effect if they are approved by shareholders following the proposed remuneration review.
The views of the Companys shareholders are very important to the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
The Committee is happy to receive constructive feedback on the remuneration policy or structure of the Company and takes this feedback into account in considering the remuneration arrangements of the Company.
Full details of the remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration changes during the year During the year ended 31 March 2014, the aggregate remuneration of the Executive Directors calculated on the basis of the remuneration regulations introduced in 2013 increased from 1,091,000 to 1,751,000 an increase of 60%.
The increase is due to the partial vesting of the 2010 LTIP during the year which produced a gain to the Executive Directors of 623,000.
The 2009 LTIP, tested in the prior year, lapsed.
This increase compares with significant increases in the year in adjusted profit before tax 15%, EPS 6% and declared dividends 49%.
In the same period, the aggregate remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors increased from 182,000 to 190,000 an increase of 4%.
The increase resulted from a review by the Board during the year which concluded that the previous fee structure required revision.
The new structure provides for a base fee of 36,000 for each non-Executive Director with an additional 2,500 for a Committee Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and a Non-Executive Director who provides significant specialist advice.
57 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN continued Within the overall figure for Executive Director remuneration, the detailed changes were: Base salary: increased by 30,000 3.3% of which the main change was an increase to the salary of one Director to reflect his progress in the role Taxable benefits: reduced by 9,000 37% the prior year figure included benefit-in-kind interest from the previous LTBP scheme.
Annual bonus: remained at 10% of base salary the average for all staff of the Company and increased, as a result of the increase in base salaries, by 3,000 3.3%.
Pension contributions: remained at 10% of base salary and increased, as a result of the increase in base salaries, by 3,000 3.3%.
Sharesave Scheme: one Directors Sharesave scheme vested in the year, producing a gain of 10,000 2013: nil Long term incentives: following the application of the performance conditions EPS growth compared to RPI and relative TSR, the 2010 award of shares granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan vested as to 53% representing a total gain of 623,000.
As in the previous year, each of the Executive Directors was granted an award equal to 100% of his base salary or average salary subject to performance conditions.
The value of these awards was 919,400 an increase of 29,600 3.3% No awards under the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan were made in the year 2013: 3,000,000.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance targets for the year and concluded that the awards under the Plan granted in 2012 have provisionally vested as to 100% in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014.
The final determination of the vesting for the whole three year period of the 2012 13 awards will be determined against performance conditions in the period 2012 to 2015.
In considering the relative importance of the spend on pay see page 73 : Total employee pay: increased by 1% and amounted to 11.1 million Profit distributed by way of dividend: increased by 45% and amounted to 19.6 million Retained profit for the year: increased by 118% and amounted to 40.0 million More details of the changes in the remuneration of the Directors in the year ended 31 March 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Remuneration Report.
Recommendation The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the policy on executive remuneration and the implementation of the approach underlying that policy during the year ended 31 March 2014 and recommends this Remuneration Report to you.
I hope that, at the Annual General meeting in July, you will support both: the binding resolution on the remuneration policy set out in the Remuneration Policy Report section of this Remuneration Report: and the advisory resolution on the remuneration paid to the Directors in the last financial year set out in the Annual Remuneration Report section of this Remuneration Report.
Tim Clark Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 58 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy which will govern the Companys approach to remuneration.
The policy described is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 16 July 2014, and if approved, will be applicable from that date for a period of three years, unless shareholder approval is sought within that period to amend the policy.
It is the policy of the Company to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of a high calibre and reward the executives for enhancing value to shareholders.
As a result, a substantial element of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is structured to be dependent on the performance of the Company.
The policy aims to support a performance culture where there is appropriate reward for the achievement of strong Company performance without creating incentives which will encourage excessive risk-taking or unsustainable Company performance.
The Committees aim is to design a total package that rewards the Executive Directors to a median level that is appropriate for the size and nature of the business, and its business strategy.
Policy table The main components of the Directors Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are summarised below: Executive Directors Performance conditions Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Base salary To provide competitive Base salary is normally set annually on Salaries are typically set after None fixed remuneration that 1 April.
considering the salary levels in will attract and retain companies of a similar size and When considering any increases to base key employees and complexity in the FTSE 250. salaries in the normal course as reflect their experience opposed to a change in role or Our overall policy is normally to target and position in the responsibility, the Committee will take salaries at close to but generally just Company.
into consideration: below median levels.
level of skill, experience, scope of Base salaries are intended to increase in responsibilities of individual and line with inflation and general employee individual performance: increases in salary.
business performance, economic Higher increases may apply if there is a climate and market conditions: change in role, level of responsibility or reference to the increases provided experience or if the individual is new to to Executive Directors in the role.
comparable companies: and There is no maximum salary cap in place.
Pay and employment conditions of employees throughout the Group, including increases provided to staff: and inflation.
Salaries for the Executive Directors for the year ending 31 March 2015 are as follows: Nicholas Vetch 259,300 James Gibson 284,400 Adrian Lee 210,600 John Trotman 200,000 The salaries for Nicholas Vetch, James Gibson and Adrian Lee have been increased by 2% from the prior year.
John Trotmans salary has been increased by 11% from the prior year.
The Committees policy for John Trotman is to bring his salary in line with that of Adrian Lee over the short to medium term.
59 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Executive Directors continued Performance conditions Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Annual bonus The annual bonus Cash payments.
Bonus potential: Assessed annually aligns reward to key and determined by Executive Directors participate in an Maximum: 25% of base salary.
Group strategic the Committee based annual performance-related bonus Target: 10% of base salary objectives and drives on corporate scheme.
short term performance against Threshold performance: 0% of base performance.
plan for each financial year.
The bonuses are directly linked to the Groups profit and operating cash flow performance in the stores see note 1.
Long Term The Long Term Incentive Awards are made annually to the Maximum annual grant is 100% of base Vesting under the Incentive Plan Plan aligns Executive Executive Directors and certain senior salary.
LTIP is based on Director interests with managers who are in a position to earnings per share Minimum vesting is 25% of salary those of shareholders influence significantly the performance EPS growth assuming achievement of threshold TSR and rewards value of the Group in the form of nil-paid compared to inflation performance, and the maximum vesting creation.
and Relative Total is 100% of salary.
Shareholder Return The awards granted under the Long Term TSR against the Incentive Plan are subject to FTSE Real Estate performance conditions to be met over a Index.
performance period of three years.
The EPS hurdle The performance conditions have been growth must be chosen to align the LTIP with the satisfied before any performance of the business.
part of the LTIP award Awards granted prior to the 2014 AGM can vest.
will vest in accordance with the Vesting will be as provisions of the LTIP rules, as approved follows if the EPS by shareholders.
hurdle is met: Awards made under the 2014 LTIP 25% vesting for subject to its approval by shareholders median TSR at the 2014 AGM, will be subject to performance and clawback provisions as set out in the 100% vesting for Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Straight-line vesting between these points.
Note 2 60 Executive Directors continued Performance conditions Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Long Term To ensure that the total Participants are awarded a restricted The maximum payment in shares and Please see page 74 Bonus remuneration package interest in ordinary shares.
They are cash to Executive Directors at the end of for the review of the Performance is more competitive and entitled to benefit from the growth in the current three year period is 330% of performance Plan supports the value of these shares, subject to a cap salary 110% of base salary for each conditions in the Companys strategy of 2 per share.
and its ability to react to Note 3 The awards to the Executive Directors changing economic and under the plan are made every three business years, although the Committee has circumstances.
discretion to make awards to new To retain key individuals Directors outside of this period.
in the medium term and Vesting depends on an annual align rewards with assessment of performance over three shareholder returns.
years but reviewed annually against a series of financial and non-financial targets aligned with the annual business plan.
The value accrued to participants may be subject to clawback if subsequent performance reflects adversely on achievement of the targets.
50% of the payout will be released at the end of the three year performance period, a further 25% will be released one year after the end of the performance period, and the remaining 25% will be released two years after the end of the performance period.
Pension To provide competitive Contribution of 10% of salary made into 10% of salary None levels of retirement Executive Directors personal pension benefit.
plan, or a cash supplement of equivalent value paid in lieu of pension contribution.
Other To provide competitive Benefits include: Maximum opportunity is the total cost of None benefits levels of employment providing the benefits.
There is no Private fuel benefits.
Private medical insurance Permanent health insurance Life assurance of four times base salary Relocation allowances The level of benefits provided is reviewed annually to ensure they remain market competitive.
Shareholding To ensure that Vested shares cannot be sold until the Requirement to build and maintain a N A policy Executive Directors shareholding requirement has been met.
holding of at least 100% of salary in interests are aligned shares of the Company, through There is no time requirement in relation with those of retaining at least 50% of shares vesting to this policy.
shareholders over a in Executive incentive plans if this longer time horizon.
guideline has not been met.
61 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Executive Directors continued Performance conditions Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Sharesave To encourage share Executive Directors may participate in Executive Directors are able to None Scheme ownership by all the Big Yellow Group Sharesave Scheme, participate in an all-employee share employees.
This allows which is an all-employee HMRC plan on the same terms as other them to align their approved share plan open to employees employees in line with the HMRC interests with those of based in the UK.
Sharesave Scheme approved monthly contribution limits.
investors and also to saving periods are in line with HMRC The figures shown in the remuneration share in the long term guidance as three year contracts.
table relate to the gains on exercise of success of the the SAYE options against the option price.
Notes to the policy table 1.
Annual bonus performance measures and targets Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors are based on the average of the store performances against their quarterly targets providing direct alignment of the Directors bonuses to performance and the bonus levels of the staff.
The four Key Performance Indicators used to assess store performance are occupancy growth, net contribution, customer satisfaction and store standards.
Store targets are set every quarter and an average of the four quarters is taken.
Long Term Incentive Plan performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance conditions on the LTIP as they provide a direct link between the incentive for the Executive Directors and the value created for shareholders.
Relative TSR against the FTSE Real Estate Index has been chosen, as Big Yellow Groups historic performance has been closely aligned to the performance of this Index.
The adjusted EPS figure is as reported in the audited results of the Group for the last complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period.
Long Term Bonus Performance Plan performance measures and targets The Long Term Bonus Performance Plan was first introduced in 2009 to bring overall levels of remuneration towards mid-market levels but maintaining the desire to ensure there was a strong performance based culture within the organisation.
Since the inception of the plan, the scheme has helped to align the Executive Directors to the performance of the stores and value created to shareholders as participants are entitled to the benefit from any growth in the value of the shares from the date of award to vesting capped at 2 per share.
Assuming performance conditions are met, shares are transferred to the Executive Director equal to the growth in value of the shares under award, subject to the 2 cap.
If there is insufficient value in these share interests to deliver the required payout, the Director will be entitled to exercise an option to acquire further shares to make up the shortfall, and if this is still insufficient to deliver the required payout, a top-up cash payment will be made.
Any cash payment cannot exceed 50% of the overall payment due.
The plan was re-adopted by shareholders in 2012 and the Committee believes that the plan remains effective in aligning the Executive Directors to the long term performance of the business.
In the year ended 31 March 2012, the Committee received external benchmarking advice from , which indicated total Executive Directors remuneration was still significantly below market levels.
The Committee gave careful consideration to the operation of the LTBPP and its support for the Companys strategy through its focus on achieving a range of KPIs.
The Committee remained of the view that the most appropriate way to ensure that Executive Directors remuneration remained competitive, provided incentive and lock-in and minimised cost to the Company was to make a further round of awards under the LTBPP.
The Committee therefore proposed that new awards covering the three year period to 2015 were made to the Executive Directors in 2012.
Unlike for the 2009 awards, no loans were made to the Executive Directors for the new awards: the option value was paid in full up front by each Executive Director.
The new awards were approved at the Companys AGM held in July 2012.
The Committee sets the performance targets annually, on the basis of business objectives and priorities which it has identified.
The performance conditions are not disclosed for the year ahead, given the commercially sensitive nature of a number of the targets.
A report on performance targets for the year under review other than those which remain commercially sensitive is provided in the Annual Report relating to that year.
Adoption of the 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan We will seek approval from our shareholders at the 2014 AGM approval for the adoption of the 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 LTIP to replace the existing LTIP which expires on 24 June 2014, on broadly similar terms.
The main changes relevant to Executive Directors are the inclusion of clawback provisions in respect of unvested awards, in line with emerging best practice.
Shareholders will note that the proposed individual limit under the plan will increase from 100% to 200% of base salary.
The Committee has determined that this increased limit will not form part of the Directors remuneration policy to be adopted at the 2014 AGM.
For further details and the main provisions of the 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan, please see the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Renewal of the Sharesave Scheme The Committee will seek approval from our shareholders at the 2014 AGM approval for the renewal of Sharesave Scheme which expires on 24 June 2014.
The Sharesave Scheme is substantially similar to the existing Sharesave Scheme.
For further details and the main provisions of the Sharesave Scheme, please see the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees are entitled to base salary, benefits, pensions and the Sharesave Scheme.
Additionally, all employees are eligible for annual bonuses with the maximum opportunity available based on the seniority and responsibility of the role held.
Changes made to the remuneration policy from previous policy Other than the addition of clawback provisions in respect of awards under the proposed 2014 LTIP, there have been no substantive changes to the operation, maximum or performance measures in relation to the salary, annual bonus, Long Term Incentive Plan, Long Term Bonus Performance Plan, pension or other benefits.
Increases in salary levels of Executive Directors are provided on page 59.
Non-Executive Directors Objective and link Performance conditions to the strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Fees To attract NonFee levels are normally reviewed Fee levels are set at broadly median N A Executive Directors annually in March.
levels for comparable roles at with the requisite skills companies of a similar size and The Non-Executive Director fee structure and experience complexity within the FTSE 250. is a matter for the full Board.
Fees are intended to increase in line The fees may be paid in the form of with inflation.
The fees have been increased by 2% from the prior year and for the year ending 31 March 2015 are as follows: Richard Cotton 39,300 Tim Clark 41,900 Georgina Harvey 36,800 Mark Richardson 39,300 Steve Johnson 36,800 For year ending 31 March 2015, fees include an additional 2,500 for a Committee Chairman, and an additional 2,500 for the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
Where a Non-Executive Director provides significant specialist advice to the Group, an additional fee of 2,500 is paid.
63 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Approach to recruitment remuneration Our principle is to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors of the high calibre required and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Salary and Set by reference to market and taking into account individual experience and expertise in the context of the role.
benefits Salary would also be set with reference to the salary of the departing Executive Director and the remaining Executive Directors.
The Executive Director would be eligible to receive benefits in line with Big Yellow Groups benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table this includes either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with the policies set out in the policy table.
Maximum Annual bonus of up to 25% of base salary in line with our current policy for Executive Directors.
variable Long term incentive plan award of equivalent to 100% of base salary in line with our current policy for Executive Directors.
incentive An award under the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan which equates to an annual maximum opportunity of 110% of salary over the life of the plan may also be made on appointment, recognising that the Companys basic remuneration is below median.
Sign-on The Company does not provide sign-on payments to Executive Directors.
payments Share buy-outs Any previous outstanding share awards which the Executive Director holds which would be forfeited on cessation of his or her previous employment may be compensated.
Where this is the case, the general principle is that the outstanding award will be valued based on the consideration of the following factors: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: The performance conditions attached to the vesting of the incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and Any other terms and conditions having a material impact on their value.
The valuation will be conducted using a recognised valuation methodology by an independent party and the equivalent fair value may be awarded as a one-off LTIP on date of joining under the Companys existing long term incentive plan.
To the extent that this is not possible, a bespoke arrangement will be used.
To ensure effective retention of the Executive Director upon recruitment, any new award will be granted subject to performance conditions and vesting may be over the same period as those forfeited from the previous employer or a new three year period.
The exact terms will be determined by the Remuneration Committee on a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant factors.
Relocation In instances where the new Executive Director is relocating from one work location to another, the Company may provide, as a policies one-off or otherwise, a relocation allowance as part of the Directors relocation benefits.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and schooling.
64 Service contracts The Companys policy on Directors service contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end date providing for one years notice.
All Executive Directors have contracts which reflect this policy.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and which will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Each appointment is for a period of up to three years, although the continued appointment of all Directors is put to shareholders at the AGM on an annual basis.
In addition, the appointment is terminable by either party giving notice of three months.
Payments for loss of office Element Approach Salary and Salary and benefits may be paid in lieu of notice.
In cases where a contract is terminated other than on the terms of the service benefits contract, the Company will seek to mitigate any damages payable.
There will be no compensation for normal resignation or in the event of termination by the Company due to misconduct.
Annual bonus If the individual is a good leaver, bonus will be paid on a pro-rata basis in respect of the period from the start of the financial year.
Good leaver is defined as an individual ceasing employment as a result of ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement or in any other circumstances which the Committee permits.
A bad leaver is an Executive Director who does not fall within the category of good leaver and bad leavers will forfeit any entitlement to a bonus payment in respect of the current financial year or any completed financial year in respect of which the bonus has not been paid at the cessation date.
Long term A proportion of the LTIP or LTBPP awards held by good leavers shall vest at the Committees discretion determined by taking into incentives account whether and to what extent any performance conditions have been satisfied and the length of time the LTIP or the LTBPP LTIP and Award has been held at the date of cessation of employment.
LTBPP The 2014 LTIP awards will not normally vest until the end of the performance period with performance tested at that time, although exceptionally such awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, vest at cessation of employment.
Under the 2004 LTIP and LTBPP, awards vest at cessation of employment.
Good leaver is defined as an individual ceasing employment as a result of ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the sale out of the Group of his employing business for any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
A bad leaver is an Executive Director who does not fall within the category of good leaver and bad leavers will forfeit any unvested awards.
contractual obligations Payments for Change of Control Element Approach Annual On a change of control, the Executive Director may receive a bonus payment based on performance level achieved during the bonus performance period and up to the date of change of control.
plan The Committee will take into account such factors as it consider relevant in relation to the bonus plan payment for the year in which the event occurs, including the proportion of the bonus plan year elapsed at the date of the event.
Long term On a change of control, a proportion of LTIP or LTBPP Awards will vest at the time of the relevant event.
incentives The proportion of LTIP or LTBPP Awards which vest on a change of control event shall be determined by the Committee taking into LTIP and account any relevant factors, including whether and to what extent any performance conditions have been satisfied.
LTBPP For the 2014 LTIP, the amount of time the LTIP Awards have been held on the date of the relevant change of control event will also be considered to determine the final vesting of the Awards.
contractual obligations 65 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Other Committee discretion In certain circumstances, the Committee will be required to exercise its discretion, taking into consideration the particular circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and or the recent performance of the Company in determining the specific level of payments to be made.
Further to the discretions set out in the tables above, under the terms of the annual bonus plan, Long Term Incentive Plan and the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan, the Committee has discretion to determine whether an individual is classified as a good leaver.
It should be noted that it is the Committees policy to only apply its discretion if the circumstances at the time are, in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
The Committee does not currently intend to amend or waive any performance conditions.
Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The graph below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Executive Directors based on our stated Remuneration Policy.
Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable for the reporting period as a result of the achievement of performance conditions that relate to that period i. e. annual bonus payments.
Maximum annual bonus opportunity is 25% of base salary for Executive Directors.
Multiple period Money or other assets received or receivable for multiple reporting periods as a result of the achievement of performance variable conditions over a given period which for the year ending 31 March 2015 includes the LTIP and the vesting of the three year LTBPP, based on performance to 31 March 2015.
Maximum LTIP opportunity is 100% of base salary for Executive Directors.
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows: Scenario Description Minimum Fixed pay only no variable payments under annual bonus and Companys LTIP or LTBPP.
On-target This has been based on 40% of annual bonus award being paid ie 10% of basic salary, 50% vesting of the LTIP and 50% vesting of the three year LTBPP.
Maximum This has been based on 100% of annual bonus award being paid ie 25% of basic salary and 100% vesting of the LTIP and 100% vesting of the three year LTBPP.
Particular consideration is given to the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions.
Furthermore, the Annual Bonus Plan award for Executive Directors is directly linked to the bonuses award to all staff.
The Directors are invited to be present at this meeting on the proposals for salary increase for the employee population generally and on any other changes to remuneration policy within the Company.
The information presented at this meeting is taken into consideration when setting the pay levels of the executive population.
Additionally the Committee has guidelines for the grant of all LTIP awards across the Company and responsibility for approving the total annual bonus cost of the Company.
The Company does not invite employees to comment on the Directors remuneration policy.
Statement of shareholders views The views of our shareholders are very important to us and the Committee is happy to receive constructive feedback with respect to our remuneration policies or structure which we take on board to formulate our arrangements.
Any consultations on remuneration with shareholders and institutional investors will usually be led by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders throughout the year, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are proposed to the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
Approval This policy report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by Tim Clark Remuneration Committee Chairman 67 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Remuneration Policy for Directors was implemented during the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
This section is subject to an external audit.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the year ended 31 March 2014.
Comparative figures for 2013 have also been provided.
Figures shown below have been calculated in accordance with the new remuneration disclosure regulations The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The prior year figure included benefit-in-kind interest from the previous LTBP scheme.
The value shown in long term incentives is the LTIP award granted in 2010 which vested on 12 July 2013 to 53.1% of its maximum value and is valued using the share price on that date of 428.8p.
The award granted for 2014 is 100% of salary for each Executive Director.
The average salary increase across the Group in the year was 2%.
The salary increase for John Trotman reflects his progress in his role, although it should be noted that his salary is still, in the view of the Committee, below market levels.
Additional details on variable pay in single figure table In order to execute its business strategy, the Company needs high-quality Executive Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, retain and motivate such individuals.
The annual bonus, the LTIP and the LTBPP are used to ensure that, when merited by performance, an opportunity is offered to earn competitive total remuneration.
The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder expectations and external advice regarding the market benchmarks.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are summarised in each of the following sections.
Annual Bonus Plan awards In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee, in consultation with the Executive Chairman in respect of the other Executive Directors.
The bonus paid to the Executive Directors of 10% of salary in the year is directly linked to the awards paid to the stores on achieving their targets during the course of the year.
The weighting of each target to the bonus paid in the year is: occupancy and net contribution 68%, customer satisfaction 24% and store standards 8%.
68 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards The awards granted under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years.
At the end of the performance period, the awards will vest to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied.
There is no retesting of performance conditions and if they are not satisfied, the awards will lapse.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP which vested in the year are set out below.
Vesting is conditional on the achievement of an underpin EPS growth of an average of 3% above RPI per annum.
This hurdle was met for the 2010 awards.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied for the 2010 award which vested in 2013, with the following results: Threshold Maximum LTIP value for meeting performance performance threshold and maximum Performance Condition Weighting required required performance % salary achieved Vesting % Relative TSR 100% Median of Upper quartile of 25% 100% 13th out of 31 in 53% comparator group the comparator comparator group of real estate group companies Total 100% 53% Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
Sharesave Scheme The Groups Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees including Executive Directors with a minimum of six months service and meets UK HMRC approval requirements, thus enabling all eligible employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company in a tax efficient manner.
The four Executive Directors all participated in the scheme during the financial year.
Pension entitlements The Company pays pension contributions into the Executive Directors personal pension plans or makes a cash contribution in lieu of pension contributions.
They do not participate in any defined benefit scheme.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company contribution was 10% of salary for the Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director paid in the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Board concluded that the fee structure in place was outdated and required revision, with the current fees now broadly in line with median for comparable companies and FTSE 250.
It has implemented a new structure of NonExecutive Directors fees for the year ended 31 March 2014, comprising of a base fee of 36,000 per annum, with an additional 2,500 for a Committee Chairman, and an additional 2,500 for the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Where a Non-Executive Director provides significant specialist advice to the Group, and hence additional time commitment to the Group, an additional fee of 2,500 may be paid.
69 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Long term incentives awarded in year ended 31 March 2014 The table below sets out the details of the long term incentive awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2014 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of award Maximum Face value vesting at threshold percentage of face Performance Performance 1 Director Award type LTIP awarded of award performance value that could vest period end date conditions Nicholas V etch 254,200 EPS growth and 100% of salary relative TSR see James Gibson 278,800 LTIP annual 25% 100% 22 July 2016 below for further cycle of awards 100% of average Adrian Lee 193,200 details of the 2013 14 base John Trotman salary 193,200 2014 conditions Note: 1.
The face value of the award is calculated using the average share price three days prior to the 2014 AGM grant date.
The performance conditions applicable to awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2014 are set out below: Threshold Maximum LTIP value for meeting performance performance threshold and maximum Condition Weighting required required performance % salary Basis for measurement Relative TSR 100% Median of Upper quartile of 25% - 100% Average of the Groups closing mid-market comparator group the comparator share price over the three months of real estate group preceding the start of the performance companies period and preceding the end of the performance period will be used.
Total 100% Between threshold and maximum performance, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
In respect of the EPS underpin, the adjusted EPS figure reported in the audited results of the Group for the last complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period will be used.
Payments to past Directors No payments of money or any other assets were made to any former Director of Big Yellow Group in the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
Payments on loss of office No payments were made to any Directors in respect of loss of office during the financial year ended 31 March 2014 2013: no payments.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors including: setting salaries: agreeing conditions and coverage of annual incentive schemes and long term incentives: policy and scope for pension arrangements: determining targets for performance related schemes: scope and content of service contracts: and deciding extent of compensation if any on termination of service contracts.
The Committees members are currently Tim Clark Committee Chairman, Richard Cotton, Georgina Harvey from 1 July 2013, Steve Johnson and Mark Richardson.
The Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Company website.
The Committee met four times during the year.
70 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee consults with the Executive Chairman, Nicholas Vetch, about proposals on a range of matters relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the levels of overall remuneration, salary and bonus, and awards and distributions under the share incentive and bonus plans.
The Committee relies upon remuneration data provided by a number of third party providers, including PwC.
In addition, PwC has provided advice to the Committee on the preparation of this report as well as on market practice and trends.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also provided advisory work during the year around pensions auto-enrolment and VAT advice.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
Fees in relation to Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee in 2013 14 remuneration advice PwC Remuneration Advice on executive remuneration market practice and trends.
10,500 Committee in 2008 Advice on new reporting requirements.
Support with regards to the preparation of the 2014 Remuneration Report.
Drafting of scheme rules for the renewal of the Sharesave scheme.
Statement of Directors shareholding The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of 100% of base salary.
These requirements have been met by all Executive Directors during the year.
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are set out below all interests are beneficial interests, except where noted specifically below.
No changes took place in the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2014 and the date of this report.
The table below shows, in relation to each Director, the total number of shares and share options in which they are interested: LTIP LTBPP Share Share awards awards Sharesave ownership ownership Beneficially subject to subject to Unexercised options requirement requirements owned performance performance sharesave exercised in the Director % of salary met shares conditions conditions options financial year Nicholas Vetch 100% Yes 9,165,020 224,556 337,500 3,428 James Gibson 100% Yes 2,529,226 246,267 487,500 2,965 Adrian Lee 100% Yes 776,323 164,949 337,500 3,745 John Trotman 100% Yes 76,489 164,949 337,500 3,745 Richard Cotton N a N a 58,919 Mark Richardson N a N a 24,668 Tim Clark N a N a 15,000 Steve Johnson N a N a 10,000 Georgina Harvey N a N a 10,000 71 Remuneration Report continued For the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors share options To provide further context on the shareholding of Directors, Options in respect of ordinary shares for Directors who served in the year are as below: No.
The Group is a member of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
TSR Performance from 1 April 2004 600 500 400 Big Yellow Group FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 300 FTSE All Share Index 200 100 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 72 CEO Remuneration The table below sets out the details of remuneration of the CEO over the past five financial years.
CEO single figure of Annual bonus pay out Long term incentive vesting rates total remuneration % against maximum against maximum opportunity Year of 25% of salary % 2014 536,262 40% 10% of salary 53% 2013 335,891 40% 10% of salary 0% 2012 1,400,570 40% 10% of salary 89% 2011 325,968 40% 10% of salary 0% 2010 875,593 40% 10% of salary 100% The single figure of remuneration for 2012 is higher than in previous years due to the vesting of the three year Long Term Bonus Performance Plan in this year delivering a reward of 900,000.
Percentage increase in the CEOs remuneration The table below compares the percentage increase in the CEOs remuneration including salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus with the remuneration of Big Yellow Group employees.
% increase in remuneration in 2014 compared with 2013 CEO Employees Salary and fees 2% 2% All taxable benefits 39% 2% Annual bonuses 2% 2% Total 1% 2% Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the year ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 compared with other disbursements from profit, being the distributions to shareholders and retained earnings comprehensive gain for the year less dividends.
