governance and remuneration R EmunERation REpoRt this year you are asked to vote separately When setting pay the Committee also bears on our Remuneration policy and our in mind that, as well as providing motivation Remuneration implementation Report.
to perform, pay plays an important role in attracting and retaining the most talented our Remuneration policy is set out first employees.
our policy needs to be competitive on pages 84 to 93 and the Remuneration with alternative employment opportunities.
implementation Report that shows pay for 2013 14 follows this.
Both parts are in the in the current environment the Committee format required by the Large and mediumrecognises that a listed companys sized Companies and Groups accounts and remuneration policy can be a contentious Reports amendment Regulations 2013. issue: as such, consultation with shareholders, the vote on the Remuneration policy is regular policy reviews and clear, transparent binding and the vote on the Remuneration reporting are essential to ensure that British implementation Report is advisory.
Lands Remuneration policy meets the requirements of its shareholders.
RemuneRation PhilosoPhy this approach has led us to use two main at British Land, our objective is to deliver DeaR shaReholDeR, structures within each Directors remuneration superior total shareholder returns: package.
Firstly, we have basic salary and it is my pleasure to introduce to achieve this we must produce consistent benefits that are fixed annually at norms broadly outperformance of our peers over a sustained our new format Remuneration consistent with the Companys FtSE position, period of time, through focusing our efforts with appropriate variance for specialist Report.
on the activities that we believe will be most positions.
Secondly, each Directors annual value-enhancing to shareholders.
We do this incentive and share scheme awards under the by creating places people prefer.
pages 30 matching Share plan mSp and Long-term to 37 in our Strategic Report describe how incentive plan Ltip are variable: their we deliver this strategy and manage risk.
magnitudes reflect both Company performance We ensure that we have strong alignment of and the performance of the Directors specific management incentives with our stated areas of responsibility.
these variable elements strategy, thereby matching the interests of the can move total pay above median into the upper Directors with those of the shareholders.
the quartile, but only for upper quartile different elements of Directors remuneration performance.
the amount received is strongly packages at British Land have been carefully linked to outperformance of our peers, hitting chosen so that they are supportive of and our challenging goals, share price performance relevant to the four focus areas of our business and meeting the Companys strategic targets model: right places, customer orientation, over one and three-year time horizons.
capital efficiency and expert people.
pages 31 Full details of the approach including the to 35 describe the link between our focus performance measures and maximum areas and our key incentive measures.
these amounts are set out in the Remuneration policy.
measures are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that this crucial link substantial changes maDe is maintained.
DuRing the yeaR our Ltip expired in July 2013 and we asked as part of this, pay policy should provide you to approve a new Ltip.
after detailed effective incentives for exceptional Company, consultation with shareholders and team and individual performance, with shareholders advisory bodies the following significant upward and downward variability.
changes were introduced: the Company targets a high-performance, open and meritocratic culture where people the Ltip performance condition was are motivated individually and as a team changed so that 50% will be measured to outperform competitors, subject to by comparing British Lands annual total maintenance of quality and security.
the property Return against ipDs annual uK business model is people-light and asset-heavy total property Return, as this best measures it leverages the work, skill and judgement our business strategy of targeting property of a relatively small team over a large outperformance.
the other 50% of the value of assets.
this means British Lands condition will measure our total accounting expectations of staff are high and there Return against 16 FtSE 350 peers, as this is a scarcity value on proven performers.
best measures our business strategy of producing outperformance at the return on capital level and takes into account naV per share and dividends.
82 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration to support the one team approach, the key activities of the RemuneRation RemuneRation RePoRt 82107 Chief Executives maximum annual incentive committee 2013 14 Remuneration policy 84 award was reduced from 180% of basic approval of the 2012 13 Remuneration Remuneration implementation Report 94 salary to 150%, and his Ltip maximum Report.
award value was reduced from 250% of basic salary to 200% these changes Review of Company performance brought the Chief Executive in line with against targets for 2012 13. the other Executive Directors: approval of Company and Directors to reflect shareholder views, the vesting performance objectives for 2013 14. percentage for median performance under Review of: the mSp was reduced from 35% to 25%: Chief Executives Remuneration: the number of companies within the mSp total shareholder return measure peer Executive Directors salaries and group was increased from five to 16. this bonuses: is the same peer group used under the Ltip employees salaries and bonuses: and total accounting Return measure: and the Committees response to the clawback provisions were introduced within Financial Reporting Councils Directors the new Ltip and the mSp awards.
the new Ltip and the Remuneration Report approval of discretionary share scheme received overwhelming support from you at grants and vestings.
the aGm in July 2013 with votes in favour of over 96% and 98% respectively.
the detailed approval of all-employee share scheme results of the voting are set out on page 107. grants.
Salaries for Executive Directors were not Consideration of the new regulations increased on 1 april 2013. applying to the 2013 14 Remuneration Report and the binding shareholder vote context of Decisions maDe in 2013 14 on Remuneration policy at the 2014 aGm.
as you will see from our financial results the Company has performed strongly throughout the financial year, meeting or exceeding all RemuneRation committee membeRs but one of its targets.
Details of British Lands lord turnbull Chairman of the performance and the targets set for the next Remuneration financial year can be found on pages 97 and Committee and 94 respectively.
Senior independent Director no salary increases for Executive Directors were given on 1 april 2014, as the current Dido harding member salary levels remain correctly positioned William Jackson member in the market around the median of our comparator group.
RemuneRation committee attenDees Following the detailed consultation and 1 alan Judes Strategic changes made in 2013 14 it is not proposed attends by invitation Remuneration, that any further changes be made to our Committees independent advisor Remuneration policy at the present time.
We very much valued your comments and anthony braine Group Secretary attends as Secretary support for our Remuneration policy last to the Committee year and hope that you will continue to be supportive of our Remuneration policy and John gildersleeve Chairman of the our Remuneration implementation Report attends by invitation Company at our aGm in July.
chris grigg Chief Executive attends by invitation Joff sharpe Human Resources lord turnbull attends by invitation Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 the Committee has appointed alan Judes as its independent advisor.
Further detail is provided in the Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration paragraph on page 107.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
