DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY POLICY This is an extract from the 2013 Annual Report and sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy approved at the 2014 annual general meeting held on the 23 April 2014 and is effective from that date for all payments made to Directors.
The Policy is reproduced here for ease of reference only and the table below must be read alongside its footnotes, which together set out and explain the Policy.
Page number references relating to the 2013 Annual Report have been removed.
FIXED REMUNERATION Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Base salary Ensure the Company continues to attract Paid monthly in cash.
In undertaking reviews, the Committee will take into account Benchmarking considered at both base salary and total remuneration and retain quality leaders.
factors including market conditions and the level of salary level, and the Committee generally considers that pay will be within Pensionable.
increases awarded to other employees of the Group, and a a range of - 10% of median benchmark but also takes into account Recognise: Reviewed annually by the Committee.
comparison against both a relevant property peer group and such other factors as it considers appropriate and is not constrained Accountabilities a market cap group as selected by the Committee currently by this default.
Skills the largest REITs and an appropriate pan-sector group of The base salary for any Executive Director shall not exceed 850,000 Experience companies with a comparable market capitalisation.
per annum or the equivalent if denominated in a different currency.
Value Benchmarked against the main markets in which Hammerson competes for talent.
Pension Ensure the Company continues to attract Executive Directors may receive an allowance Pension Choice to Arrangements for Executive Directors who participate in the Other and retain quality leaders.
be paid either i as an employer contribution to the Companys Hammerson Group Management Pension and Life Assurance In addition to receiving a salary supplement, Jean-Philippe Mouton defined contribution pension plan or ii as a payment to a SIPP Scheme Scheme participates in the collective supplementary defined contributions Provide market-competitive retirement personal pension plan or iii as a salary supplement or iv a The Scheme closed to new joiners at the start of 2003. retirement plan operated by his French employing company, and benefits.
The Pension Choice is up to an aggregate Peter Cole and David Atkins participate in the Scheme instead employer contributions are made at the annual statutory limit.
of the arrangements described on page 74.
The contractual pension entitlements of existing Executive Directors The salary supplement is non-pensionable and does not qualify for are set out in the summary of Executive Directors service agreements Scheme members affected by the UK annual allowance may AIP or LTIP entitlements.
on pages 82 and 83. choose to limit their benefit and receive a salary supplement No compensation for public policy or tax changes.
of the actuarially assessed balance, which is paid shortly after The Company will comply with any local legal obligations in respect the end of the relevant tax year.
The maximum benefit including in respect of any salary The Company keeps the pension arrangements for Executive supplement in lieu of accrual will remain 2 3 of final Directors under review to ensure they remain appropriate.
pensionable salary although the costs of such provision will change depending on, for example, actuarial assumptions.
Entitlement to receive Pension Choice of 30% of base salary if the Executive Director chooses to cease accruing service in the Scheme, payable only whilst employment continues.
170 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 74 74 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY POLICY APPROACH TO REMUNERATION POLICY Generally, two-thirds of the Executive Directors total target remuneration excluding pension and benefits is performance The overall objective of the Remuneration Committee Committee related, through an annual performance-related bonus plan is to determine an appropriate remuneration policy for Annual Incentive Plan or AIP and a long term incentive plan recommendation to the Board that ensures that the Company can Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP, and this is considered continue to attract, retain and motivate quality leaders who are to be appropriate.
capable of making a major contribution to the Companys success whilst avoiding paying more than the Committee considers necessary.
The Committee has received clear advice that formal limits are In implementing the Policy, the Committee takes into account various required in the Policy and has retained sufficient flexibility to factors, including remuneration packages available within other enable it to continue to act in the interests of the Company and its comparable companies, the Companys overall performance, internal shareholders.
The limits will not lead to pressure on reward levels relativities, achievement of corporate objectives, individual and the Committee is satisfied that it has adopted a suitably performance and experience, published views of institutional investors conservative approach to date and will continue to do so.
and general market trends performance.
FIXED FIXED REMUNER REMUNERA ATION TION P Purpose urpose, polic, policy and r y and role in suppor ole in supporting ting Elemen Element t the C the Compan ompany y s str s stra at teg egic objec ic objectiv tives es Oper Opera ation and oppor tion and opportunit tunity y Base salar Base salary y Ensur Ensure the C e the Compan ompany continues t y continues to attrac o attract t P Paid monthly in cash.
I In under n undertak taking r ing re evie views ws, the C, the Committ ommittee will tak ee will take int e into account o account Benchmar Benchmark king consider ing considered at both base salar ed at both base salary and t y and total r otal remuneration emuneration and r and retain qualit etain quality leaders y leaders.. fac fact tors including mar ors including mark ket conditions and the le et conditions and the lev vel of salar el of salary y le lev vel el, and the C, and the Committ ommittee generally considers that pa ee generally considers that pay will be within y will be within P Pensionable ensionable.. incr increases a eases awar warded t ded to other emplo o other employ yees of the Gr ees of the Group oup, and a, and a a range of - 10% of median benchmar a range of - 10% of median benchmark but also tak k but also takes int es into account o account R Recog ecognise: nise: R Re evie view wed annually b ed annually by the C y the Committ ommittee ee.. compar comparison against both a r ison against both a refile elevant pr vant proper opert ty peer g y peer gr roup and oup and such other fac such other fact tors as it considers appr ors as it considers appropr opriat iate and is not constrained e and is not constrained A Accountabilities ccountabilities a mar a mark ket cap g et cap gr roup as selec oup as select ted b ed by the C y the Committ ommittee ee cur curr rently ently b by this default.
Sk Skills ills the lar the largest REIT gest REITs and an appr s and an appropr opriat iate pan-sec e pan-sect tor g or gr roup of oup of For 2013 and 2014 T The base salar he base salary f y for an or any Ex y Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor shall not ex or shall not exceed 850,000 ceed 850,000 Exper Experience ience see pages 87 and 88. companies with a comparable mar companies with a comparable mark ket capitalisation.
per annum per annum or the equivalent if denominat or the equivalent if denominated in a diff ed in a differ erent cur ent curr renc ency.
y. V Value alue Benchmar Benchmark ked against the main mar ed against the main mark kets in ets in which Hammerson compet which Hammerson competes f es for talent.
P Pension ension Ensur Ensure the C e the Compan ompany continues t y continues to attrac o attract t Ex Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ma ors may r y receiv eceive an allo e an allowance P wance Pension Choice t ension Choice to o A Arr rrangements for Ex angements for Executiv ecutive D e Dir irectors who par ectors who participate in the ticipate in the O Other ther and r and retain qualit etain quality leaders y leaders.. be paid either i as an emplo be paid either i as an employ yer contr er contribution t ibution to the C o the Compan ompany ys s Hammerson Gr Hammerson Group Management P oup Management Pension and Life A ension and Life Assur ssuranc ance e I In addition t n addition to r o receiving a salar eceiving a salary supplement, J y supplement, Jean-P ean-Philippe M hilippe Mout outon on defined contr defined contribution pension plan or ii as a pa ibution pension plan or ii as a payment t yment to a SIPP o a SIPP S Scheme S cheme Scheme cheme par participat ticipates in the collec es in the collectiv tive supplementar e supplementary defined contr y defined contributions ibutions P Pr ro ovide mar vide mark ket et- -competitiv competitive r e retir etirement ement personal pension plan or iii as a salar personal pension plan or iii as a salary supplement or iv a y supplement or iv a T The S he Scheme closed t cheme closed to ne o new joiners at the star w joiners at the start of 2003. t of 2003. r retir etirement plan operat ement plan operated b ed by his F y his Fr rench emplo ench employing compan ying company y, and, and benefits benefits.. combination of all thr combination of all three ee.. T The P he Pension Choice is up t ension Choice is up to an agg o an aggr regat egate e P Pet eter C er Cole and Da ole and David A vid Atk tkins par ins participat ticipate in the S e in the Scheme inst cheme instead ead emplo employ yer contr er contributions ar ibutions are made at the annual statut e made at the annual statutor ory limit.
limit of 30% of base salar limit of 30% of base salary y.. of the ar of the arrangements descr rangements described opposite.
For 2013 T The contrac he contractual pension entitlements of existing Ex tual pension entitlements of existing Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ors see pages 87 and T The salar he salary supplement is non-pensionable and does not qualify f y supplement is non-pensionable and does not qualify for or ar are set out in the summar e set out in the summary of Ex y of Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ors ser service ag vice agr reements eements S Scheme members aff cheme members affec ect ted b ed by the UK annual allo y the UK annual allowance ma wance may y 92 to 93.
AIP or L AIP or LTIP entitlements TIP entitlements.. produced later in this policy.
on pages 82 and 83. choose t choose to limit their benefit and r o limit their benefit and receiv eceive a salar e a salary supplement y supplement No compensation f No compensation for public polic or public policy or tax changes y or tax changes.. of the ac of the actuar tuarially assessed balance ially assessed balance, which is paid shor, which is paid shortly af tly aft ter er T The C he Compan ompany will comply with an y will comply with any local legal obligations in r y local legal obligations in respec espect t the end of the r the end of the refile elevant tax y vant tax year ear.. of pensions of pensions.. NonNon-contr contribut ibutor ory f y for Ex or Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ors.. T The maximum benefit including in r he maximum benefit including in respec espect of an t of any salar y salary y T The C he Compan ompany k y keeps the pension ar eeps the pension arrangements f rangements for Ex or Executiv ecutive e supplement in lieu of accrual will r supplement in lieu of accrual will remain 2 3 of final emain 2 3 of final Dir Direc ect tors under r ors under re evie view t w to ensur o ensure the e they r y remain appr emain appropr opriat iate e.. pensionable salar pensionable salary although the costs of such pr y although the costs of such pro ovision will vision will change depending on, f change depending on, for example or example, ac, actuar tuarial assumptions ial assumptions.. Entitlement t Entitlement to r o receiv eceive P e Pension Choice of 30% of base salar ension Choice of 30% of base salary y if the Ex if the Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor chooses t or chooses to cease accruing ser o cease accruing service in vice in the S the Scheme cheme, pa, payable only whilst emplo yable only whilst employment continues yment continues.. www.
com 171 74 74 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 75 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIXED REMUNERATION CONTINUED Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Benefits Provide a range of benefits in line with Executive Directors may receive such contractual and nonBenefits are non-pensionable.
In addition to the benefits outlined: general practice.
contractual benefits as the Committee considers to be appropriate Where benefits are provided by a third-party provider, the Where Executive Directors are relocated to work in a different country and consistent with market practice in the relevant market in Ensure the Company continues to attract Company covers the cost at market rates.
the Company may i pay global relocation support up to a maximum of which the Executive Director is based.
400,000 : and or ii provide tax equalisation arrangements in relation to The aggregate value of contractual and non-contractual These benefits currently include a car allowance or a company car, all elements of remuneration.
benefits received by each Executive Director based on the private medical insurance for the Executive Director and their value included in the individuals annual P1 1D tax calculation While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the spouse life partner, and permanent health insurance and or a broadly equivalent basis for a non-UK based Executive normal sense, Executive Directors can participate in corporate hospitality life assurance.
Director shall not exceed 100,000 per annum with this including travel and where appropriate, with a family member, whether Benefits additionally available to employees of Hammerson France maximum increasing annually at the rate of RPI.
paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
currently include seniority allowance and an employers contribution of up to 2,000 per annum to an employee savings scheme.
VARIABLE, PERFORMANCE RELATED REMUNERATION Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Performance Annual Incentive Align Executive Director remuneration The current maximum bonus opportunity is 200% of base salary.
Deferred shares element The performance measures and conditions will be set by the Committee Plan AIP, with with annual financial and Company The deferred shares element is currently awarded under the on an annual basis.
The Committee reserves the power to increase the maximum deferral under the strategic targets as determined by the DBSS but may be delivered under a different plan with bonus opportunity to up to 300% of base salary, although there is The performance conditions will be assessed over a period of one year, Deferred Bonus Companys Business Plan for the relevant equivalent terms.
no current intention to do so.
The Committee would only increase and may consist of a combination of: Share Scheme financial year.
the maximum bonus level above the current 200% of base salary The deferral period is currently two years, and may not Financial measures at the group or divisional level : DBSS In the view of the Committee, to after appropriate consultation with shareholders.
Operational measures: and differentiate appropriately on the basis Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver The deferred shares are subject to the leaver conditions as Individual performance objectives.
circumstances described in the Payment for Loss of Office section set out in the Payment for Loss of Office section of this Policy.
The Committee reserves the right to include such other measures as it Partial award in shares aligns interests of this Policy.
No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares considers to be an appropriate means of assessing the performance of with shareholders and supports retention.
Awards are paid in a mix of cash and deferred shares, with the as these represent previously earned bonuses.
deferred shares element being at least 40% of the total award.
The awards are structured as nil-cost share options.
The Committee retains discretion to amend the vesting level up or down Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of personal Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the where it considers it to be appropriate, but not so as to exceed the misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to period from grant until the vesting date, delivered as maximum bonus potential.
performance are shown to be materially wrong and the bonus additional shares when the shares are transferred Once set, performance measures and conditions will generally remain paid was higher than should have been the case.
unchanged for the year, except in exceptional circumstances.
Long Term Incentivise the creation of long-term A discretionary annual award up to a value of 200% of base salary.
Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the The performance measures may consist of a combination of financial Incentive Plan returns for shareholders.
The Committee reserves the power to increase the maximum award period from grant until the vesting date, delivered as and non-financial measures.
LTIP to 300% of base salary in exceptional circumstances, although there additional shares when the shares are transferred Align interests of Executive Directors with Vesting under each condition is on a straight line basis with no more is no current intention to do so.
The extent of vesting is determined to the participant.
than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion to settle awards as a cash Support retention.
The LTIP rules impose a minimum performance period of three years.
Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver payment in place of the transfer of shares.
However, the Committee has determined that the performance period The performance period is set to reflect circumstances described in the Payment for Loss of Office section Non-pensionable.
the capital intensive and cyclical nature of this Policy.
Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of The Committee retains the discretion to amend the performance measures Awards are normally structured as nil-cost share options but can personal misconduct and or where accounts or information and or conditions used, and or the weighting of each for future awards and The choice of performance measures is take other forms for example, awards made to France-based relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong or the performance measurement periods.
It is the current intention of the determined by those drivers which deliver employees may be made in the form of a conditional award and vesting was higher than should have been the case.
Committee that future awards be granted with the same performance value to shareholders in the longer term.
measures and conditions as for the 2014 awards detailed on page 90 to 91.
Once set, the Committee may only amend the performance conditions in respect of outstanding awards in the event that exceptional circumstances occur which make it appropriate to do so, provided that the amended condition is not, in the view of the Committee, materially less difficult to satisfy.
172 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 76 76 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED FIXED FIXED REMUNER REMUNERA ATION TION C CONTINUED ONTINUED P Purpose urpose, polic, policy and r y and role in suppor ole in supporting ting Elemen Element t the C the Compan ompany y s str s stra at teg egic objec ic objectiv tives es Oper Opera ation and oppor tion and opportunit tunity y B Benefits enefits P Pr ro ovide a range of benefits in line with vide a range of benefits in line with Ex Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ma ors may r y receiv eceive such contrac e such contractual and nontual and nonBenefits ar Benefits are non-pensionable e non-pensionable..
I In addition t n addition to the benefits outlined: o the benefits outlined: general prac general practice tice.. contrac contractual benefits as the C tual benefits as the Committ ommittee considers t ee considers to be appr o be appropr opriat iate e Wher Where benefits ar e benefits are pr e pro ovided b vided by a thir y a third-par d-part ty pr y pro ovider vider, the, the Wher Where Ex e Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ar ors are r e relocat elocated t ed to w o wor ork in a diff k in a differ erent countr ent country y and consist and consistent with mar ent with mark ket prac et practice in the r tice in the refile elevant mar vant mark ket in et in Ensur Ensure the C e the Compan ompany continues t y continues to attrac o attract t C Compan ompany co y cov vers the cost at mar ers the cost at mark ket rat et rates es.. the C the Compan ompany ma y may i pa y i pay global r y global relocation suppor elocation support up t t up to a maximum of o a maximum of which the Ex which the Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor is based or is based.. and r and retain qualit etain quality leaders y leaders.. 400,000 : and or ii pr 400,000 : and or ii pro ovide tax equalisation ar vide tax equalisation arrangements in r rangements in relation t elation to o T The agg he aggr regat egate value of contrac e value of contractual and nontual and non-contrac contractual tual T These benefits cur hese benefits curr rently include a car allo ently include a car allowance or a compan wance or a company car y car, all elements of r all elements of remuneration.
benefits r benefits receiv eceived b ed by each Ex y each Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor based on the or based on the For 2013 pr privat ivate medical insurance f e medical insurance for the Ex or the Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor and their or and their value included in the individual value included in the individuals annual s annual P P1 1 1 1D D tax calculation tax calculation While the C While the Committ ommittee does not consider it t ee does not consider it to f o for orm par m part of benefits in the t of benefits in the see page 87. spouse lif spouse life par e partner, and per tner, and permanent health insurance and manent health insurance and or a br or a broadly equivalent basis f oadly equivalent basis for a non-UK based Ex or a non-UK based Executiv ecutive e nor normal sense mal sense, Ex, Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors can par ors can participat ticipate in cor e in corporat porate hospitalit e hospitality y lif life assurance e assurance.. Dir Direc ect tor shall not ex or shall not exceed 100,000 per annum with this ceed 100,000 per annum with this including tra including trav vel and wher el and where appr e appropr opriat iate e, with a family member, whether, with a family member, whether Benefits additionally a Benefits additionally available t vailable to emplo o employ yees of Hammerson F ees of Hammerson France rance maximum incr maximum increasing annually at the rat easing annually at the rate of RPI.
paid f paid for b or by the C y the Compan ompany or another y or another, within its ag, within its agr reed policies eed policies.. cur curr rently include senior ently include seniorit ity allo y allowance and an emplo wance and an employ yer ers s contr contribution of up t ibution of up to 2,000 per annum t o 2,000 per annum to an emplo o an employ yee ee sa savings scheme vings scheme.. V VARIABLE ARIABLE, PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE REL RELA ATED TED REMUNER REMUNERA ATION TION P Purpose urpose, polic, policy and r y and role in suppor ole in supporting ting Elemen Element t the C the Compan ompany y s str s stra at teg egic objec ic objectiv tives es Oper Opera ation and oppor tion and opportunit tunity y P Per erf formanc ormance e Annual I Annual Inc ncen entiv tive e Alig Align Ex n Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tor r or remuneration emuneration T The cur he curr rent maximum bonus oppor ent maximum bonus opportunit tunity is 200% of base salar y is 200% of base salary y.. D Deferr eferred shar ed shares element es element T The per he perf for ormance measur mance measures and conditions will be set b es and conditions will be set by the C y the Committ ommittee ee P Plan lan AIP, with AIP, with with annual financial and C with annual financial and Compan ompany y T The def he defer err red shar ed shares element is cur es element is curr rently a ently awar warded under the ded under the on an annual basis on an annual basis.. T The C he Committ ommittee r ee reser eserv ves the po es the pow wer t er to incr o increase the maximum ease the maximum def defer err ral under the al under the strat strateg egic tar ic targets as det gets as deter ermined b mined by the y the DBSS but ma DBSS but may be deliv y be deliver ered under a diff ed under a differ erent plan with ent plan with bonus oppor bonus opportunit tunity t y to up t o up to 300% of base salar o 300% of base salary y, although ther, although there is e is T The per he perf for ormance conditions will be assessed o mance conditions will be assessed ov ver a per er a period of one y iod of one year ear, D Def efer err red B ed Bonus onus C Compan ompany ys Business P s Business Plan f lan for the r or the refile elevant vant equivalent t equivalent ter erms.
ms. no cur no curr rent int ent intention t ention to do so o do so.. T The C he Committ ommittee w ee would only incr ould only increase ease and ma and may consist of a combination of y consist of a combination of:: Shar Share S e Scheme cheme financial y financial year ear.. the maximum bonus le the maximum bonus lev vel abo el abov five the cur e the curr rent 200% of base salar ent 200% of base salary y T The def he defer erral per ral period is cur iod is curr rently t ently tw wo y o years ears, and ma, and may not y not F Financial measur inancial measures at the g es at the gr roup or divisional le oup or divisional lev vel : el : DBSS DBSS I In the vie n the view of the C w of the Committ ommittee ee, t, to o af aft ter appr er appropr opriat iate consultation with shar e consultation with shareholders eholders.. be shor be short ter er..
Operational measur Operational measures: and es: and diff differ erentiat entiate appr e appropr opriat iately on the basis ely on the basis A Awar wards ar ds are subjec e subject t t to continued emplo o continued employment, sa yment, sav five in the lea e in the leav ver er T The def he defer err red shar ed shares ar es are subjec e subject t t to the lea o the leav ver conditions as er conditions as I Individual per ndividual perf for ormance objec mance objectiv tives es.. of per of perf for ormance mance.. cir circumstances descr cumstances described in the P ibed in the Pa ayment f yment for L or Loss of O oss of Office sec ffice section tion set out in the P set out in the Pa ayment f yment for L or Loss of O oss of Office sec ffice section of this P tion of this Polic olicy y.. T The C he Committ ommittee r ee reser eserv ves the r es the right t ight to include such other measur o include such other measures as it es as it P Par artial a tial awar ward in shar d in shares alig es aligns int ns inter erests ests of this P of this Polic olicy y.. No fur No further per ther perf for ormance tar mance targets apply t gets apply to the def o the defer err red shar ed shares es considers t considers to be an appr o be an appropr opriat iate means of assessing the per e means of assessing the perf for ormance of mance of with shar with shareholders and suppor eholders and supports r ts ret etention.
A Awar wards ar ds are paid in a mix of cash and def e paid in a mix of cash and defer err red shar ed shares es, with the, with the as these r as these repr epresent pr esent pre eviously ear viously earned bonuses ned bonuses.. For 2013 the Ex the Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors ors.. def defer err red shar ed shares element being at least 40% of the t es element being at least 40% of the total a otal awar ward d.. T The a he awar wards ar ds are struc e structur tured as niled as nil-cost shar cost share options e options.. see pages 87 and T The C he Committ ommittee r ee retains discr etains discretion t etion to amend the v o amend the vesting le esting lev vel up or do el up or down wn 88 to 89.
Subjec Subject t t to cla o clawback and malus pr wback and malus pro ovisions in situations of personal visions in situations of personal P Par articipants ar ticipants are entitled t e entitled to a dividend equivalent f o a dividend equivalent for the or the wher where it considers it t e it considers it to be appr o be appropr opriat iate e, but not so as t, but not so as to ex o exceed the ceed the misconduc misconduct and or wher t and or where accounts or inf e accounts or infor ormation r mation refile elevant t vant to o per period fr iod from g om grant until the v rant until the vesting dat esting date e, deliv, deliver ered as ed as maximum bonus pot maximum bonus potential ential.. per perf for ormance ar mance are sho e shown t wn to be mat o be mater erially wr ially wrong and the bonus ong and the bonus additional shar additional shares when the shar es when the shares ar es are transf e transfer err red ed Once set, per Once set, perf for ormance measur mance measures and conditions will generally r es and conditions will generally remain emain paid was higher than should ha paid was higher than should hav five been the case e been the case.. t to the par o the participant.
unchanged f unchanged for the y or the year ear, ex, except in ex cept in exceptional cir ceptional circumstances cumstances.. Non-pensionable Non-pensionable.. L Long T ong Ter erm m I Incentivise the cr ncentivise the creation of long-t eation of long-ter erm m A discr A discretionar etionary annual a y annual awar ward up t d up to a value of 200% of base salar o a value of 200% of base salary y.. P Par articipants ar ticipants are entitled t e entitled to a dividend equivalent f o a dividend equivalent for the or the T The per he perf for ormance measur mance measures ma es may consist of a combination of financial y consist of a combination of financial I Inc ncen entiv tive P e Plan lan r retur eturns f ns for shar or shareholders eholders.. T The C he Committ ommittee r ee reser eserv ves the po es the pow wer t er to incr o increase the maximum a ease the maximum awar ward d per period fr iod from g om grant until the v rant until the vesting dat esting date e, deliv, deliver ered as ed as and non-financial measur and non-financial measures es.. L LTIP TIP t to 300% of base salar o 300% of base salary in ex y in exceptional cir ceptional circumstances cumstances, although ther, although there e additional shar additional shares when the shar es when the shares ar es are transf e transfer err red ed Alig Align int n inter erests of Ex ests of Executiv ecutive Dir e Direc ect tors with ors with V Vesting under each condition is on a straight line basis with no mor esting under each condition is on a straight line basis with no more e is no cur is no curr rent int ent intention t ention to do so o do so.. T The ex he ext tent of v ent of vesting is det esting is deter ermined mined t to the par o the participant.
shar shareholders eholders.. than 25% v than 25% vesting at thr esting at threshold per eshold perf for ormance mance.. b by the per y the perf for ormance conditions mance conditions.. T The C he Committ ommittee has discr ee has discretion t etion to settle a o settle awar wards as a cash ds as a cash Suppor Support r t ret etention.
T The L he LTIP rules impose a minimum per TIP rules impose a minimum perf for ormance per mance period of thr iod of three y ee years ears.. A Awar wards ar ds are subjec e subject t t to continued emplo o continued employment, sa yment, sav five in the lea e in the leav ver er pa payment in place of the transf yment in place of the transfer of shar er of shares es.. Ho How we ev ver er, the C, the Committ ommittee has det ee has deter ermined that the per mined that the perf for ormance per mance period iod T The per he perf for ormance per mance period is set t iod is set to r o reflec eflect t cir circumstances descr cumstances described in the P ibed in the Pa ayment f yment for L or Loss of O oss of Office sec ffice section tion Non-pensionable Non-pensionable.. should be f should be four y our years ears.. the capital int the capital intensiv ensive and c e and cy yclical natur clical nature e For outstanding of this P of this Polic olicy y.. of Hammerson of Hammersons business s business.. Subjec Subject t t to cla o clawback and malus pr wback and malus pro ovisions in situations of visions in situations of T The C he Committ ommittee r ee retains the discr etains the discretion t etion to amend the per o amend the perf for ormance measur mance measures es awards and 2014 A Awar wards ar ds are nor e normally struc mally structur tured as niled as nil-cost shar cost share options but can e options but can personal misconduc personal misconduct and or wher t and or where accounts or inf e accounts or infor ormation mation and or conditions used and or conditions used, and or the w, and or the weighting of each f eighting of each for futur or future a e awar wards and ds and awards see pages T The choice of per he choice of perf for ormance measur mance measures is es is tak take other f e other for orms f ms for example or example, a, awar wards made t ds made to F o France rance-basedbased r refile elevant t vant to per o perf for ormance ar mance are sho e shown t wn to be mat o be mater erially wr ially wrong ong or the per or the perf for ormance measur mance measurement per ement periods iods.
It is the cur t is the curr rent int ent intention of the ention of the 90 to 91. det deter ermined b mined by those dr y those driv ivers which deliv ers which deliver er emplo employ yees ma ees may be made in the f y be made in the for orm of a conditional a m of a conditional awar ward d and v and vesting was higher than should ha esting was higher than should hav five been the case e been the case.. C Committ ommittee that futur ee that future a e awar wards be g ds be grant ranted with the same per ed with the same perf for ormance mance value t value to shar o shareholders in the longer t eholders in the longer ter erm.
m. of shar of shares es.. measur measures and conditions as f es and conditions as for the 2014 a or the 2014 awar wards.
Once set, the C Once set, the Committ ommittee ma ee may only amend the per y only amend the perf for ormance conditions in mance conditions in r respec espect of outstanding a t of outstanding awar wards in the e ds in the ev vent that ex ent that exceptional cir ceptional circumstances cumstances occur which mak occur which make it appr e it appropr opriat iate t e to do so o do so, pr, pro ovided that the amended vided that the amended condition is not, in the vie condition is not, in the view of the C w of the Committ ommittee ee, mat, mater erially less difficult t ially less difficult to satisfy o satisfy.. www.
com 173 76 76 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 77 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED OTHER Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Share ownership To encourage share ownership by the The Chief Executive is expected to accumulate and maintain a guidelines Executive Directors, in order to ensure holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less alignment with shareholders.
Other Executive Directors are expected to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to no less than 100% of base salary.
Shares to be included in the calculation are: Shares held beneficially by the Executive Director and the Executive Directors spouse life partner.
Shares held by the Executive Director under the Share Incentive Plan.
Executive Directors are normally required to achieve the minimum shareholding requirement within five years of the date of appointment.
The share price to be used for annual calculation of shareholdings as a percentage of salary is the closing middle market quotation on the last business day in December.
No formal sanctions exist for non-compliance.
All-employee In order to be able to offer participation UK based Executive Directors arrangements in these plans to employees generally, Eligible UK employees may participate in the Sharesave and Share the Company is either required by the Incentive Plan, and the Executive Directors will be entitled to relevant UK and French legislation to participate on those same terms.
Maximum participation levels allow Executive Directors to participate for all staff, including Executive Directors are set by relevant on the same terms, or chooses so to do.
France based Executive Director All employees of Hammerson France are eligible to participate in a profit share plan, which rewards performance against such measures as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
Awards are subject to an annual limit determined by French legislation.
The Committee considers the performance measures currently applied to the AIP and LTIP to be appropriate measures of performance.
It recognises the need to balance the enhancement of the portfolio including increasing net rental income and the efficient management of capital and, over the longer term, should be aligned to the interests of shareholders.
For details regarding remuneration of other Company employees, please refer to the section on Employee Pay and Conditions elsewhere in the Group.
All awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force, together with any awards outstanding on the a ppointment of an existing employee as a new Executive Director, will continue on their existing terms, including as to the exercise of discretion to amend such awards.
Those Awards granted as nil cost options prior to this Policy coming into fo rce entit le partic ipa nts option, rather than only until vesting as is the Companys future policy.
to a dividend equivalent for the period from grant until exercise of the 4.
Please refer to the section on Payment for Loss of Office for details regarding impact on the AIP, the DBSS and the LTIP following a change of control.
The Committee will determine components of remuneration for new Executive Directors, as outlined in the section on Recruitment.
For the AIP, DBSS and LTIP, clawback and malus provisions were introduced for awards made from 2012 onwards.
174 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 78 78 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED OTHER SCENARIOS Purpose, policy and role in supporting David Atkins Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Share ownership To encourage share ownership by the The Chief Executive is expected to accumulate and maintain a 3,000 guidelines Executive Directors, in order to ensure holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less 2,563 alignment with shareholders.
23% 2,500 Other Executive Directors are expected to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent 2,000 1,846 47% 1,731 in value to no less than 100% of base salary.
24% 24% 1,519 1,491 1,500 Shares to be included in the calculation are: 10% 23% 47% 39% 47% Shares held beneficially by the Executive Director and the 1,085 1,017 48% 10% 1,000 877 10% Executive Directors spouse life partner.
100% 100% 50% 29% 100% 50% 29% Executive Directors are normally required to achieve the 0 Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum minimum shareholding requirement within five years of the date of appointment.
Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term incentives The share price to be used for annual calculation of shareholdings as a percentage of salary is the closing middle market quotation ASSUMPTIONS on the last business day in December.
Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits, pension and participation in the UK all-employee share plans.
Base salary is that to be paid in 2014.
All-employee In order to be able to offer participation UK based Executive Directors Benefits are as shown in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2013 except for Jean-Philippe Mouton where the amount arrangements in these plans to employees generally, Eligible UK employees may participate in the Sharesave and Share he received under the profit sharing plan has been excluded from his 2013 benefits figure for these purposes.
See On-Target the Company is either required by the Incentive Plan, and the Executive Directors will be entitled to and Maximum below.
relevant UK and French legislation to participate on those same terms.
Maximum participation levels allow Executive Directors to participate Pensions are as shown in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2013 in the 2013 Annual Report.
for all staff, including Executive Directors are set by relevant on the same terms, or chooses so to do.
Jean-Philippe Moutons data has been converted at a rate of 1: 1.178.
France based Executive Director Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed 000 000 000 000 All employees of Hammerson France are eligible to participate in David Atkins 597 16 160 773 a profit share plan, which rewards performance against such Peter Cole 435 16 90 541 measures as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
Timon Drakesmtih 408 19 80 507 Awards are subject to an annual limit determined by French legislation.
Jean-Philippe Mouton 346 12 78 436 On-Target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with expectation excluding share price Notes appreciation and dividends : 1.
It recognises the need to balance AIP: consists of on-target levels equal to 50% of bonus maximum.
the enhancement of the portfolio including increasing net rental income and the efficient management of capital and, over the longer term, should be aligned to the interests of shareholders.
LTIP: consists of the threshold level of vesting, being 25% of the face value of the award.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : consists of on-target levels equal to 50% of the current capped 3.
All awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force, together with any awards outstanding on the a ppointment of an existing employee as a new Executive Director, vesting level of 18,186. will continue on their existing terms, including as to the exercise of discretion to amend such awards.
to a dividend equivalent for the period from grant until exercise of the Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share price appreciation and dividends : 4.
AIP: consists of the maximum bonus 200% of base salary.
LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards 100% of base salary for 2014 only.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : assumes maximum vesting at the current capped vesting level of 18,186. www.
com 175 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 78 78 www.
com 79 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED RECRUITMENT Approach to recruitment for Executive Directors Statement of Principles The Company will pay total remuneration for new Executive Directors that enables the Company to attract appropriately skilled and experienced individuals, but is not, in the opinion of the Committee, excessive.
The Company will not pay new Executive Directors any inducements to join the Company over and above buy-outs of existing forfeited awards, as outlined below.
The Company may provide a new Executive Director with global relocation support and or tax equalisation arrangements as set out in the Policy although, to date, the Company has not had occasion to do so.
Additionally, the Company may make a contribution towards legal fees in connection with agreeing employment terms.
Approach and limits Annual salary, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements including performance measures and or conditions and maximum award levels as described in the Policy will be the starting point for the structure of any package.
The level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director will not exceed the maximum AIP and LTIP limits that can be awarded in line with the principles set out in the Policy, with the exception of any compensation for variable remuneration forfeited.
The limits contained within the Policy for base salary do not apply to a new Executive Director either on joining or for any subsequent salary review within the period of this Policy, although the Committee would seek to avoid exceeding those limits in practice.
For a new Executive Director who is an internal appointment, the Company may also continue to honour contractual commitments made prior to the internal appointment even if those commitments are otherwise inconsistent with the Policy in force when the commitments are satisfied.
Any relevant incentive plan participation may either continue on its original terms or the performance conditions and or measures may be amended to reflect the individuals new role, as the Committee considers appropriate.
Compensation for variable remuneration forfeited by a new Executive Director The Company may, where appropriate, compensate a new Executive Director for variable remuneration that has been forfeited as a result of accepting the appointment with the Company.
Where the Company compensates a new Executive Director in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements, but may compensate on terms that are more bespoke than the existing arrangements where the Committee considers that to be appropriate.
In such instances, the Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such recruitment related compensation.
In making such awards the Committee will seek to take into account the nature including whether awards are cash or share-based, vesting period and performance measures and or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the individual when leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards had outstanding performance or service conditions which are not significantly completed the Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
In exceptional cases, the Committee may relax those requirements where it considers this to be in the interests of shareholders, for example through a significant discount to the face value of the replacement awards.
176 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 80 80 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED RECRUITMENT SERVICE AGREEMENTS Service agreements: New Executive Director appointments from 23 April 2014 Approach to recruitment for Executive Directors The Committees approach is for new Executive Directors to have service agreements that have regard to market practice at the Statement of Principles date of appointment.
The Company will pay total remuneration for new Executive Directors that enables the Company to attract appropriately skilled and experienced individuals, but is not, in the opinion of the Committee, excessive.
The key elements for service agreements for newly appointed Executive Directors will be: The Company will not pay new Executive Directors any inducements to join the Company over and above buy-outs of existing forfeited awards, as outlined below.
Notice period 12 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
A longer period of notice from the Company may apply to new appointments for a limited time if the The Company may provide a new Executive Director with global relocation support and or tax equalisation arrangements as set out in the Policy Committee considers this is appropriate, but would then reduce to no more than 12 months.
although, to date, the Company has not had occasion to do so.
Retirement date There is no default retirement age.
Requests for retirement are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Approach and limits At Executive Director level, it is anticipated that 12 months notice will be provided.
Annual salary, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements including performance measures and or conditions and Post-termination restrictions To protect the Groups confidential information for an appropriate period for that information, and to maximum award levels as described in the Policy will be the starting point for the structure of any package.
The level of variable remuneration prevent poaching of its senior workforce and its customer and supplier connections for 12 months that may be awarded to a new Executive Director will not exceed the maximum AIP and LTIP limits that can be awarded in line with the principles after termination.
set out in the Policy, with the exception of any compensation for variable remuneration forfeited.
The limits contained within the Policy for base salary do not apply to a new Executive Director either on joining or for any subsequent salary review within the period of this Policy, although the Payment in lieu of notice Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by paying a PILON comprising base pay, pension, Committee would seek to avoid exceeding those limits in practice.
PILON medical insurance and car allowance.
A PILON will not apply on termination for gross misconduct, in which situation no compensation will be due.
The Company will have discretion to pay on a phased basis, For a new Executive Director who is an internal appointment, the Company may also continue to honour contractual commitments made prior subject to mitigation.
to the internal appointment even if those commitments are otherwise inconsistent with the Policy in force when the commitments are satisfied.
Any relevant incentive plan participation may either continue on its original terms or the performance conditions and or measures may be Expiry date There will be no fixed expiry date.
The appointment of new Executive Directors will be terminable in amended to reflect the individuals new role, as the Committee considers appropriate.
accordance with the notice period.
Compensation for variable remuneration forfeited by a new Executive Director Change of control and The Executive Director will not have a right to liquidated damages.
The Company may, where appropriate, compensate a new Executive Director for variable remuneration that has been forfeited as a result of liquidated damages accepting the appointment with the Company.
Where the Company compensates a new Executive Director in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements, but may compensate on terms that are more bespoke than the The terms summarised above will be subject to any local statutory or collective bargaining requirements where applicable.
existing arrangements where the Committee considers that to be appropriate.
In making such awards the Committee will seek to take into account the OTHER APPOINTMENTS nature including whether awards are cash or share-based, vesting period and performance measures and or conditions for any remuneration Executive Directors are able to accept, with the consent of the Companys Board of Directors, non-executive appointments outside the Company forfeited by the individual when leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards had outstanding performance or service conditions which are provided that such appointments do not lead to a conflict of interests on the basis that such external appointments can enhance their not significantly completed the Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
In exceptional cases, the Committee may relax those experience and skills and add value to the Company.
Any fees received by an Executive Director for such external appointments can be retained requirements where it considers this to be in the interests of shareholders, for example through a significant discount to the face value of the by the individual except where the Executive Director is appointed as the Companys representative.
com 177 80 80 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 81 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED SERVICE AGREEMENTS CONTINUED Service agreements: Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 The following table sets out a description of any obligations contained in the UK Executive Directors service agreements which could give rise to, or impact upon, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
Peter Cole David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Date of service contract 28 February 2002 11 January 2008 18 January 2011 Expiry date Rolling service contracts with no fixed expiry date.
Notice period 12 months notice to the 12 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
Executive Director and six months notice from the Executive Director.
Base salary fee Base salary, subject to annual review save where the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
There is no obligation to increase base salary following a review.
Incentive plans Participation in the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP.
The rules of the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP that apply on cessation of employment are set out in the Payment for Loss of Office section of this Policy.
In addition, Timon Drakesmiths service agreement provides that he will be treated as a good leaver in respect of the bonus arrangements in the event of a successful claim for constructive dismissal.
1 2 Pension contributions Entitled to participate in the Scheme, subject to its rules.
Entitled to a Pension Choice of 20% of base salary.
Entitled to have benefits of the Scheme maintained or, on three months notice, to be provided with alternative arrangements which are actuarially no worse.
Contractual Insurance Permanent disability insurance.
benefits Personal accident and life insurance.
Private medical insurance for the Executive Director and his spouse life partner.
Car Each Executive Director receives a car allowance.
Sick pay Base salary plus contractual benefits for up to 26 weeks in any 12 month period.
Termination Notice Entitled to 12 months base pay and contractual benefits.
payments Payment in lieu Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by paying a Employment can be terminated of notice lump sum PILON comprising base salary, contractual benefits and a with immediate effect by PILON bonus based on the Executive Directors average bonus over the paying a PILON comprising previous three years but pro-rated to reflect the part of the bonus base salary, pension, medical year actually worked.
PILON will not apply on PILON will not apply on termination for gross misconduct.
termination for The Company has discretion to gross misconduct.
pay on a phased basis, subject The Company has discretion to to mitigation.
pay on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Liquidated Entitlement to liquidated damages calculated by reference to PILON if the Company terminates the damages employment in breach of the service agreement or if, within 12 months after a change of control, the Change of Company terminates the employment or the Executive Director terminates the employment because of Control a fundamental breach by the Company.
Liquidated damages are subject to deductions for new earnings.
For details of Scheme participation please see the Pension section in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report on page 82.
Pension Choice is explained in the Fixed Remuneration section of this Policy.
178 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 82 82 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED SERVICE AGREEMENTS CONTINUED Service agreements: Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 Jean-Philippe Mouton has been employed by Hammerson Asset Management SAS HAM since 14 April 2003 as Divisional Director France.
He is based and works in France and, as a result, it was considered appropriate for him to continue to be employed under a French law governed The following table sets out a description of any obligations contained in the UK Executive Directors service agreements which could give rise to, employment contract with HAM upon his appointment as Executive Director.
His employment contract with HAM means that French law applies or impact upon, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
to his terms and conditions of employment as Divisional Director France.
Jean-Philippe Mouton entered into a separate English law letter of Peter Cole David Atkins Timon Drakesmith appointment, which governs his directorship of the Company.
Jean-Philippe Mouton also holds French corporate offices, including Chairman and Unique General Director of Hammerson France SAS and General Manager of Hammerson SAS, to which he was appointed by written resolution Date of service contract 28 February 2002 11 January 2008 18 January 2011 of the board of Hammerson France SAS.
Expiry date Rolling service contracts with no fixed expiry date.
As at 1 January 2013, his aggregate global gross base salary in respect of his directorship of the Company, his role as Divisional Director France Notice period 12 months notice to the 12 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
and his French corporate offices is 400,000 per annum.
In addition, he is paid a supplementary pension benefit.
While, of necessity, to comply Executive Director and six with French law, his termination provisions are more complex than the UK based Executive Directors and split between three distinct parts as months notice from the summarised below, the overall financial implications, before the impact of any collective bargaining agreements, are very similar and in Executive Director.
aggregate the outcome would broadly equate to one times his global base salary.
Jean-Philippe Mouton Base salary fee Base salary, subject to annual review save where the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
Date of service agreement and French employment: 25 March 2013. appointments Incentive plans Participation in the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP.
French corporate offices: 9 February 2014 The rules of the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP that apply on cessation of employment are set out in the Payment for Loss of Office section of this Policy.
In addition, Timon Drakesmiths service Expiry date Rolling service contract French employment with no fixed expiry date.
agreement provides that he will be treated as a good leaver in respect of the bonus arrangements in the event of a successful claim for constructive dismissal.
Notice period Three months notice both notice to and from the Executive.
Entitled to a Pension Choice of Base salary fee French employment: base salary.
Entitled to have benefits of the Scheme maintained or, on three UK directorship: basic annual fee, subject to annual review.
months notice, to be provided with alternative arrangements French corporate offices: basic annual fee.
which are actuarially no worse.
Pension contributions Eligibility to benefit from the statutory retirement regimes in force from time to time in France, and the benefits collective supplementary defined contributions retirement plan, which was put in place at HAM level Personal accident and life insurance.
subject to the annual statutory limits on contributions.
Entitlement to receive an annual salary supplement of 80,000 per annum in lieu of any other Car Each Executive Director receives a car allowance.
Contractual Insurance Insurance benefits are provided under a French collective scheme applicable to all employees of HAM.
benefits Termination Notice Entitled to 12 months base pay and contractual benefits.
payments Payment in lieu Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by paying a Employment can be terminated Sick pay Entitlement to receive the minimum benefits set out in the collective bargaining agreement currently of notice lump sum PILON comprising base salary, contractual benefits and a with immediate effect by 90% of his global base salary, contractual remuneration and benefits less statutory sick pay for a PILON bonus based on the Executive Directors average bonus over the paying a PILON comprising duration determined by the length of his continuity of service.
Thereafter any global base salary, 1 previous three years but pro-rated to reflect the part of the bonus base salary, pension, medical contractural remuneration and benefits are payable under the health insurance prvoyance scheme.
Termination Notice French employment: entitlement to three months fixed and variable remuneration.
payments termination for UK directorship: entitlement to three months fees.
The Company has discretion to gross misconduct.
French corporate offices: no notice.
Severance Entitlement to a severance payment equal to 25% of average global base salary and contractual pay on a phased basis, subject payment remuneration over the 12 months preceding termination multiplied by years of service capped at to mitigation.
six months if terminated on grounds of redundancy and if in excess of the legal minimum Liquidated Entitlement to liquidated damages calculated by reference to PILON if the Company terminates the termination payment.
damages employment in breach of the service agreement or if, within 12 months after a change of control, the Restrictive Entitlement to 30% of global base salary for the duration of the 12 month non-competition covenant Change of Company terminates the employment or the Executive Director terminates the employment because of covenants to the extent such covenant is enforced.
Control a fundamental breach by the Company.
Notes Liquidated damages are subject to deductions for new earnings.
As a senior executive, Jean-Philippe Mouton may also be entitled to receive enhanced benefits under the prvoyance, which applies on a mandatory basis to executive level Notes employees pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement.
com 179 82 82 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 83 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Notice periods and contractual rights The notice periods and contractual rights on termination of each of the Executive Directors, and the key terms that will apply under service agreements for new recruits, are set out in the section on Service Agreements.
Annual bonus and long-term incentives The following table describes the provisions which apply to leavers and the discretions available under the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP.
Further detail as to the potential exercise of discretion by the Committee is set out below the table.
Arrangements Leaver provisions AIP Under the rules of the AIP, where prior to the end of the performance period an Executive Director gives or receives notice, or ceases to be employed by the Group, due to death, ill-health, injury or disability, then the Executive Director remains entitled to a bonus, subject to the performance conditions.
Any bonus payable will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Where the date of cessation or notice is after the end of the performance period but prior to payment, the Executive Director will remain entitled to payment if the cessation is for any of the reasons above, or in addition if the cessation is due to retirement, redundancy or the sale of the company or business for which he works.
Where the cessation or notice does not fall within the above provisions, the bonus shall not be payable, unless the Committee determines otherwise which it may do at its discretion.
Payment will be on the normal payment date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate payment.
DBSS deferred share Share awards, which represent deferrals of previously earned bonus, lapse on the Executive Director resigning element of AIP or giving notice of resignation, provided that the Committee may exercise its discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
Share awards will also lapse on the Executive Director being dismissed for cause.
In any other case the share award will continue and will vest in full on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate vesting.
LTIP An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the Group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works will be a good leaver.
Where the cessation is on any other grounds, awards will lapse, provided that the Committee has a discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
Awards held by good leavers will continue and will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate vesting.
Awards will remain subject to the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
In exercising discretion in respect of the annual bonus arrangements or under the LTIP, the Committee will take into account all factors it determines to be appropriate at the relevant time including, but not limited to the duration of the Executive Directors service and its assessment of the contribution towards to the success of the Company during that period: whether the Executive Director has worked any notice period or whether a PILON payment is being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties and continuity in the business operations of the Company and the need to compromise any claims which the Executive Director may have.
In exercising any discretion the members of the Committee will take account of their duties as Directors.
No discretion will be exercisable to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver where he is dismissed summarily for cause or following a formal disciplinary process.
In respect of the Companys HMRC-approved, all-employee share plans, the Sharesave and the SIP, and the profit share plan for employees of Hammerson France, the Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as all other participants.
180 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 84 84 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED Other PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE If the Company terminates an Executive Directors employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a redundancy payment to the Notice periods and contractual rights Executive Director in line with his service agreement, any applicable collective bargaining agreement and under statute, and reserves the right to The notice periods and contractual rights on termination of each of the Executive Directors, and the key terms that will apply under service adjust for unfair dismissal.
agreements for new recruits, are set out in the section on Service Agreements.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution towards the Executive Directors legal fees for entering Annual bonus and long-term incentives into a statutory settlement agreement and may pay a contribution of up to 50,000, plus VAT, towards fees for outplacement services as part of The following table describes the provisions which apply to leavers and the discretions available under the annual bonus arrangements and the a negotiated settlement.
Payment to a departing Executive Director may be made in respect of accrued benefit and untaken holiday.
Arrangements Leaver provisions In connection with an Executive Director ceasing employment, the Company may, if the Committee believes it necessary and in the best interests AIP Under the rules of the AIP, where prior to the end of the performance period an Executive Director gives or of the Company, enter into appropriate new contractual arrangements with the departing Executive Director including but not limited to receives notice, or ceases to be employed by the Group, due to death, ill-health, injury or disability, then the settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements on such terms as it considers appropriate.
In such case, the Executive Director remains entitled to a bonus, subject to the performance conditions.
Any bonus payable will, Company will make appropriate disclosures of such terms.
unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Where the date of cessation or notice is after the end of the performance period but prior to payment, the A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Executive Director on termination of office.
Executive Director will remain entitled to payment if the cessation is for any of the reasons above, or in addition Change of control if the cessation is due to retirement, redundancy or the sale of the company or business for which he works.
On a corporate action affecting the Company, the rules of the AIP, DBSS and the LTIP will apply.
In summary, on a change of control of the Where the cessation or notice does not fall within the above provisions, the bonus shall not be payable, unless Company awards under the LTIP will vest, subject to the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time the Committee determines otherwise which it may do at its discretion.
Payment will be on the normal payment pro-rated.
Bonuses may be awarded under the AIP, based on performance to the date of the change of control and, unless the Committee date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate payment.
determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Awards under the DBSS, which represented deferrals of previously earned bonus, will vest in full.
Under the LTIP, the Committee may also determine that a demerger or similar event shall constitute a corporate action.
On a variation of share capital DBSS deferred share Share awards, which represent deferrals of previously earned bonus, lapse on the Executive Director resigning or similar event, the Committee may make such adjustment to awards under the LTIP and DBSS as the Committee considers appropriate.
element of AIP or giving notice of resignation, provided that the Committee may exercise its discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
EMPLOYEE PAY AND CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP In any other case the share award will continue and will vest in full on the normal vesting date, unless the Employee remuneration packages Committee decides to accelerate vesting.
Remuneration packages for all Company employees may comprise both fixed and variable elements.
The more senior the individual, the greater LTIP An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the Group by reason of death, retirement, their general opportunity to impact directly upon Company performance, and therefore the remuneration packages of senior managers and ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works will be a Executive Directors have a greater emphasis on variable pay than those of more junior employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the full range of Company benefits offered to employees.
In addition, they are eligible for certain Where the cessation is on any other grounds, awards will lapse, provided that the Committee has a discretion remuneration to which other employees are not eligible.
Executive Directors may opt to receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension, which is to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
not available to other employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an LTIP, whereas senior managers across the Group participate Awards held by good leavers will continue and will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee in other share and incentive plans.
Eligible employees, including Executive Directors, may participate in the relevant all-employee share plans decides to accelerate vesting.
namely UK plans for employees in the UK and French plans for employees in France.
Awards will remain subject to the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, Considerations in setting Executive Director remuneration be time pro-rated.
When setting Executive Director remuneration, the Committee takes into account Group-wide pay and employment conditions, along with market and commercial factors.
In exercising discretion in respect of the annual bonus arrangements or under the LTIP, the Committee will take into account all factors it determines to be appropriate at the relevant time including, but not limited to the duration of the Executive Directors service and its assessment The Company strives to pay competitively and to ensure its reward structures recognise superior performance.
The Company therefore of the contribution towards to the success of the Company during that period: whether the Executive Director has worked any notice period or undertakes external benchmarking and internal moderation to ensure that, in its view, at all levels the Companys remuneration approach whether a PILON payment is being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties and continuity in the business operations of the reflects the appropriate market rate position.
When determining base salary increases for Executive Directors, the Committee reviews the Company and the need to compromise any claims which the Executive Director may have.
In exercising any discretion the members of the average Group-wide increase, paying particular attention to the senior manager population.
Committee will take account of their duties as Directors.
The Committee reviews performance against the AIPs performance measures.
Personal performance rating impacts bonus calculations for all No discretion will be exercisable to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver where he is dismissed summarily for cause or following a formal employees and these ratings are calibrated internally to ensure consistency.
Executive Director performance ratings are calibrated annually by the disciplinary process.
Having reviewed both Company and personal performance, and considering payments being made to shareholders, the Committee makes a judgement as to what level of bonus payment, if any, is reasonable.
The Committee retains discretion to review bonus payments In respect of the Companys HMRC-approved, all-employee share plans, the Sharesave and the SIP, and the profit share plan for employees of upwards as well as downwards subject to the over-riding limits.
Hammerson France, the Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as all other participants.
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Policy or the implementation thereof.
com 181 84 84 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com 85 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Policy as relates to Non-Executive Directors Element Approach to determining element of fees and operation Fees The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee and those of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
Fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account independent advice and the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors.
Aggregate total fees payable annually to all Non-Executive Directors is subject to the limit as stated in the Companys Articles of Association from time to time.
The Committee reserves the right to provide additional fees within the stated limit including for membership of any additional committee the Board may establish.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully listed companies which the Committee in the case of the Chairman and the Board in respect of the Non-Executive Directors consider to be of equivalent size and complexity but are not set by reference to a prescribed benchmark.
Fees are paid monthly in cash in arrears and are not pensionable.
Additional fees The Chairman does not receive any additional fee in respect of membership of any of the Committees.
Other Non-Executive Directors may receive additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
There is also an additional fee for the Senior Independent Director.
The level of additional fees is set to reflect the responsibilities of the role.
Other benefits There are no other benefits currently available to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the Company does not consider that reimbursing travel and accommodation expense including to the Companys London office is a benefit in the normal sense, should any assessment to tax be made on such reimbursement, the Company reserves the ability to settle such liability on behalf of the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or participation in the Companys share plans.
While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal sense, Non-Executive Directors can participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member, whether paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Non-Executive Director on termination of office.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters of appointment, which are available for inspection on request.
The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Chairman and the Executive Directors every three years.
Appointments of Non-Executive Directors are for a term of three years, subject to the right of either party to terminate the appointment on not less than three months notice or immediately should a conflict of interest arise.
If any Non-Executive Director is not re-elected at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the appointment will cease automatically.
On termination of an appointment, a Non-Executive Director is only entitled to such fees as may have accrued to the date of termination, together with the reimbursement in the normal way of any expenses properly incurred prior to that date.
The dates of the appointments of the Non-Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 are set out below.
Date of original appointment to Board Commencement date of current term Unexpired term as at April 2014 Gwyn Burr 21 May 2012 21 May 2012 1 year, 1 month Terry Duddy 3 December 2009 3 December 2012 1 year, 8 months Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 1 May 2013 2 years, 1 month 1 Judy Gibbons 1 May 2011 1 May 2011 1 month 2 John Hirst 1 March 2004 1 May 2013 Retiring at the end of 2014 AGM David Tyler 12 January 2013 12 January 2013 1 year, 10 months Anthony Watson 1 February 2006 1 February 2012 10 months Notes 1.
Judy Gibbons appointment has been extended for three years with effect from 1 May 2014.
John Hirsts appointment was renewed for a further period to expire at the end of the 2014 AGM.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company welcomes dialogue with its significant shareholders and seeks their views when major changes are being made to remuneration policy.
Recently, following feedback from representatives of shareholders, the accumulation period for dividends on shares held in the LTIP and DBSS schemes was shortened to cover only the period from the date of grant of the award to vesting for awards from 2014 onwards.
182 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 86 86 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013
