CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT MATCHING REWARD TO PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 COMMITTEE December 2014.
This is my first year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee MEMBERS Committee, having succeeded Anthony Watson.
I would like to thank Anthony for chairing the Committee for a number of years, and for the assistance and support he Gwyn Burr Chairman has given me in 2014.
Terry Duddy At our AGM in 2014, our remuneration policy Policy was approved.
No changes are Judy Gibbons being made to that Policy.
David Tyler As you will have read earlier in this Annual Report, this was another successful year for the Anthony Watson Company.
Adjusted earnings per share grew to 23.9 pence: like-for-like NRI increased by 2.1% and the cost: income ratio reduced to 23.4%.
Using estimated numbers for total property return TPR, the outcome of financial and personal objective performance measures resulted in an average of 65% of maximum bonus opportunity for 2014.
Our TPR relative to an appropriate peer group is a component of both annual bonus AIP and long term incentives LTIP.
For 2014, we changed the indices for AIP.
These indices are published See pages 91 and 92 for 2015 implementation by IPD each April and so, for 2014 and in future, the TPR component of AIP reported in the and updated scenarios.
Annual Report will be estimated.
No bonus payments for TPR are made until the actual index data becomes available.
We will report the actual outturn on this measure, and the bonus payment, in our 2015 Annual Report.
See page 94, table 81 for Remuneration Committee In April, the Committee was disappointed when, despite good performance relative to attendance in 2014. our peer group, the 2011 LTIP awards did not vest to any material extent, contributing to an overall reduction in Executive Director total remuneration of 16%.
This was largely a result of the continued comparison with office portfolios, which is now inappropriate See page 170 for the remuneration policy.
given the change of focus of the Company in late 2012 to retail only.
The Committee will decide at its April 2015 meeting whether the TPR element of the 2012 LTIP awards should be compared solely against our retail property peer group.
The policy of granting LTIP awards to each Executive Director remains unchanged.
However, Executive Directors continue to set an example given on-going cost control measures, and have requested that 2015 LTIP awards should again be at less than the agreed norm of 200% of salary, and grants will be made at a reduced level of 150% of salary.
There are also no planned increases in base salaries for Executive Directors in 2015.
Following member consultation, the Companys defined benefit pension scheme Scheme was closed to future accruals for all participating employees during the year.
David Atkins and Peter Cole ceased to accrue further benefits within the Scheme and became eligible for salary supplements instead.
In December, the Company received a PWC Building Public Trust Award for the best executive remuneration report within the FTSE 100.
A substantial amount of effort goes into presenting shareholders with a clear and comprehensive remuneration report, and I am pleased that this work has received public recognition.
Gwyn Burr Chairman of the Remuneration Committee www.
