OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committees key role is to determine the reward strategy for the Executive Directors.
I chair the Committee and my fellow Committee members are Christopher Fisher, Martin Moore and Mark Robertshaw.
During 2015, the Committee will consider the recent Committee Chairmans Introduction changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect The Committee determines the reward strategy for of malus and clawback provisions in variable remuneration Executive Directors and in doing so balances appropriate schemes.
The rules of the Bonus for Directors and reward with the success of the business and the creation of members of the Leadership Team require a proportion long-term shareholder value.
of their Bonus payment to be deferred for three years in The Remuneration Policy is founded upon total property the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The DSBP rules return TPR and total shareholder return TSR, with include a malus provision to enable the Committee to long and short-term performance targets being focused withhold payments, even for executives who have left the on the drivers of these two measures.
I was pleased Company, in exceptional circumstances or where there that we received over 98 per cent of votes in favour has been misconduct or misstatement.
For the LTIP, the of the Remuneration Policy when it was approved by Committee has discretion to adjust awards downwards shareholders at the AGM last year.
The principles of our at vesting if it is not satisfied that the outcome is a fair Remuneration Policy have not changed and we have reflection of underlying performance, or in the event of operated exactly in line with it during the year.
An extract excessive risk taking or misstatement.
of the Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 94 to 98.
Looking ahead to 2015, the Executive Directors salaries As explained in the Strategic Review, during 2014 the will be increased in April by three per cent see page Company made further progress with its strategic priorities 84.
There will be no changes to the Bonus scheme delivering attractive, sustainable long-term returns for or the performance targets and awards will be made shareholders: the quality of the portfolio continues to be in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
The LTIP improved: there has been an improvement in operating awards will be made in April, again in accordance with the metrics: LTV has been reduced significantly: the share Remuneration Policy.
price has increased by 10.9 per cent over the year: and the We value our engagement with shareholders and dividend has been raised.
Against this performance, the appreciate their support.
As Senior Independent Director Bonus payments to the Directors will be 66.7 per cent of and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I their maximum award.
am committed to ensuring an open dialogue with I am pleased to report that our TSR over the last three our shareholders.
If you have any questions about years has exceeded 95 per cent which has resulted in a remuneration generally or the contents of this Report payout under this performance condition for the 2012 please contact me at companysecretariat@segro.
Transitionary LTIP award of over 85 per cent.
This clearly demonstrates the alignment of Directors remuneration with shareholders interests.
BARONESS FORD Chairman of the Remuneration Committee During the year, the key activities for the Committee were: articulation of our Remuneration Policy: approval of the annual salary increases, Bonus payments and LTIP awards: reviewing shareholder feedback following the AGM and emerging trends in corporate governance: and reviewing the conclusions of the Committee evaluation.
