58 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Dear Shareholder Reflections on the year DIRECTORS This is my second report to shareholders as Chairman Following the extensive consultation on our revised of the Committee, since I took over in October 2012. arrangements for Executive Directors undertaken in REMUNERATION Last year, in order to demonstrate our support for the 2012, we have had a relatively settled year in terms Governments proposals on the new requirements of the plans in place.
We have seen high levels of CHAIRMAN OF THE for the reporting of executive pay, we took steps to activity across all areas of the portfolio, particularly adopt many of the draft regulations early.
Not only in London where our decision to focus on early cycle REMUNERATION did we receive a vote of over 98% in favour of our development has continued to bear fruit.
There has report from shareholders, but, more generally, been a high degree of change in the Retail business COMMITTEES feedback on the format of the report was excellent, where we have faced up to difficult decisions to sell reflecting our efforts to produce a simpler and more assets which we do not believe are set to thrive in a ANNUAL STATEMENT transparent view of our arrangements.
therefore had to make far fewer major changes this Our performance against the Annual Bonus year now that the regulations have become law, and measures can be summarised as follows: we hope that the new report is again well received.
It has been an extremely strong performance in Revenue Profit terms, where the absolute growth, Overall approach to Remuneration as well as performance against budget, drives the Our overall approach to Remuneration is driven creation of the bonus pool.
This has been partly by our objective of generating returns for our driven by the later than planned sale of some shareholders that are higher than those received by assets, but also by a relentless focus on both others who invest in our peer group or the underlying investment and development lettings, and a property market.
We acknowledge that attracting tight control of both recoverable and nonand retaining the right people is the key to our success, recoverable costs and therefore it is critical that our reward packages: Our measure of Total Property Return versus the Are simple, transparent and demonstrably aligned market using the IPD quarterly index weighted to with the interest of shareholders the sectors the Group is invested in has been a Support the delivery of the Groups key much tougher challenge, due to the outstanding performance targets over the short, medium and performance of the index in central London small longer term.
This means having short-term plans lot sizes, which make up the majority of this part of e. g. annual bonus which reward specific and the benchmark.
As Land Securities is required to measurable KPIs e. g. development lettings, outperform the benchmark before any annual planning permissions, but which are also bonus is due, no payment has been made against effectively linked to sustained longer-term this element performance, reflected in Total Property Return The team delivered a strong performance against and returns to shareholders the key business targets agreed at the beginning Ensure that a long-term focus is maintained of the year, with a notable contribution from through the deferral of a significant part of the the London team to the development lettings annual bonus and the requirement for Executive performance, and the achievement of all the Directors to maintain significant personal targeted planning permissions across both investments in the Companys shares portfolios.
The only significant under-achievement Are focused on relative, rather than absolute was in planned disposals, where a delay in the sale measures, so that even in a year when profits are of one asset meant that no bonus was awarded for high, the outturns of our plans may be low if our this element, as all three targeted assets had to be competitors have performed more strongly.
Equally, sold above a target price to trigger a payment.
Committee members in very tough market conditions, the outturns for In total, this performance has created bonus outturns variable pay could be higher when outperformance Simon Palley Chairman and which are lower than last year 68.5% of the has been significant, even if absolute returns are maximum Group element, versus 86% in 2013, Independent Non-executive lower.
The structure should ensure that superior but still reflect some notable achievements in an rewards are only paid for exceptional performance Director ever-changing marketplace.
Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman of the Board Chris Bartram Independent Non-executive Director David Rough Independent Non-executive Director stepped down from the Committee on 31 May 2013 Edward Bonham Carter Independent Non-executive Director joined the Committee on 10 March 2014 strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 59 Turning to the Long-term incentive plan Looking forward As the market in which we operate changes, whether Against a very tough IPD index, as described above, as a cyclical or more fundamental shift, it is very we matched the Total Property Return over the important that our remuneration frameworks three year performance period to March 2014, continue to drive the right focus of effort and and therefore 12.5% of this portion of the behaviour from the management team.
As I awards vested referenced earlier, 2015 will be the third anniversary The Total Shareholder Return performance, of our current arrangements, and we therefore which drives the other 50%, has been excellent expect to make some adjustments to our plans over over the three year period at 4.1% per annum the course of the year.
This may include reviewing outperformance versus the comparator group our measures of performance, as well as the This has all added up to the 2011 awards vesting at a mechanics of how our plans operate.
I will provide total of 62.5% of the maximum, versus 76% for the shareholders with a full update on this work next 2010 awards.
year, and I am sure that I will be consulting with some of you as our plans emerge.
Other key activities for the Committee during the year Simon Palley In a relatively stable year for the remuneration Chairman, Remuneration Committee arrangements, the Committee has been involved in a number of other key pieces of work.
It has overseen the arrangements for the departure of Richard Akers, who stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2014.
Mr Akers has only been rewarded for the period in which he served as a Director, and although the committee took the decision to apply some good leaver provisions, his unvested share awards either lapsed in the case of the 2013 award or were pro-rated to reflect the portion of each performance period to which he actively contributed.
Mr Akers was deemed to have earned his deferred bonus shares, as these were awarded in respect of performance periods that had already passed.
However, no severance payment, or payment in lieu of notice, was awarded.
The Committee has also overseen the remuneration arrangements for the new Executive Committee.
Whilst they do not serve on the main Board, the two new Managing Directors, whose appointments formally date from 1 April 2014, are rewarded under a bespoke set of arrangements which take them much closer to those for Executive Directors, including the use of Group, rather than Business Unit performance measures, and an element of deferral into shares of their annual bonuses.
Finally, the Executive team has led a review of the fees for Non-executive Directors, which had not increased for four years five for the Chairman.
Details of the review are covered in the report.
The role of the Remuneration Committee Overseeing the operation of all incentive schemes DIRECTORS in setting Policy and awards and determining whether performance The Committee is responsible for: criteria have been met.
REMUNERATION Engaging with shareholders with regard to pay and The Committees Terms of Reference are available at ensuring their views are taken into account when www.
pOLICy REpORT setting policy Although the Committee actively seeks out Determining the overall strategy and policy for the views of shareholders when setting policy, the 1.
Introduction to the policy report the remuneration of Executive Directors and Company does not formally consult with employees This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets Senior Managers on executive remuneration.
However, when setting out the remuneration policy for the Company and the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Ensuring the policy is aligned with, and assists in, has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Committee takes into account the overall approach the delivery of the Companys strategy Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts to reward for, and the pay and employment Ensuring the outturn of performance metrics and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The conditions of, other employees in the Group.
reflects the performance of the business policy has been developed taking into account the This is referred to in section 7.
Determining the individual remuneration principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code No Director is involved in any decision relating packages for Executive Directors and our most 2012 and the views of our major shareholders.
to his or her own remuneration.
As set out in Senior Managers The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder the Corporate Governance section of this report, vote at the 2014 AGM and the policy will take formal Overseeing any significant changes to employee a review of the Committees performance is effect from the date of approval.
It is intended that remuneration across the Group regularly undertaken as part of the Board the policy will be in force for a period of three years.
Approving the design of and targets for performance-related incentive schemes 3.
Remuneration policy 3.1 We have summarised the individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to our Executive Directors in the following table: Remuneration policy Unaudited Table 32 Changes to Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Policy in the year Base salary To aid the Reviewed annually, with effect from 1 June.
For 2013 14, the annual base salaries of The Committee has the None recruitment, retention Review reflects: discretion to determine the Executive Directors were 693,600 and motivation of CEO, 469,200 CFO and 418,000 the precise amount of Increases throughout the rest of the business high performing base salary within the Executive Director.
Market benchmarking exercise undertaken people policy, including The maximum annual salary increase will periodically to ensure salaries are set at approving the salary for a To reflect their not normally exceed the average increase around the median of the market competitive newly appointed Director experience and across the rest of the workforce.
Larger level for people in comparable roles with see section 5.3.
It will importance to increases will be exceptional, and made in similar levels of experience, performance also determine whether the business.
specific circumstances: and contribution there are specific reasons Increase in responsibilities or scope of In years where no benchmarking exercise is to award increases the role undertaken, increases likely to be aligned greater than those for the with the general increase for the wider To apply salary progression for a newly general workforce.
workforce or to reflect changes in appointed Director see policy described responsibility in section 5.3 Changes in the scope of a Directors role may Where the Directors salary has fallen also require a further adjustment to salary.
significantly below the market positioning.
Benefits To provide protection Directors receive a combination of: The value of benefits may vary from year to The Policy will always None and market year depending on the cost to the apply as stated, A company car allowance competitive benefits Company.
unless there are specific Private medical insurance to aid recruitment individual circumstances Life assurance and retention of high why it should not.
Ill health income protection quality executives.
Holiday and sick pay Professional advice in connection with their directorship Occasional gifts, for example appropriate long service or leaving gifts.
Pension To help recruit and Participation into a money purchase pension Directors receive a pension contribution or The Policy will apply None retain high performing scheme or cash equivalent.
executives Reward continued contribution to the business by enabling Executive Directors to build long-term savings.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 61 Remuneration policy continued Table 32 Changes to Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Policy in the year Annual bonus To incentivise the All measures and targets are reviewed and Minimum bonus is nil The Committee has the None delivery of stretching, set by the Board at the beginning of the year discretion to approve the Maximum bonus potential of 150% near-term business and payments are determined by the specific threshold and stretch of salary.
targets and personal Committee after the year end, based on targets against each of the performance objectives performance against the targets set.
measures for a specific year To reward near-term The specific measures and targets will be The outturns of the Group set each year, but will always include a outperformance element of the bonus plan relative to industry measure of Total Property Return 30% are calculated formulaically weighting in 2013 14 versus that of the benchmarks and therefore the Committee market, as the most visible indication of has no discretion to adjust Specific measures and underlying performance these, unless there is a targets, for example specific reason for adjusting The other measures and targets will successful planning reflect the most critical business them down see section 3.3 applications and asset performance indicators for the year, and management initiatives, The Committee does have will be both specific and measurable.
will provide future the discretion to award Growth in Revenue Profit will always opportunity for the appropriate bonus payments feature as a key measure of performance business and will increase under the individual element the value of our property A small proportion no more than 20% of maximum 20% of base in the short term base salary of a Directors bonus is based salary to reflect the on the achievement of measurable performance and contribution Other KPIs, such as individual performance objectives of an individual Director.
development lettings targets, are likely to The structure of the plan incentivises Within the Policy, the outperformance by ensuring that the committee will retain have a significant impact on long-term threshold targets are stretching, and that flexibility including: for relative measures nothing is paid out capital growth and When to make awards and revenue profit for merely matching the performance of payments the competitor group performance How to determine the size of Bonuses up to 50% of salary are paid The ability to recognise an award, a payment, or as cash performance through when and how much of an variable remuneration Any amounts in excess of 50% are award should be payable enables the Group to deferred into shares for one year.
Who receives an award or control its cost base Any amounts in excess of 100% are payment flexibly and react to deferred into shares for two years Whether a departing events and market Deferred shares are potentially forfeitable Director should receive a circumstances if the executive leaves prior to the share bonus and whether and what Deferral of a portion of release date proportion of awards should annual bonuses into be paid at the time of leaving Not pensionable shares encourages a or at a subsequent date Clawback provisions apply where any longer-term focus Whether a departing Director overpayment was made as a result of the aligned to shareholders should be treated as a good misstatement of the Companys results or and discourages or bad leaver in respect of a performance condition which caused excessive risk taking.
deferred bonus shares the overpayment.
How to deal with a change of control or any other corporate event which may require adjustments to awards.
Long-term share incentive plans Incentivises value The Committee may make an annual Long-term incentive plan: The Committee has the None creation over the long award of shares under the long-term discretion to determine Normal and current award policy term in excess of that incentive plan whether an exceptional limit 150% of salary created by general award of 200% of salary Additional awards are available on the Limit in exceptional circumstances increases in the value of is appropriate basis of investment by Executive Directors e. g. recruitment 200% of salary.
property or shares in in the Companys shares under the The outturns of the Matching Performance Share Plan: property companies Matching Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan are Up to 150% of salary, subject Rewards execution of calculated formulaically and Vesting under both Plans is on the same to pledging sufficient of their our strategy and the therefore the Committee has basis and determined by the Groups own shares long-term no discretion to adjust these, achievements against stretching The pledged shares would then be outperformance of our unless there is a specific performance targets over a fixed three matched on a two for one basis competitors reason for adjusting them year period and continued employment To obtain a maximum award, a down see section 3.3.
Encourages long-term There is no re-testing Director would be required to pledge investment by Directors The Committee reviews the measures, shares with a value of 75% of salary in the Companys shares their relative weightings and targets prior calculated on a pre-tax basis to each award.
The pledge may include shares within their minimum shareholding requirement, but only for the first five years of their appointment.
62 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Remuneration policy continued Table 32 Changes to Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Policy in the year Long-term share incentive plans continued Aligns the long-term The measures selected are relative, Once the five year period has Within the Policy, the interests of Directors and directly aligned to the interests of elapsed, shares pledged must be committee will retain and shareholders shareholders.
50% of the weighting is over and above the shareholding flexibility including: given to a measure of Total Property requirement as executives should Promotes retention.
When to make awards and Return versus competitors over a three have built up sufficient equity payments year period, and 50% to Total Shareholder How to determine the size Return versus our listed comparator group of an award, a payment, or over the same three year period when and how much of an No awards vest for performance below award should vest that of the comparator group, only a small Who receives an award proportion 27.5% in the performance or payment period ending March 2014 will vest for Whether a Director is treated matching the performance of the Group, as a good or bad leaver for and significant outperformance is required incentive plan purposes and for the maximum award to vest whether and what Awards will be satisfied by either newly proportion of awards vest at issued shares or shares purchased in the the time of leaving or at a market and any use of newly issued shares subsequent vesting date will be subject to the dilution limits How to deal with a change of contained in the scheme rules control or any other corporate Clawback provisions apply where any event which may require overpayment was made as a result of the adjustments to awards.
misstatement of the Companys results or a performance condition which caused the overpayment.
Savings related share option scheme To encourage all All employees, including Executive See Operation column.
The Policy will apply as stated.
The employees to make a Directors, are entitled to contribute up to contribution long-term investment 500 per month, for between three and ceiling for in the Companys shares, five years awards made in a tax efficient way.
after 6 April At the end of the period, participants may 2014 has use the monies to purchase shares at a been raised discount of 20% to the market price at the from 250 time they joined the scheme.
Alternatively, to 500 in they may ask for their contributions to line with be returned government The scheme offers tax advantages in that policy.
the gain is free of income tax.
Share ownership To provide close Clear Shareholding Guidelines are in place.
n a The Policy will apply as stated.
None alignment between the Currently these are: longer-term interests Executive Directors are required to own of Directors and shares with a value set at a percentage of shareholders in terms of base salary: the Companys growth Chief Executive 200% of salary and performance.
Other Executive Directors 150% of salary They are required to achieve these levels within five years of appointment in order to qualify for future long-term incentive awards.
Deferred or unvested share awards not subject to performance conditions may count towards the guideline, but once this has been achieved, additional shares are required to be held in order to qualify for awards under the Matching Share Plan.
3.2 Previous arrangements 3.3 Discretion where the outcomes for Directors are clearly For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy The Committee operates within the policy at all misaligned with the outcomes for shareholders.
Report, authority is sought by the Company to honour times.
It will also operate the plans according to the Any specific circumstances which necessitate the use any commitments entered into with current or former rules of each respective plan and consistent with of discretion will always be explained clearly in the Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in normal market practice and the Listing Rules.
Within Annual Report on Remuneration.
Please see the previous remuneration reports.
Details of any the policy, it will retain the discretion to look at previous table for more detail on the discretion payments to former Directors will be set out in the performance in the round, including withholding, allowed for each element of the reward package.
Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
or deferring payments in certain circumstances strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 63 4.
Fixed and variable pay reward scenarios 4.1 Total opportunity at maximum and target levels Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration payable in the form of performance related pay.
The charts that follow illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for the coming year.
1 Percentages are of the maximum.
In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed and variable pay assumptions Unaudited Table 35 Fixed pay Consists of the latest base salary, benefits and pension allowances Pension allowance calculated at 25% of new base salary.
Outturn Base Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Robert Noel, Chief Executive 711 22 178 911 Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer 481 20 120 621 On-target award This is based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with expectations: Annual bonuses pay out at 60% of the maximum for performance in line with expectations Long-term incentive plan performance in line with expectations would see approximately 50% of the award vesting.
Vesting levels over the last ten years have broadly averaged 50% Assumes maximum pledge of shares for SMP.
Maximum award 100% of the annual bonus 100% vesting of long-term incentive awards Assumes maximum pledge of shares for SMP.
4.2 Payment schedule The following table illustrates in which financial years the various payments in the charts are actually made released to Executive Directors.
The table assumes that the annual bonus payment is equivalent to at least 100% of salary.
Payment schedule Unaudited Table 36 Financial year Base year Base year 1 Base year 2 Base year 3 Element of remuneration Base salary The annual bonus targets The second portion of the The final portion of the received are measured and the first annual bonus between 50% annual bonus more than Pension portion of the annual bonus and 100% salary is released 100% of salary is released Benefits.
up to 50% of salary is paid as shares.
Shares Long-term incentive plan LTIP and Matching Share shares granted Awards vest.
Matching shares pledged 64 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 5.
Directors service agreements and letters the relevant performance criteria with the balance of For the appointment of a new Chairman or Nonof appointment the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains discretion executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set 5.1 Service agreements to decide not to pro-rate if it is inappropriate to do in accordance with the approved remuneration Both of the Executive Directors have service so in particular circumstances.
For the avoidance of policy in force at that time.
agreements and these normally continue until the doubt, if the termination of employment is not for Shareholders will be informed of all payments Directors agreed retirement date or such other date one of the specified reasons, and the Committee to newly-appointed directors at the time of as the parties agree.
The Companys policy is that does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to appointment.
Executive Directors will be employed on a contract vest, a participants full awards lapse.
5.4 Chairman and Non-executive Director that can be terminated by the Company on giving 5.3 Policy on the remuneration of newly letters of appointment no more than one years notice, with the Executive appointed Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors do Director required to give one years notice The remuneration package for a new externallynot have service agreements with the Company.
appointed Executive Director would be set in Each of them has a letter of appointment which As stated in last years report Martin Greenslades accordance with the terms of the Companys sets out the terms of their appointment.
The service agreement was updated in May 2013 to bring approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment of a Non-executive Director can be it into line with investor guidelines on termination appointment.
The policy, as described, on base salary terminated, by either party, upon one months notice provisions by 2015.
His contractual entitlement to will apply, but the Committee has the flexibility to and the appointment of the Chairman on three be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of the set the salary of a new hire at a discount to the months notice.
Non-executive Directors are Companys share schemes, and to a pro-rated bonus, market level initially, with a series of planned appointed under letters of appointment which in the event of his dismissal, will be fully withdrawn increases implemented over the following few years provide for an initial term of service of three years.
Robert Noels service agreement to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject The dates of the current letters of appointment of contains no such contractual entitlement and is fully to individual performance in the role.
Only in very the Non-executive Directors are shown in the aligned with investor guidelines.
exceptional circumstances will the salary of a newly Annual Report on Remuneration.
The dates of the current service agreements of appointed Director exceed the market median The terms and conditions of appointment of the the Executive Directors are shown in the Annual benchmark for the role.
Non-executive Directors are available for inspection Report on Remuneration.
The annual bonus would operate in accordance at the Companys registered office.
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold with the terms of the approved policy, albeit with the external directorships subject to the approval of the opportunity pro-rated for the period of employment.
Board, and to retain fees from these roles.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the 5.2 Termination provisions appointment, it may be necessary to set different A Directors service agreement may be terminated performance measures and targets initially.
without notice and without further payment or The long-term incentive plan would also operate compensation, except for sums earned up to the date in accordance with the policy, but in exceptional of termination, on the occurrence of certain events circumstances, the Committee has the discretion to such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the make a grant of shares of up to 200% of salary to a termination taking into account the individuals new Executive Director.
performance and an individuals opportunity to In the case of an internal appointment, any mitigate losses are taken into account by the variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior Committee when determining amounts payable on role would be paid out according to its terms, adjusted termination.
Our normal policy is to stop or reduce as relevant to take into account the appointment.
compensatory payments to former Executive In addition, any other ongoing remuneration Directors when they receive remuneration from obligations existing prior to appointment would other employment during the compensation period.
continue, provided that they are put to shareholders The Company does not make any arrangements that for approval at the earliest opportunity.
guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on In addition to the elements of the package covered severance or early retirement.
by the Policy, the Committee may offer additional Any share-based entitlements granted under the cash and or share-based elements on a one-time Companys share plans will be determined on the basis or ongoing when it considers these to be in the basis of the relevant plan rules.
The default position best interests of the Company.
Any such payments is that any outstanding unvested awards lapse on would be based solely on remuneration lost when cessation of employment.
However, under the rules leaving the former employer and would reflect the of the long-term incentive plan, in certain prescribed delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, circumstances such as redundancy, disability, time horizons and whether performance conditions retirement, or other circumstances at the discretion are attached.
In exceptional circumstances, the of the Committee taking into account the individuals Committee may also consider it appropriate to grant performance and the reasons for their departure other types of awards, for example if a new recruit good leaver status can be applied.
For example, with unique and required skills had other commercial if an executives role has effectively been made opportunities that were foregone in joining the redundant, and there are no significant performance Company.
Such payments would take clear account issues, the Committee is likely to look favourably of any value forfeited in such circumstances.
on the granting of some good leaver provisions.
For external and internal appointments, the However, if an executive has resigned for a similar role Committee may agree that the Company will meet in a competitor organisation, then such provisions are certain relocation expenses, on a one time basis, extremely unlikely to apply.
Where good leaver as appropriate.
Where a Director is recruited from provisions in respect of share awards are deemed to overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits be appropriate, a participants awards should vest on that take account of market practice in their country a time pro-rata basis subject to the satisfaction of of residence.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Land Securities Annual Report 2014 65 6.
Non-executive Director remuneration policy Non-executive Director remuneration policy Unaudited Table 37 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Changes to Policy in the year Base fee To aid the recruitment, retention Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by The current fees for Non-executive None and motivation of high performing Directors are shown in the Annual the Board, having regard to independent advice and Non-executive Directors published surveys.
Report on Remuneration section 2 To reflect the time commitment Non-executive Director fees are typically given by Non-executive Directors reviewed annually but increased every to the business.
Any increases reflect relevant market data for Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size and complexity, and the time commitment required.
Additional fees To reflect the additional time Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by The opportunity depends on which, None commitment required from the Board, having regard to independent advice and if any, committee chairmanship roles Non-executive Directors in chairing published surveys.
are assumed by an individual Director various Board sub-committees.
over the course of their tenure.
Other incentives and benefits Non-executive Directors do not receive any other n a n a remuneration or benefits beyond the fees noted above with the exception of travel and hospitality costs associated with Board meetings.
Share ownership To provide close alignment The current share ownership guidelines are as follows: between the longer-term interests Non-executive Directors are required to own shares of Directors and shareholders in with a value of 100% of annual fees.
They are terms of the Companys growth required to achieve these levels within three years and performance.
Group wide remuneration 7.3 Executive Committee and Senior Leaders 7.4 Other employees 7.1 Base pay Following a reorganisation of the senior team, the Other employees are also entitled to participate in The average base salary increase awarded across population of Senior Managers below the Board falls the Companys annual bonus scheme.
For 2014 15, the workforce provides a key reference point when within two broad categories Executive Committee the maximum awards will range between 20% and determining levels of increase for the Executive members and Senior Leaders.
There are four 60% of salary, depending on job role.
In setting the pay budget for the wider members of the Executive Committee below Board All employees, other than Executive Directors, workforce, the Committee reviews data on pay level, including the two newly appointed Managing are also eligible to be considered for an award from settlements within the economy, the rate of Directors for London and Retail, the Group Human the discretionary bonus pool of 1m, with awards inflation and pay rates for equivalent roles in similar Resources Director, and the Group General Counsel typically normally made to no more than 10% of the companies.
Directors generally receive an increase and Company Secretary.
None of these executives Groups employees.
The awards are usually not more equivalent to the average, unless there has been a receives a salary or total remuneration package than 30% of base salary and are made on the basis of change in scope for the role, or there is a specific which is higher than those paid to the Executive an exceptional single achievement or outstanding market reason for a different award.
The structure of their remuneration all-round performance.
packages, including LTIPs, Matching Performance In addition, all employees are entitled to receive 7.2 Annual bonus Share Awards and bonuses, is broadly consistent private health insurance, life assurance, our savings The individual element of an employees bonus with that of Executive Directors, albeit at a lower related share option scheme and a season ticket loan, is determined on the basis of their individual quantum.
The bonuses of the Managing Directors all on the same basis as the Executive Directors.
performance, i. e. both the achievement of are based on group-wide performance metrics, objectives set at the beginning of the year, and their 8.
Shareholder engagement and a portion of bonus is deferred into shares.
demonstration of broader capabilities, including We maintain strong relationships with shareholders From 2014 15, Executive Committee members will Leadership capabilities for those in senior roles.
and shareholder bodies and have encouraged them typically have a total annual bonus potential of Inevitably, the scoring involves an element of to share their thoughts with us.
Although it has not 100125% of base salary based on targets set at the judgement.
For Executive Directors, the same been necessary to consult with shareholders in the beginning of the financial year.
The second category principles apply, but we expect to see a strong current year, as our plans have remained unchanged, of senior managers 19 in total are Senior Leaders correlation between individual performance and the Remuneration Committee spends time each normally heads of significant business functions.
the achievement of Company objectives.
Therefore, year considering new trends, shareholder feedback These leaders have an annual bonus potential of up it should not be possible for Executive Directors to and requirements.
We also gather the views of to 100% of base salary, depending on the role.
They achieve a maximum individual bonus in a year when shareholder bodies on a variety of matters, including may also receive LTIP Share Awards, albeit at lower the Company has performed badly in the context the structure of the Remuneration Report.
proportions of salary than Executive Directors.
We are very grateful for the time and assistance shareholders give us.
Dates of appointment for Directors DIRECTORS Unaudited Table 38 REMUNERATION Name Date of appointment Date of contract Executive Directors REpORT ANNUAL Robert Noel 1 January 2010 23 January 2012 REpORT ON Martin Greenslade 1 September 2005 9 May 2013 REMUNERATION Richard Akers stepped down 31 March 2014 17 May 2005 9 May 2013 Non-executive Directors Dame Alison Carnwath 1 September 2004 13 November 2008 The Annual Report on Remuneration David Rough steps down on 18 July 2014 2 April 2002 29 April 2004 describes how we intend to apply the policy Sir Stuart Rose stepped down 31 December 2013 21 May 2003 29 April 2004 for the year ahead from April 2014 to Kevin OByrne 1 April 2008 9 April 2008 March 2015 and how the policy has been Chris Bartram 1 August 2009 21 July 2009 applied for the financial year from 1 April Simon Palley 1 August 2010 29 July 2010 2013 to 31 March 2014, including all the payments made or accruing to Directors in Stacey Rauch 1 January 2012 26 November 2011 connection with the year.
Edward Bonham Carter 1 January 2014 1 November 2013 Cressida Hogg 1 January 2014 1 November 2013 During the course of the year, the Committee was engaged with a number of key matters, including: Ensuring a clear understanding of the new regulations on Executive Remuneration, and meeting the requirements in the reporting Overseeing the arrangements for the departure of Richard Akers Overseeing the remuneration arrangements for the expanded Executive Committee in the context of the review of the organisation and the broader leadership changes Determining salary increases for Executive Directors and Senior Managers, together with overall levels of salary increases across the Group Reviewing the outcomes for business unit and personal targets under the annual bonus scheme for Executive Directors and Senior Managers Reviewing the outcomes for achievement against the performance conditions for the Long-term Incentive and Matching Performance Share Plans Determining proposed share incentive and bonus awards to Executive Directors and Senior Managers Determining Directors compliance with the Companys Share Ownership Guidelines.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 67 2.
The application of the policy for the year ahead This section lays out how we intend to apply our Remuneration Policy over the course of the year commencing 1 April 2014.
2.1 Directors salaries Once again, the Committee has not undertaken a peer group benchmarking exercise this year for Executive Directors.
Instead, the Committee has awarded Executive Directors increases of 2.5%.
This is in line with the average increase received by employees as a whole, excluding promotions and exceptional increases.
Salary increases take effect from 1 June 2014.
Executive Directors Unaudited Table 39 Average % increase over From five years Current 1 June 2014 including Name 000 000 % increase 2014 15 1 Robert Noel 694 711 2.5 2.25 Martin Greenslade 469 481 2.5 2.65 1 Robert Noels average increase over two years, to reflect his tenure as CEO.
Non-executive Directors In September 2013, the Board took the decision to increase the fees for Non-executive Directors, as shown in the table below.
In reaching its decision, the Board took into account data from several published surveys, and insight on trends on Non-executive pay provided by our independent remuneration advisors.
We believe that these rates will enable us to continue to attract Non-executive Directors of the highest calibre, and recognise the significant time commitment given.
Non-executive Directors Unaudited Table 40 From 1 October Equivalent Previous 2013 annual % 1 NED fee 000 000 % increase increase Chairman 300 350 17 3.2 Base fee 60 67.5 12.5 3.0 Audit Committee Chair 17.5 17.5 0 0 Remuneration Committee Chair 12.5 12.5 0 0 Senior Independent Director 10 10 0 0 1 Calculated as an incremental increase, over five years for the Chairman, four years for NEDs.
2.2 Pensions and benefits Pensions and benefits arrangements will continue to operate as per the policy outlined in the previous section.
No signficant changes are anticipated to the monetary value of these benefits, apart from those that are linked to base salary levels, for example pension allowances.
2.3 Variable pay There will be no change to the operation of the Annual Bonus Scheme and long-term incentive plans for the current year.
The table overleaf details our choice of performance targets, which are designed to align individual rewards with the Groups long-term and short-term performance and relative shareholder returns.
We have shown both the measures and the specific targets that will apply for the long-term incentive plan, including the Share Matching Plan.
These apply for all three performance periods where the Financial Year 2014 15 forms part of the three year period i. e. in respect of the awards made in 2012 year 3, 2013 year 2 and 2014 year 1.
We have not included some of the specific business plan targets for the Annual Bonus Plan, as they are commercially sensitive, but we have laid out clearly the performance measures we will use.
Details of the targets for 2014 15 will be laid out in next years report when we explain the outturn of the Annual Bonus.
68 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 2.4 Performance targets for the coming year Performance targets for the coming year Unaudited Table 41 Metric Link to strategy and value for shareholders Performance measure Target Long-term incentive and share matching plans Total Shareholder Return Rewards our outperformance of the returns generated by Measured over a period of three financial Outperformance of the 50% of award.
our listed company peers years: index by 4% or more per annum.
Encourages efficient use of capital through good sector The Groups total shareholder return allocation and appropriate gearing TSR relative to an index weighted by market capitalisation based on a Based on a market capitalisation of 8.0bn, our target of comparator group comprising all of the 4% per annum outperformance over three years would property companies within the FTSE 350 generate approximately 1.0 bn of value for shareholders Real Estate Index except Land Securities over and above that they would have received had we performed in line with our comparator group of property 15% of the overall award vests for companies within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
matching the index, with 50% vesting where we outperform the index by 4% or more per annum.
No awards vest for below index performance Vesting is on a straight-line basis between matching the index and outperforming it by 4% per annum.
Ungeared Total Property Rewards sustained outperformance by our portfolio Measured over a period of three financial Outperformance of the Return 50% of award.
compared with the industrys commercial property years: index by 1% or more per benchmark weighted towards the sector mix of annum.
The Groups ungeared Total Property our portfolio Return TPR relative to the IPD weighted Focuses on increasing capital values and rental income indices that reflect the sector mix of the Groups investment portfolio Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net asset value, which is the measure with the strongest correlation 12.5% of the overall award vests for to share price matching the index with 50% vesting where we outperform the index 1% per On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 11.8bn, our annum.
No awards vest for below index target 1% per annum outperformance over three years performance generates approximately 360.0m of value beyond that which would have been received had the portfolio Vesting is on a straight-line basis between performed in line with the index matching the index and outperforming it by 1% per annum.
The benchmark sectors we have chosen are amongst the toughest to compete in as they are also amongst the most profitable, attracting some of the best investors in the sector.
Annual bonus Ungeared Total Property Rewards annual outperformance by our portfolio The Groups ungeared Total Property Outperformance of the Return 26.0% of award, or compared with the industrys commercial property Return TPR relative to the sector index by 2% for the year.
benchmark weighted IPD Quarterly Universe index Focuses on increasing capital values and rental income No payment is made for matching or performing below the index, and Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net asset payment is then on a straight-line basis value, which is the measure with the strongest correlation between matching and outperformance to share price of 2% for the year.
On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 11.8bn, the 2% outperformance targeted for one year would generate approximately 235.0m of return beyond the returns of commercial property within our sectors The benchmark sectors we have chosen are amongst the toughest to compete in as they are also amongst the most competitive and profitable.
Will be confirmed in Absolute growth in revenue Encourages above inflation growth in income profits, Once the Group has met a threshold profit c. 26.0% of award, or year on year, from a base set in 2010 target on Revenue Profit, a portion 5% 2015 Report.
of the over-achievement is used to Targets set so as not to encourage excessive risk taking generate the bonus pool for the Group.
Encourages sustainable dividend growth and cover over For the Executive Directors, this may the medium term mean that the maximum shown is Funds additional investment exceeded, as there is no upper cap on the Encourages asset management activity and the income overachievement.
However, there is a performance of assets, which is a very significant driver total cap on the Group element of of capital values.
Directors bonuses of 130% of base salary.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 69 Performance targets for the coming year continued Table 41 Metric Link to strategy and value for shareholders Performance measure Target Annual Bonus specific business targets Development lettings 20.8% A key driver of income and revenue profit in the future Specific threshold and stretch targets Will be confirmed in of award, or 31.2% of salary.
have been set for both the London and 2015 Report.
Proves the value of the development and drives capital Retail Business Units.
Planning permissions 6.9% Increases the value of our investment property Specific targets have been set for Will be confirmed in of award, or 10.4% of salary.
individual assets in both the London and 2015 Report.
Provides the ability to generate additional revenue profit Retail Business Units.
and capital growth in the longer term.
Employment strategy 3.5% A key way in which Land Securities can deliver on its A target has been set around securing 125 candidates from our of award, or 5.2% of salary.
commitment to the communities in which it operates, permanent employment for an increased London Programme into and create a sustainable future by building a skilled permanent employment, number of candidates on the London workforce.
training programme, and for expanding and expansion of the programme to suitable this programme into key developments in the Retail Portfolio.
Management of the Groups Increasing our flexibility within the secured lending pool.
A specific target has been set around the Will be confirmed in secured lending pool 3.5% balance of assets in the pool across both 2015 Report.
Individual targets for Ensures that each Director focuses on his individual A mix of short-term and long-term Will be confirmed in Executive Directors 13.3% contribution in the broadest sense, aligned with, but not individual goals set at the beginning of 2015 Report.
limited to, specific business targets the year.
Encourages a focus on personal development.
2.5 Savings Related Share Option Scheme We will again be offering all employees, including Executive Directors, the opportunity to make monthly contributions for a period of between three and seven years, at the end of which shares may be purchased at a discount to the market price.
In line with government policy, the contribution ceiling has been raised from 250 to 500 for any awards made after 6 April 2014.
2.6 Directors shares The shareholding guidelines in operation are shown in the Remuneration Policy table section 3.1.
Holding excludes deferred bonus shares.
Both Robert Noel and Martin Greenslade meet the guidelines for Executive Directors.
All Non-executive Directors in post on 31 March 2014 complied with the requirement with the exception that Edward Bonham Carter and Cressida Hogg held no shares when they formally joined the Board on 1 January 2014.
They have until 31 December 2016 to comply.
70 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 2.7 Outstanding share awards held by Directors The tables below illustrate those share awards made to Executive Directors that have not yet vested, or, in the case of awards made under historic share option schemes, have not yet been exercised.
It also shows those awards under both plans that vested or were exercised during the year.
See section 3.4 for the treatment of Richard Akers unvested share awards from 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Directors options over ordinary shares Audited Table 44 Granted during year Exercised lapsed during year Number of Market price Number of options at Grant price Exercise price on exercise options at Exercise price Exercisable 1 31 03 13 Number p Number p p 31 3 2014 p dates Martin Greenslade 1,599 1,599 577 08 201502 2016 2 Richard Akers 4,033 3,649 388 1,021 1 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Not subject to performance conditions as it is available to all staff and HM Revenue and Customs rules do not permit performance conditions for this type of scheme.
Not exercised during the 2013 14 year, and therefore no gains shown.
2 Richard Akers was allowed to exercise the accumulated portion i. e. excluding the period from 31 March 2014 to 1 August 2014 of his SAYE shares as part of his exit arrangements.
Remuneration outcomes for Directors during the year In this section, we explain the pay outcomes for Directors in relation to the financial year ending on 31 March 2014.
The table below shows the payments we expect to make, and then the following tables give more detail on how we have measured the performance outcomes with respect to the Annual Bonus and long-term incentive plans, in the context of value created for shareholders.
3.1 Directors emoluments The basis of disclosure in the table below is on an accruals basis.
This means that the annual bonus column includes the amount that will be paid in connection with performance achieved in the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
The values shown for long-term incentive plan awards in 2013 14 are calculated using the average share price for the quarter ending on 31 March 2014.
The actual price is not known at the time of writing as the awards do not formally vest until June and July 2014.
In anticipation of the changing requirements, last years table was drawn up on the same basis, so that the numbers can be directly compared.
Basic salary is stated as per annum figure.
Actual salaries in the year were 691,333 Robert Noel, 467,666 Martin Greenslade and 416,833 Richard Akers.
Benefits consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance premiums.
The pension allowance shown is a cash emolument of 25% of base salary.
Richard Akers opted out of the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme in 2012.
The longterm incentives for 2013 14 have been calculated using a share price of 10.40.
The long-term incentives vesting in 2012 13 were estimated in last years report, so have been adjusted to reflect actual values.
Richard Akers vested long-term incentives include the pro-rated awards for the 2012 plan see section 3.4, but do not include the bonus shares for past performance periods.
strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 71 Single total figure of remuneration for each Director 000 continued Audited Table 45 Basic salary Annual bonus Annual bonus Longterm 1 and fees Benefits Pension allowance paid in cash deferred into shares Total emoluments incentives vested Total 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 Non-executives Dame Alison Carnwath 325 300 325 300 325 300 David Rough 64 66 64 66 64 66 Kevin OByrne 91 88 91 88 91 88 2 Sir Stuart Rose 47 60 47 60 47 60 Chris Bartram 64 60 64 60 64 60 Simon Palley 76 66 76 66 76 66 Stacey Rauch 64 60 64 60 64 60 Edward Bonham Carter 17 0 17 0 17 0 Cressida Hogg 17 0 17 0 17 0 1.
The basic fees for Non-executive Directors were increased on 1 October 2013.
The amounts shown are the actual fees earned in the year.
Sir Stuart Rose stepped down on 31 December 2013.
3.2 Annual bonus outturns In the year under review, each Executive Director has had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 150% of his base salary.
Of this, 130% was dependent on meeting Group targets and 20% dependent on meeting personal targets.
All targets were set at the beginning of the year.
The following table illustrates the Group targets and the respective outcomes.
For more detail on the significance of the key targets, please see section 2.4 performance targets for the year ahead.
The Group Annual Bonus outturns, together with the long-term incentive plan outturns, as they were applied to Richard Akers, are shown in a separate table.
This is because Mr Akers stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2014, and was awarded his bonus and shares at the point of departure, before all the outturns had been confirmed.
Annual bonus outturn Unaudited Table 46 Outturn Percentage of Percentage of base salary base salary Percentage Target maximum Assessment awarded of maximum Ungeared Total Property Return.
39.0 The adjusted Land Securities Total Property Return for the year 0 0 12.95% did not meet that of its benchmark 15%.
1 Share in long-term real growth in Group revenue profit c. 39.0 Revenue profit for the year 319.6m significantly exceeded the 49.7 38.2 target, which was 251.3m last years threshold of 244m increased by 3% inflation.
After certain adjustments, 5% of the resulting profit pool base of 63.4m 3.17m has been contributed to the Bonus pool.
As there is no upper cap on the outperformance, the outturn exceeds the maximum shown.
There is, however, an overall cap on the Group element of bonus of 130% of base.
Key business targets Development lettings and conditional lettings.
20.8 The outturn is calculated on the basis that nothing is paid out until 16.1 12.4 a threshold target of 27m is achieved.
Achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis from threshold to the maximum target 35.2m of development lettings The Group secured development lettings and conditional lettings for the year of 33.4m The London Business Unit put in a particularly strong performance, with Retail lettings continuing to be challenging.
10.4 Revenue profit achieved in the year exceeds the upper threshold of 10.4 8.0 the target.
Planning permission secured on four specific London and 10.4 This was achieved for all four of the assets specified.
Achieve the disposal of three specific London and Retail assets.
10.4 Two of the three specified assets were sold over the year.
However, 0 0 as all three were listed for sale, no bonus award has been given.
TOTAL GROUP ELEMENTS 86.6 66.6 Underpayment from 2012 13 Last year, there was a miscalculation 2.5 1.9 of the IPD Quarterly Index by IPD which resulted in an underpayment into the Group Bonus pool of 160,000.
The Committee agreed that this should be deferred into the Group pool for 2013 14.
TOTAL GROUP ELEMENTS INCLUDING UNDERPAYMENT 89.1 68.5 Executive Director individual targets Each Director received a number of personal targets, which 20.0 Individual Executive Directors were scored by the Remuneration included: Committee on the basis of objectively measurable targets set at the beginning of the year.
The outturn was as follows: Defining and implementing a new Executive Committee, including the appointment of the new Managing Directors Robert Noel 17.0 Continuing to broaden and deepen relationships with Martin Greenslade 16.0 domestic and international investors Maximising the flexibility of the Groups funding structure Implementing improvements to the Groups reporting.
Total 150.0 Robert Noel 106.1 71.0 Martin Greenslade 105.1 70.0 72 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 3.3 Long-term incentive plan outturns The table below summarises how we have assessed our performance over the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014.
Awards under the Groups long-term incentive plans are subject to performance conditions measured over three financial years.
The performance conditions compare the Groups relative performance against its peers in terms of Total Property Return TPR and Total Shareholder Return TSR, with each measure contributing 50% to the total.
Please see table 41 for more detail on how vesting levels are determined.
The performance calculation for awards vesting in 2014 are illustrated below: Long-term incentive plan outturns Unaudited Table 47 Outturn Percentage of Target Percentage of base salary maximum Assessment maximum The Land Securities Total Property Return equalled that of the sector Ungeared Total Property Return.
12.5 weighted IPD Quarterly Universe at 9.6% per annum over the three year period.
Therefore, 12.5% maximum 50% of the total award vests.
The Land Securities Total Shareholder Return over the three year period Total Shareholder Return.
50.0 was 57.9%, outperforming that of the comparator group see below which was 45%.
On a per annum basis, this equates to 4.1% and therefore this part of the award vests in full.
In total, therefore, awards made in 2011, and measured over the three year period to 31 March 2014, vested at 62.5% of the maximum.
For awards granted in 2012, the Groups performance over the two years to 31 March 2014 would, if sustained over the three year period, result in 58% of the share awards vesting.
For awards granted in 2013, performance over the one year period to 31 March 2014 would, if sustained over the second and third years of the period, result in 50% of the awards vesting.
Remuneration outcomes for Directors during the year continued 3.4 Summary of the exit arrangements for Richard Akers Richard Akers stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2014.
In consideration of Mr Akers performance, and his contribution to the Board since 2005, the Committee determined that some good leaver provisions should apply, but that Mr Akers should only be rewarded for the period of time in which he served as a Director.
As Mr Akers received his payments on 31 March 2014, when the outturns of the plans were not yet finalised, estimates were made against each element of the annual bonus based on the best information available to the Committee.
For the LTIP shares and matching shares the TSR was measured under the rules of the scheme using the average share price over the 30 days to 24 March 2014.
Performance against IPD was measured to 30 September 2013, the latest valuation date available.
For ease, we have summarised in the table below how each element of Mr Akers reward package has been treated: Summary of the exit arrangements for Richard Akers Unaudited Table 49 Cash Value Element Treatment Shares Received Base salary Ended on 31 March 2014. n a n a n a Final payment 31 March 2014 Notice pay None given.
n a n a n a Annual bonus Awarded for the full year to 31 March 2014.
378,345 n a n a 31 March 2014 Outturns against each element estimated as follows: TPR vs IPD assumed 0% of base Revenue Profit assumed 49.5% of base Key Business Plan targets assumed 31% of base Individual bonus awarded 10% of base Total Bonus 90.5% of base, all awarded in cash.
1 Deferred bonus shares Awarded in full as they had been deferred from bonuses 91,950 944,326 31 March 2014 paid for past performance periods, under the rules of the bonus scheme.
Long-term incentives and 2013 award lapsed 31 March 2014 1 matching shares: 2011 and 2012 awards were pro-rated for the portion of the performance period worked.
2011 LTIP 100% award given at 77.4% of max vesting.
3.5 Individual outcomes by Director Unaudited Table 51 Robert Noel Chart 50 Chief Executive Outturn Percentage 3,000,000 2,966,000 Maximum of maximum potential achieved 2,500,000 2,272,000 Element of pay 000 % 000 2,032,000 Base salary 694 n a 694 2,000,000 Pension 173 n a 173 1,500,000 Benefits 22 n a 22 1,000,000 889,000 1 Annual bonus 500,000 Group element 902 68.5 618 0 Individual element 139 85.0 118 1 Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual Long-term incentive plan 1,036 62.5 647 Basic salary 30.5% Annual bonus 32.4% Total 2,966 2,272 Pension 7.6% Long-term incentives 28.5% Benets 1.0% 1.
347,000 of Robert Noels annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year, and 42,000 for two years.
Percentages are of the actual.
74 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Unaudited Table 53 Martin Greenslade Chart 52 Chief Financial officer Outturn Maximum Percentage 3,000,000 potential of maximum Element of pay 000 achieved 000 2,500,000 2,380,000 Base salary 469 n a 469 2,000,000 Pension 117 n a 117 1,768,000 1,563,000 1,500,000 Benefits 20 n a 20 1,000,000 1 Annual bonus 606,000 Group element 610 68.5 418 500,000 Individual element 94 80.0 75 0 Long-term incentive plan 1,070 62.5 669 1 Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual Total 2,380 1,768 Basic salary 26.5% Annual bonus 27.9% Pension 6.6% Long-term incentives 37.8% 1.
235,000 of Martin Greenslades annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year, and 23,000 for two years.
Unaudited Table 55 Richard Akers Chart 54 Executive Director 2 Outturn 3,000,000 Percentage Maximum of maximum 2,644,000 potential achieved 2,500,000 Element of pay 000 % 000 2,142,000 2,000,000 Base salary 418 n a 418 Pension 105 n a 105 1,500,000 1,407,000 Benefits 23 n a 23 1,000,000 1 Annual bonus 546,000 500,000 543 62.1 337 Group element 0 Individual element 84 48.8 41 1 Fixed pay On target Maximum Actual 2 Long-term incentive plan 969 1,720 Basic salary 15.8% Annual bonus 14.3% Total 2,142 2,644 Pension 4.0% Long-term incentives 65.1% Benets 0.9% 1.
Richard Akers annual bonus was paid in cash.
Richard Akers actual outturn exceeds the maximum as his 2012 LTIP award vested early on a pro rata basis see section 3.4.
Richard Akers became a non-executive director of Barratt Developments PLC in April 2012.
In keeping with the Companys policy, the Nominations Committee permitted him to retain his Directors fees of 58,000 per annum.
3.6 Richard Akers defined benefit pension arrangement Defined benefit pension scheme Audited Table 56 Capital value relating to increase in accrued Accrued Accrued Increase in Increase in pension, less benefit at benefit at accrued benefits accrued benefits Contributions payable Directors own 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 excluding inflation including inflation by the Company contributions Richard Akers 38,458 37,752 706 Richard Akers opted out of the Scheme on 31 March 2012 and has a deferred benefit which is linked to inflation.
He does not earn future pension accrual.
There were no contributions from the Director.
Information reported in line with schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013. strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 75 4.
Comparison of CEO pay to Total Shareholder Return As required by legislation covering the Directors Remuneration Report, the following illustrates the performance of the Company measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid against a broad equity market index over a period of five years.
As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index, this is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for the purposes of the graph.
An additional line to illustrate the Companys performance compared with the FTSE 100 index over the previous five years is also included.
Adjacent to this chart is a table showing how the single number of remumeration for the Chief Executive has moved over the same period.
It should be noted that Robert Noel became Chief Executive in March 2012, succeeding Francis Salway.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters CEO remuneration over five years Unaudited Table 58 Annual bonus Long-term Single figure award against incentive vesting of total maximum against amount 1 remuneration opportunity awarded Year Chief Executive Officer 000 % % 2014 Robert Noel 2,272 71.0 62.5 2013 Robert Noel 2,678 86.0 76.1 2012 Francis Salway 2,769 24.0 85.9 2011 Francis Salway 1,798 39.0 27.5 2010 Francis Salway 1,694 34.0 50.0 1.
Under the policy covering the years 20102012 shown in the table, bonus arrangements for Executive Directors comprised three elements: an Annual Bonus with a maximum potential of 100% of basic salary, a Discretionary Bonus with a maximum potential of 50% of basic salary and an Additional Bonus with a maximum potential of 200% of salary.
The first two elements are subject to an overall aggregate cap of 130% of basic salary, with the overall amount of the three elements capped at 300% of basic salary.
2012: 73.4% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the Annual Bonus with no awards made under the Discretionary Bonus or Additional Bonus.
2011: 94.5% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the Annual Bonus, Discretionary Bonus of 60% of the maximum opportunity with no awards made under the Additional Bonus.
2010: 77% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the Annual Bonus, Discretionary Bonus of 50% of the maximum opportunity with no awards made under the Additional Bonus.
The context of pay in Land Securities 5.1 Pay across the Group a.
Senior Managers During the year under review, bonuses including discretionary bonuses for our 15 most senior employees ranged from 43% to 102% of salary 2013: 60% to 103%.
The average bonus is 71% of salary 2013: 86%.
The long-term incentive plan awards made to Senior Managers vested on the same basis as the awards made to Executive Directors.
All other employees The average pay increase for all employees, including the Executive Directors, was 2.5%.
Including salary adjustments and promotions for employees below the Board, this rose to 3.0%.
The ratio of the salary of the Chief Executive to the average salary across the Group excluding Directors was 14:1 694,000:50,000.
Unaudited Table 59 Salary Bonus % Change % Benefits % CEO 2.5 No change 17 Average employee 2.5 No change 8 5.2 The relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the total spend on pay for all Land Securities employees, when compared with our returns to shareholders in the form of dividends: Unaudited Table 60 March 2013 March 2014 Metric m m % Change 1 Spend on pay 50.7 50.5 0.4 2 Dividend 228.8 236.5 3.4 1.
Including base salaries for all employees, bonus and share awards at face value.
See Notes to the Financial Statements.
Dilution Awards granted under the 2005 and 2012 long-term incentive plans, which cover LTIP and Matching Performance Share Awards, Deferred Bonus Share Awards and the 2005 Executive Share Option Plan are satisfied through the funding of an Employee Benefit Trust administered by an external trustee which acquires shares in the market.
The Employee Benefit Trust held 1,031,952 shares at 31 March 2014.
The exercise of share options under the Groups Sharesave Scheme, which is open to all employees who have completed one months service with the Group, is satisfied by the allotment of newly issued shares.
At 31 March 2014, the total number of shares which could be allotted under this scheme was 430,883 shares, which represent significantly less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee met four times over the course of the year, and all of the members attended all meetings.
Simon Palley chaired the Committee, and the other members are Dame Alison Carnwath, Chris Bartram and Edward Bonham Carter who joined the Committee in March 2014.
David Rough stood down from the Committee in May 2013.
The Committee meetings were also attended by the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director, and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary who acted as the Committees Secretary.
Over the course of the year, the Committee received advice on remuneration and ancillary legal matters from New Bridge Street, a trading name of AON plc.
It has also made use of various published surveys to help determine appropriate remuneration levels and relied on information and advice provided by the Group General Counsel and Group HR Director.
New Bridge Street has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
Aside from some support in benchmarking roles below the Board for pay review purposes, New Bridge Street has no other connection with the Group.
For the financial year under review, New Bridge Street received fees of 43,000 in connection with its work for the Committee.
Results of the vote on the Remuneration Report at the Land Securities AGM for 2013 The votes cast on the resolution seeking approval for the Directors Remuneration Report at our 2013 AGM were as follows: Resolution % of votes For % of votes Against Number of votes withheld To approve the Policy Report forming the first part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2013 98.03 1.97 1,229,688 To approve the Implementation Report forming the second and final part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2013 98.02 1.98 1,247,473 The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Palley Chairman of Remuneration Committee
