goverNaNce Remuneration report LTIP awards granted in 2011 will vest in December 2014 and Dear shareholder January 2015, based on a three year performance period ending 30 September 2014.
The TSR target was not met, whilst This is my first report as Chairman of the the NAV target was met in full, resulting in 50% vesting of the Remuneration Committee, having taken over total award.
the role at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
The current LTIP will expire in 2016 and therefore, during the Our remuneration policy sets out our approach to the reward of course of 2015, the Committee will undertake a review of our executive and non-executive directors.
It reflects the LTIP arrangements.
A new plan will be proposed to Committees aim that overall levels of executive remuneration shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
should be fair whilst maintaining stability in the management of remuneration review this long-term business.
The Committee concluded no changes to the remuneration policy Last year, for the first time under the new regulations on were required at ths time.
However, the Committee is taking directors remuneration, our remuneration policy was tabled for steps to implement the changes to the UK Corporate Governance approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
We were pleased to Code and the requirement to introduce clawback arrangements have received a 99% vote in support.
The Group already operates malus provisions in the Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme As no changes to our policy are proposed for the year ahead, it and the LTIP and is introducing clawback for the performance is not subject to shareholder approval.
The full policy is available year ending 30 September 2015 in respect of the annual on the Groups website and a short summary of the policy table bonus, and for LTIP awards being made in December 2014. is set out below.
Although the Committee has discretion within the boundaries of Our results this year show further growth in net asset value, the remuneration policy, it has not this year exercised any such rents, earnings and dividends.
We also refinanced near-term discretion.
debt and raised 153.2 million in an equity placing.
This performance has been taken into account when considering The Annual Remuneration Report which follows will be variable remuneration for the executive directors.
proposed for an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
The Committees key decisions during the year related to: Sally Walden a review of basic salaries Chairman Remuneration Committe Salaries hav e been reviewed with effect from 1 December 2014 with increases of 3% which is below other employees in the Group.
Christopher Ward received an increase of 9%, recognising context for the Groups approach to that when he joined the Group in 2012, he received a lower remuneration salary as he was new to the role.
This is the final year where he will receive a signficantly higher than average increase.
The Group has 23 employees, including four executive directors.
annual bonus awards The combined holdings of the four executive directors stand F or the annual bonus scheme, performance is measured at just over 2.5 million shares with a market value of 17 million against the Groups KPIs and other objectives which are critical at the year end.
Brian Bickell, Simon Quayle and Thomas to long-term value creation for shareholders.
The outcome of Welton have an average length of service of 27 years and the performance against these targets is a bonus award of 75%.
value of their individual shareholdings is approximately 14 Each executive director will take their bonus in shares.
They have built up substantial LTIP shareholdings in the Group mainly through retaining shares A gr ant of nil cost options under the LTIP was made in awarded under current and previous employee share schemes.
December 2013 at 125% of basic salary, below the policy limit They have taken their annual bonus in shares for 8 out of the of 150%.
Vesting will be subject to the same performance 9 years since the inception of the Deferred Annual Share criteria that have been applied since the scheme was approved Bonus scheme and retained shares vesting each year from by shareholders in 2006.
Performance is measured against the LTIP.
TSR versus the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index and NAV growth in The Groups small team of executive directors and key staff all excess of RPI plus 3% over a three year period.
have a close involvement in the continuing development of the These perf ormance measures incentivise value creation for Groups management strategies and their implementation.
shareholders and the increase in the value of the Groups Consequently, the Committee considers it appropriate that, in assets.
The Committee believes that these performance setting objectives and measuring performance, emphasis is targets remain appropriate and provide a consistent approach placed on team rather than individual performance.
The to measurement to determine vesting levels in the scheme.
average length of service below Board level is 11 years.
