Remuneration Report Introduction by Fiona Laird.
A forward looking Directors Moores case, this will also qualify for an Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Policy Report which award of matching shares, vesting based proposes an overall executive on EPS performance over two years.
Dear Shareholder, remuneration framework that will be adopted and operated by the company The committee reviewed the TSR I am pleased to present the Directors in 2014 15 and the following two financial performance of the company in respect of Remuneration Report for 2013 14 on years if approved by shareholders the the 2010 Long Term Incentive Share Plan behalf of the Board and to summarise the policy set out in this part of the report LTISP award.
The company was ranked remuneration committee's main activities will become binding with effect from the 6th out of 20 against its peers at the end during the year.
annual general meeting to be held on 22 of the three year performance period, as a July 2014: and result of which 85% of the award vested.
The remuneration committee now consists An Annual Report on Remuneration The committee also reviewed the TSR entirely of independent non-executive which provides shareholders with details performance in relation to Alan Whites directors.
I became its chairman on of the remuneration that was actually LTISP awards.
In addition to myself, delivered to the companys directors the current members are Ron McMillan, during 2013 14 and explains how the The committee reviewed the salaries of Simon Patterson, and Anna Ford.
new policy referred to above will be the executive directors in April 2014 and applied in 2014 15 this final part of determined that these should be increased The remuneration committee met the report will be subject to an advisory by 2.5%, in-line with most of the general on 5 occasions during the year.
vote at the forthcoming annual general workforce, effective from 1 June 2014.
Members attendance was as follows: meeting.
Following Angela Spindlers appointment Attendance On 1 July 2013, Angela Spindler became as chief executive and in anticipation of chief executive on terms described in last the introduction of the companys first Fiona Laird Chairman year's Remuneration Report.
Details of binding vote on its remuneration policy at appointed 1 April 2013 4 the bonus targets set for her first year as the forthcoming annual general meeting Ivan Fallon Past Chairman chief executive and of her joining awards the remuneration committee has reviewed retired from the committee are provided in the Annual Report on the company's remuneration arrangements 1 October 2013 4 Remuneration.
On 31 October 2013, Alan for executive directors.
As a result of this Ron McMillan White retired as a director and employee.
review the committee has decided to make appointed 1 April 2013 4 He received a pro-rata bonus for 2013 14 the following changes to its policy for Simon Patterson and his outstanding share awards vested 2014 15 and future years: appointed 1 April 2013 3 on a pro-rata basis as described in John McGuire the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The annual incentive arrangements will retired 1 October 2013 3 In addition, he will receive a lump sum be simplified, bringing the arrangements Anna Ford 5 cash payment as settlement of his preof the Chief Executive and Finance existing entitlements under the company's Director into line with each other.
For The remuneration committee reviews, unregistered pension arrangements.
the Finance Director this will involve formulates and determines the reward and Details are set out in the Annual Report replacing the share matching element remuneration package of each executive on Remuneration.
with an increase in the maximum director and other senior employees of the annual bonus opportunity for 2014 15 company including the Home Shopping The principal performance metric for the from 100% of salary to 125% of salary board.
It also considers how the company normal annual bonus was based on group and an increase in the percentage of is applying the principles of the UK profit.
The committee determined that bonus deferred from 25% to 40% of Corporate Governance Code the Code this element of the annual bonus targets any payout.
This change will result in in respect of directors remuneration.
had not been met and therefore no bonus effectively no increase in the target value was awarded to Dean Moore nor to Alan of his remuneration and no change in the We have continued to develop our strategy White in respect of this element.
The target percentage of his bonus delivered of creating a remuneration framework remainder of the normal annual bonus was in cash and in shares.
In addition, the that rewards both long and short-term based on meeting corporate and personal vesting period for future deferred bonus performance as we believe this is in the objectives.
The committee determined increased from two to three years for best interests of all of our shareholders.
that these were met in part, resulting both directors.
No further matching in a bonus of 16.8% of salary for Dean share awards will be made in relation to This is the first year that the report is Moore and a bonus of 15.8% of salary, financial years after 2013 14. subject to the new regime contained in on a time pro-rated basis for Alan White.
The company intends to seek approval the amended Large and Medium-sized As disclosed last year, the bonus agreed for a new Deferred Share Bonus Companies and Groups Accounts as part of Angela Spindlers recruitment Plan that will give effect to the new and Reports Regulations 2008 the package was also time pro-rated and arrangements.
Going forward, this will Regulations.
As such, it has been was based on non-financial personal replace the existing Deferred Annual separated into the following parts: objectives relevant to the balance of the Bonus Scheme.
This will continue to financial year following her appointment.
enable matching share awards to be This Annual Statement which identifies The committee determined that these had made to employees below the level of the key messages on remuneration been met, resulting in a 83.3% bonus after the executive directors.
for the year under review and explains pro-rating.
Angela Spindlers bonus will be The weighting of performance measures the business context in which the paid wholly in cash.
25% of Dean Moores used in the annual bonus is being committees major decisions during the bonus will be delivered as an award of changed to reflect the revised strategic period were taken: shares deferred for two years and in Dean priorities of the group, with an increased N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 Remuneration Report weighting on corporate measures has also reviewed the TSR comparator measured against stretching targets, and a reduced weighting on personal group to ensure that it is appropriate both in absolute and relative terms: performance.
Subject to commercial for the awards in 2014 and has made a competitive and sufficiently flexible to confidentiality, performance against number of minor changes.
Details of the support the recruitment needs of the these targets will be disclosed in next revised group are provided in the Annual business: year's report.
paid in a combination of cash and As part of its review the committee shares: and concluded that Angela Spindler's total I will be available to answer any questions linked to performance measured over remuneration was below a mid-market at the annual general meeting in July and annual and three-year performance level for comparable retailers.
Chiefly this very much hope that you will support periods.
is as a result of the variable elements of the Directors' Remuneration Report and remuneration being below median.
Given Annual Report on Remuneration at our Summary of components of executive her performance and development in the forthcoming meeting.
directors remuneration role since appointment and in order to The table opposite summarises ensure an increased link to performance, I would like to thank all of my colleagues the committees policy for the main the Committee intends to increase both on the remuneration committee for all components of remuneration.
the chief executives maximum bonus their hard work in implementing the new and normal long-term incentive award.
reporting requirements of the Directors Both are currently set at 125% of salary, Remuneration Report and generally with as a result of which the overall level of the day to day tasks of the committee over incentive opportunity is below market.
For 2014 onwards these will both be increased to 150% of salary.
The impact Fiona Laird of these changes will be to position Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Angela Spindler's total remuneration at a broadly mid-market level.
The finance Remuneration policy directors LTIP award would also be This report sets out the information increased from 100% to 125% of salary required by Part 4 of the Schedule 8 to to increase the focus on longer-term The Large and Medium-sized Companies performance.
Following this change his and Groups Accounts and Reports remuneration would remain below midAmendment Regulations 2008, as market.
The report also satisfies the The company intends to seek approval relevant requirements of the Listing Rules for a new Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Financial Conduct Authority, and at the annual general meeting in July describes how the board has applied 2014.
Going forward, this will replace the principles and complied with the Long-Term Incentive Share Plan the provisions relating to directors LTISP.
The new plan will reflect remuneration in the Code.
current market and best practice and the individual limit for normal awards will It summarises the committees remain at 150% of base salary.
However, remuneration policy for the executive in exceptional circumstances, such as directors which, if approved by on recruitment, awards up to 200% of shareholders at the 2014 annual general salary will be permitted.
Awards with meeting, will become effective immediately an initial market value of 150% of salary thereafter.
and 125% of salary to Angela Spindler and Dean Moore, respectively, will be The committees policy is designed to granted shortly after the annual general ensure that the main elements of the meeting in July 2014. remuneration package are linked to With the exception of the award made the companys annual and long-term to Angela Spindler shortly following strategy, are appropriate in quantum her appointment which was subject to and capable of attracting, motivating equally weighted earnings per share and retaining executive directors.
The EPS and relative total shareholder policy aims to reward executive directors return TSR performance conditions, and senior executives by offering them relative TSR has historically been competitive remuneration packages, which the sole performance metric used to are prudently constructed, sufficiently determine the vesting of awards under stretching and linked to long-term the LTISP.
For 2014 15 and future years profitability and which do not encourage the committee intends to use growth excessive risk taking.
in adjusted EPS in excess of RPI and relative TSR as the metrics in the longIn particular, the committee strives to term incentive arrangements.
For the ensure that remuneration packages are: 2014 awards adjusted EPS would have a 60% weighting and relative TSR would aligned with the groups strategic plan: have a 40% weighting.
The committee aligned with shareholders interests: 36 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance to strategy assessment Salary Reflects the Reviewed annually, taking Salary increases will None, although overall performance of the account of absolute normally be in line with individual performance is individual, their skills group profitability and increases awarded to other a factor considered when and experience, and performance against employees of the group.
setting and reviewing the responsibilities personal & corporate salaries.
More significant increases may be awarded at Provides an Set with reference to the discretion of the appropriate level of the levels of base salary committee, for example: basic fixed income.
for similar positions where there is a change in with comparable status, responsibilities or scope responsibility and skills in of the role: to reflect competitor organisations individual development and of comparable size and performance in the role complexity, in particular e. g. for recent hires : or in those in the home exceptional circumstances.
shopping and retail market sectors.
When reviewing salary increases the committee takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package.
Any changes normally take effect from 1st June.
Annual bonus Drives and rewards Targets are reviewed Chief executive: up to 150% A significant majority of annual delivery of annually to ensure that of base salary p. a. the annual bonus will financial, corporate they are appropriate to the normally be determined by and personal goals.
current market conditions, Other executive directors: reference to performance the long-term strategy up to 125% of base against stretching group Annual performance of the company and that salary p. a. profit measures.
targets are aligned they continue to remain to the long-term stretching and challenging.
Additional targets linked strategic KPIs of to corporate performance the company and From 2014 15 onwards, and individual targets will aimed at increasing bonuses will be paid 60% be applied.
shareholder value, in cash, with 40% deferred whilst being prudent as a conditional award of Personal objectives will be and safeguarding shares.
measurable and linked to the future of the goals that are consistent company.
Vesting of future deferred with the groups longershares is at the end of term goals.
Deferral provides three years from the award alignment with of the bonus, subject to Performance below shareholders and continued employment threshold results in zero assists with save in good leaver payment.
from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity The payment of any for levels of performance earned bonus remains between threshold and ultimately at the discretion maximum, with 50% of the of the committee.
maximum normally payable for on-target performance.
Executives may also be entitled to receive the Includes a clawback value of dividends that mechanism in the event of would have been paid on material misstatement of vested shares during the the groups financial results deferral period.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 Remuneration Report Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance to strategy assessment Long-term Provides Annual grants of nil-cost Normal maximum Awards made from 2014 incentive plan appropriate options or conditional of 150% of salary.
onwards will be subject to LTIP incentives to awards of shares, which Exceptional circumstances targets based on growth in reward sustained vest subject to the groups maximum of 200% adjusted EPS in excess of success through performance measured of salary.
RPI 60% of the award and the achievement over three years.
relative TSR against a peer of challenging group of other retailers business targets, Participation and all 40% of the award.
The thereby aligning awards are subject to the committee will have the the interests of discretions given to the discretion to set different shareholders and committee in the plan weightings and select executives.
different peer groups for future awards.
The peer Executives may also group for 2014 is disclosed be entitled to receive in the Annual Report on the value of dividend Remuneration.
payments that would otherwise have been paid EPS targets are set by the on vested awards during remuneration committee the vesting period.
Targets for both EPS and TSR will be based on a sliding scale.
For each measure performance below threshold results in zero payment.
Payment rises from 25% at threshold or median to 100% of the maximum opportunity at a maximum or upper quartile performance level.
Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of the groups financial results or individual misconduct.
All-employee All employees, The group operates an The plans are subject to N A share schemes including executives, HM Revenue & Customs statutory individual limits as SAYE and SIP are able to approved savings related amended from time-to-time.
acquire shares by share option scheme These are broad-based participating in the for the benefit of group plans and are not subject to groups all-employee employees provided that performance targets.
share plan at the they have completed at discretion of the least six months service.
Participation in in the SIP may also be offered.
Pension Provides retirement The company operates a Up to 15% of salary as a N A benefits that defined contribution plan company contribution to a reward sustained and may also provide cash defined contribution pension contribution.
pension contributions or scheme and or as a cash cash supplements in lieu.
Other benefits Provides a Main benefits currently Car and fuel allowance up N A competitive include private medical to 20,000 per annum.
package of benefits insurance and a car that assists with allowance.
Other benefits will be in-line recruitment and with market.
each benefit it based on the cost to the company and is not predetermined.
38 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Notes: for the more senior executives within the entered into with the current or former 1.
A description of how the company organisation.
directors in accordance with the relevant intends to implement the policy set out plan rules, where applicable.
It is also part in this table for 2014 15 is set out in the Although the committee does not consult of this policy that the company will honour Annual Report on Remuneration on directly with employees on directors pay, payments or awards crystallising after the page 41. the committee does take into consideration effective date of this policy but arising from 2.
The remuneration policy for the the pay and employment conditions of commitments entered into at a time when executive directors and other senior all employees when setting the policy for the relevant individual was not a director executives is designed with regard to directors remuneration.
The committee at the company.
Details of any payments the policy for employees across the is also mindful of any changes to the pay to former directors will be set out in the group as a whole.
However, there are and benefit conditions for employees more Annual Report on Remuneration.
some differences in the structure of the generally when considering the policy for remuneration policy for senior executives.
Selection of performance metrics In general, these differences arise and targets from the development of remuneration Committee discretions All incentives are subject to the individual arrangements that are market competitive The committee operates the groups review and scrutiny of the committee, for the various categories of individuals.
variable incentive plans according to their particularly in the case of share incentives, They also reflect the fact that, in the case respective rules and in accordance with both at award and vesting to ensure of the executive directors and senior HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the that performance has been correctly executives, a greater emphasis tends to be efficient administration of these plans and adjudicated and to safeguard against placed on performance-related pay in the to be consistent with market practice, the excessive overall reward.
committee will retain certain operational and remuneration is linked to both 3.
Prior to 2014 15, 25% of any bonus to discretions.
These include: corporate and individual performance and executive directors other than Angela is benchmarked to attract and retain the Spindler was compulsorily deferred in selecting plan participants: highest quality people.
shares for two years and eligible for a 1:1 determining the timing of grants of matching award of shares, vesting of which awards and or payment: The annual bonus is designed to was subject to performance conditions.
determining the quantum of awards and thoroughly stretch the performance of the Angela Spindlers 2013 14 bonus is or payments within the limits set out in executive and is linked to absolute growth delivered wholly in cash.
the policy table above : in annual group profit, the achievement of 4.
All-employee share plans do not determining the extent of vesting based certain business targets and of personal have performance conditions.
Executive on the assessment of performance: objectives.
These targets are reviewed and directors are eligible to participate in the making the appropriate adjustments agreed by the committee at the beginning SAYE and SIP on the same terms as other required in certain circumstances of each financial year to ensure that they employees.
e. g. change of control, rights issues, are appropriate to the current market 5.
Copies of the LTIP rules are available on corporate restructuring events, and conditions and the long-term strategy of request from the company secretary.
special dividends : the company, and that they continue to 6.
LTISP awards granted prior to 2014 determining good leaver status for remain stretching and challenging.
The are subject to performance conditions incentive plan purposes and applying targets are linked to KPIs which are drawn described in the Annual Report on the appropriate treatment: and from, and relate to, the achievement of Remuneration.
undertaking the annual review of milestones contained in the companys 7.
The company also operates share weighting of performance measures, strategic long-term plan.
This ensures they ownership guidelines requiring executive and setting targets for the annual bonus are aligned to the strategic objectives of directors to acquire and hold a specified plan and LTIP from year to year.
the company and designed to increase level of shareholding.
The current level shareholder value, whilst being prudent of holding expected under the guidelines If an event occurs which results in the and safeguarding the long-term future of is described in the Annual Report on Annual Bonus Plan, Deferred Share Bonus the company.
Plan or LTIP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer The committee has decided to apply a How employees pay is taken appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or condition based on growth in adjusted into account divestment, the committee will have the EPS alongside the existing measure, The remuneration policy for the executive ability to adjust appropriately the measures TSR, to awards made under the LTIP in directors is designed with regard to and or targets and alter weightings, 2014 and future years.
Adjusted EPS is the policy for employees across the provided that the revised conditions or considered appropriate as it is easily group as a whole.
The companys targets are not materially less difficult to understood, is a key measure of financial ability to meet growth expectations and satisfy.
performance and closely aligned to the compete effectively is dependent on companys objectives of driving profitable the skills, experience and performance Any use of the above discretions would, growth.
The measure takes account of fair of all of our employees.
As a result our where relevant, be explained in the Annual value adjustments to financial instruments employment policies, remuneration Report on Remuneration and may, as net of tax as well as other exceptional and benefit packages for employees appropriate, be the subject of consultation non-recurring items such as unplanned are regularly reviewed.
Whilst there are with the companys major shareholders.
investments in, for example, IT some differences in the structure of infrastructure, investments to drive long the remuneration policy, these reflect Legacy arrangements term growth, acquisitions and or disposals.
individuals' differing responsibilities, with In approving the remuneration policy, As the targets are set as a rate of growth in the principal difference being the increased authority is given to the company to excess of RPI it also takes into account emphasis on performance related pay honour any commitments previously inflation.
TSR provides an external N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39 Remuneration Report assessment of the company's performance Shareholding guidelines How shareholders views are taken against its peers and aligns rewards It is the boards policy that executive into account received by the executives with the returns directors build and retain a minimum The committee considers shareholder received by shareholders.
The committee shareholding in the company.
Under these feedback received regarding the directors determines from time to time which guidelines the chief executive and the remuneration report and guidance from companies are to be added or removed finance director are respectively required shareholder representative bodies more from this comparator group, including the to hold company shares equal in value generally.
As appropriate, the committee treatment of any company which ceases at the time of acquisition to 200% and also seeks feedback from shareholders trading during any performance period.
100% of their base salary, respectively and on specific matters.
These views are key to have met this guideline within 5 years inputs when shaping remuneration policy.
The committee considers the groups of appointment.
Details of the current performance on environmental, social and shareholdings of the executive directors governance ESG issues when setting are provided later in this report.
the remuneration of any executive director and is of the opinion that the incentive arrangements for senior managers do not raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour or the taking of undue risks with the business.
Potential remuneration scenarios for executive directors 000s 2,400 2,230 2,200 2,000 1,800 1,600 36% 1,400 1,304 1,231 1,200 16% 1,000 34% 749 800 631 32% 36% 15% 600 415 30% 34% 400 200 0 Fixed Pay Target Maximum Fixed Pay Target Maximum Angela Spindler Dean Moore Total Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-term Share Grants Assumptions 1.
Fixed pay salary as paid in year, benefits and pension provision.
On target fixed pay plus target annual bonus 50% of the maximum of 75% of salary for the chief executive and 62.5% of salary for the finance director plus target LTIP awards of 37.5% of salary for the chief executive and 31.25% for the finance director.
Maximum fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director plus maximum LTIP awards of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director.
Salary levels on which other elements of the packages are calculated are based on those effective from 1 June 2014.
The value of taxable benefits is based on an estimated cost of 19,000 in respect of the chief executive and 17,000 for the finance director and includes a car allowance and health insurance.
Pension provision is 15% of salary for the chief executive and 12% for the finance director.
40 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Executive directors service contractual constraints, accept phased the company.
Where the director may agreements and termination policy payments.
The committee seeks to be entitled to pursue a legal claim, the ensure that there are no unjustified company will be entitled to negotiate It is the companys policy that executive payments for failure.
Neither of the settlement terms that the committee directors should have contracts with an executive directors contracts provides considers to be in the best interests indefinite term providing for a maximum for liquidated damages.
There are no of the company and to enter into a of 12 months' notice.
special provisions contained in any of the settlement agreement to effect the terms executive directors contracts that provide agreed under the service contract and The policy is that the company does not for longer periods of notice on a change of any additional statutory or other claims.
make payments beyond its contractual control of the company.
Furthermore, there Potential termination payments are obligations on termination.
In addition, are no special provisions providing for summarised below: executive directors are expected to additional compensation on an executive mitigate their loss or, within existing directors cessation of employment with Name Date of contract Potential termination payment Angela Spindler 1 July 2013 12 months salary and benefits Dean Moore 20 December 2004 12 months salary and benefits Other than in certain good leaver the financial year in which an award is may be set for the first year in the case of circumstances including, but not limited granted.
Thereafter awards held by good the annual bonus and long-term incentives to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement or leavers may vest subject to performance taking into account the responsibilities of on a change of control, no bonus would without pro-rating.
On a change of control the individual, and the point in the financial be payable unless the individual remains existing awards would not be pro-rated.
year at which they joined.
employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
Any bonuses paid to Apart from service contracts, no executive If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay, a good leaver would be based on an director has any material interest in any which would be forfeited by reason of assessment of their individual and the contract with the company or its leaving the previous employer, in order companys performance over the period, subsidiaries.
to secure the appointment, this would be provided for taking into account the form and pro-rated for the proportion of the bonus year worked.
Copies of executive directors service cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing contracts and also non-executive Deferred bonus share awards will directors letters of appointment are performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited and such other specific also normally lapse on cessation of available for inspection at the companys employment, unless the executive director registered office on application to the matters as the committee considers relevant.
Existing arrangements may be is deemed to be a good leaver by the company secretary.
Awards will vest early on a bought out on terms that are no more favourable than the committee considers change of control subject to the plan rules.
Recruitment of executive directors Base salary levels will be set in accordance is required to provide reasonable compensation to the incoming director With regards to long-term incentive awards, with the companys remuneration policy, the LTIP rules provide that other than in taking account of the executives skills, for the awards they will be losing.
Existing plans will be used to the extent possible certain good leaver circumstances, experience and their current remuneration awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where it is appropriate to offer subject to the exceptional limits contained in the plan rules, however, the committee Where an individual is a good leaver, the a lower salary initially, a series of above committees normal policy for future LTIP inflation increases to the desired salary retains discretion to agree bespoke arrangements and, if required, to make awards will be to permit awards to remain positioning may be given over subsequent outstanding until the end of the original years subject to individual and company use of the flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make awards without prior performance period, when a pro-rata performance.
reduction will be made to take account of shareholder approval when buying out existing entitlements.
There is no intention the proportion of the vesting period that Benefits and pension will generally be elapsed prior to termination of provided in accordance with the approved to use this flexibility to offer a golden hello unrelated to remuneration lost.
employment, although the committee has policy, with relocation expenses and or an discretion to partly or completely disapply expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
The service contract for a new appointment pro-rating and the performance conditions For an overseas appointment, the benefit and or allow earlier vesting in certain and pension arrangements may be tailored would be in accordance with the policy for the current executive directors.
On a change of control to reflect local market practice subject to awards would vest, subject to the extent the overall maximum limits set out in the In the case of an internal hire, any to which the performance conditions have policy table.
Assistance with relocation been achieved and, normally, pro-rating may be provided where appropriate.
Tax outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed for time.
The committee has discretion to equalisation may also be considered as determine good leaver treatment.
In may payment of the executives legal fees to pay out according to its terms of grant.
doing so, it will take account of the reason in connection with the appointment.
for their departure and the performance Fees for a new chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the approved of the individual.
The variable pay opportunity will be in accordance with the companys approved policy.
For awards granted under the LTISP, policy as detailed above.
However, awards lapse if cessation occurs during different performance measures and targets N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 Remuneration Report Policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance to strategy assessment Non-executive Takes account of All non-executive directors have specific terms of N A N A directors and recognised practice engagement and their remuneration is determined Chairmans and set at a level by the board within the limits set by the Articles of fees that is sufficient to Association and based on independent surveys attract and retain of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar high-calibre noncompanies.
The chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The chairs of committee and senior independent director receive additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Non-executive directors may not participate in any of the companys share incentive schemes or performance-based plans and are not eligible to join the companys pension scheme.
Limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation, secretarial support and hospitality provided in relation to the performance of their duties.
When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market movements in non-executive director fees, board committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments, the general economic environment and the level of increases awarded to the wider workforce.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be paid where there is a substantial increase in the time commitment required of non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors letters of notice in the event of early termination, compensation other than that provided appointment all non-executive appointments are on by general law.
three-year rolling terms terminable upon Non-executive directors are retained on three months notice.
All appointments Brief details of non-executive directors letters of appointment.
Other than the are subject to successful re-election contracts are summarised below: chairman and Lord Alliance, whose letters upon retirement at the annual general of appointment provide for six months meeting.
Termination carries no right to Date of contact letter Date of current term Notice Name of appointment commenced period Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 16 May 2007 10 April 2013 6 months Ivan Fallon 1 October 1994 10 April 2013 3 months John McGuire 17 March 2004 10 April 2013 3 months Anna Ford 1 March 2009 10 April 2013 3 months Andrew Higginson 3 July 2012 3 July 2012 6 months Fiona Laird 1 March 2013 1 April 2013 3 months Simon Patterson 13 March 2013 1 April 2013 3 months Ronald McMillan 1 March 2013 1 April 2013 3 months 42 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Medium-sized Companies and Groups Remuneration will be put to an advisory This part of the report has been prepared Accounts and Reports Amendment shareholder vote at the 2014 annual in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The information on Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Listing Rules.
The Annual Report on pages 43 to 48 has been audited.
The remuneration committee and its advisers Members of the remuneration committee Name From To Fiona Laird 1 April 2013 Date John McGuire 17 March 2004 31 March 2014 Anna Ford 1 March 2009 Date Ivan Fallon 1 October 1994 1 October 2013 Ron McMillan 1 April 2013 Date Simon Patterson 1 April 2013 Date The group head of legal & company Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc.
New group of companies, during the year.
secretary, Philip Harland, acts as secretary Bridge Street was formally appointed by The fees paid to New Bridge Street in to the committee and the chief executive, the committee.
Angela Spindler, the chairman, Andrew Resource Consulting Limited Mercer The fees paid to Mercer in 2013 14 in Higginson, and the group HR director, provided advice to the company during relation to the former chief executives Caroline Massingham, may also attend the year which materially assisted the pension arrangements in 2013 14 meetings by invitation.
However, no committee in relation to the former chief were 15,049 2012 13, 19,606.
The director played any part in discussion executive's pension arrangements and committee reviews the performance and about his or her own remuneration.
Pinsent Masons LLP provided advice independence of its advisers on an annual on compliance with legislation.
Pinsent basis and is satisfied that the advice The committee members have no Masons LLP are the groups general received is objective and independent.
personal financial interest other than as legal advisers and were not specifically shareholders in matters to be decided, appointed by the committee.
Mercer The advisors terms of engagement are no potential conflicts of interest arising were not specifically appointed by the available on request from the company from cross-directorships and no day-tocommittee and also provide other services secretary.
day involvement in running the business to the company in relation to pension and are considered by the company to be matters.
These advisors have no other Application of the remuneration policy independent.
The committee has formal connections with the group other than as for 2014 written terms of reference which are set out above.
available for shareholders to inspect and Base salary on the corporate website.
The committee New Bridge Street is a signatory to the The executive directors salaries were met 5 times during the year.
See page 33 Remuneration Consultants Group Code reviewed in April 2014.
The salary for details of attendance.
of Conduct, which sets out guidelines to increases take place from 1 June 2014 and ensure that its advice is independent and are set out below.
The salary increases are Advisers free from undue influence.
The company in line with most of the general workforce.
The committee received advice from received no other services from New New Bridge Street a trading name of Bridge Street, or any other part of the Aon Name Salary as at 1 June 2013 Salary as at 1 June 2014 Increase Angela Spindler 520,000 533,000 2.5% Dean Moore 346,860 355,531 2.5% appointed 1 July 2013 Fees for the chairman and nonnon-executive directors at a level which executive directors is sufficient to attract and retain nonAs detailed in the remuneration policy, executive directors of the right calibre.
the company aims to set remuneration for Details of the fees are detailed below: Name Fees as at 1 March 2013 Fees as at 1 March 2014 Increase Chairs fees 225,000 250,000 11.1% Other non-executive directors base fee 47,000 47,000 N A Senior independent non-executive director 5,000 5,000 N A Chair of a committees fees 5,000 8,000 5,000 8,000 N A Increase agreed at the time of appointment, payable from 1 October 2013 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43 Remuneration Report Annual bonus plan performance targets award of deferred shares.
Deferred bonus For 2014 15, the performance measures The annual bonus plan for 2014 15 will shares will vest, subject to continued and weightings will be as follows: be payable 60% in cash and 40% as an service, three years after award.
As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Measure Angela Spindler Dean Moore Group profitability 70% 70% Corporate objectives 20% 20% Individual objectives 10% 10% Subject to commercial sensitivity, a Long term incentive targets listed below.
The performance targets detailed description of the personal Awards granted to the executive directors are as follows: objectives and performance against them under the LTIP in 2014 will be subject to will be included in next years annual report two metrics, namely growth in adjusted on remuneration, save where these remain EPS and relative TSR measured against commercially sensitive.
a peer group of retail sector companies Annual growth in adjusted EPS in Percentage of each excess of RPI over 3 Relative TSR vs part of the award financial years peer group that will vest 60% of award 40% of award Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2.5% Below median Threshold 25% At least RPI 2.5% Median Maximum 100% At least RPI 7.5% Upper quartile For performance that is between the The retail sector peer group for the 2014 threshold and maximum levels awards awards comprises: ASOS: Carpetright: vest on a straight-line pro-rata basis Darty: Debenhams: Dixons Retail: Dunelm: with interpolation between intermediate Halfords: Home Retail Group: Inchcape: ranking positions for TSR.
J. D. Sports: Kingfisher: Marks & Spencer: Mothercare: Next: Sports Direct: and WH Smith.
Taxable benefits comprise private medical cover and car allowance.
The value of the vested shares, granted on 5 July 2010, and dividend payments is shown under the 2010 13 LTISP awards.
The performance condition attached to the award was as follows: 25% vests at median performance rising on a straight line basis to full vesting at upper quartile.
The company ranked 6th out of 20 and as a result of 85% vested.
Dean Moore and Alan White participated in this award.
Angela Spindler, however, did not as this award is prior to her joining the company.
Dean Moore's 2012 matching share award lapsed as the performance conditions for this award were not met.
Alan Whites matching share awards were pro-rated in accordance with the rules of the current deferred annual bonus scheme and his 2011 and 2012 long term share awards were pro-rated and vested based on performance measured to 31 October 2013.
Recruitment awards Angela Spindler was granted an award, over 110,169 shares on 2 August 2013 with a market value of 520,000.
Vesting of this award is subject only to continued employment over two years.
The market value of these shares has been included in the Other column.
Alan Whites pension value represents the additional benefit earned in the year excluding inflation as measured by the consumer prices index CPI multiplied by a factor of 20.
Lord Alliance has waived his non-executive directors fee.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 Remuneration Report Total pension entitlements Audited Dean Moore is a member of the Details of variable pay earned in Alan White retired on 31 October 2013 contributory defined contribution pension the year and his initial pension was calculated in scheme scheme and receives matching accordance with the rules of the N Brown contributions from the company up to a Annual bonus Audited Group Pension Fund and before any maximum of 6% of salary.
In addition, he As disclosed in last years Annual Report, commutation was 110,779 per annum, to receives an additional 6% of salary as a the committee agreed a recruitment be increased in future years in line with the cash allowance.
Contributions paid by the package which included special provisions provisions of that fund.
The benefit of Alan company into the scheme during the year for financial year 2013 2014.
For the period Whites unregistered pension arrangement, in respect of Dean Moore amounted to from Angela Spindler's appointment, calculated in accordance with its rules and 20,685 2013, 17,937.
1 July 2013, until the end of the financial before any commutation is 19,299 per year, she was eligible to receive a time annum.
pro-rated cash bonus subject to the achievement of personal objectives Angela Spindler receives a cash agreed by the chairman on behalf of supplement of 15% of salary in lieu the committee.
The table below gives details of executive directors bonsues for 2013 14.
Weighting as a percentage of maximum Performance required Payout bonus Threshold Maximum Actual % of Director Measure opportunity 0% payout 100% payout performance salary Angela Spindler Personal objectives 100% Commercially sensitive 100% 83.3% Dean Moore Group Profit 70% 97.0m 103.0m 100.1m Nil Corporate objectives 15% Commercially sensitive 50% 7.5% Personal objectives 15% Commercially sensitive 62.3% 9.3% Alan White Group Profit 70% 97.0m 103.0m 100.1m Nil Corporate objectives 15% Commercially sensitive 50% 7.5% Personal objectives 15% Commercially sensitive 55.3% 8.3% Notes: 1.
In assessing the performance achieved against the group profit performance condition the remuneration committee did not consider that the group profit achieved was supported by the underlying trading profit performance of the group.
It therefore determined that the targets for the profit bonus element had not been met.
The precise targets set for the corporate and individual objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not capable of disclosure at the present time.
Angela Spindlers 2013 14 bonus award was pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed at N Brown Group.
Angela Spindlers bonus is delivered wholly in cash.
Dean Moores 2013 14 bonus is delivered 75% in cash with 25% deferred in shares for two years and eligible for a 1:1 matching award of shares, vesting of which is subject to performance conditions.
46 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Long term share awards Audited LTISP awards performance to 5 June performance conditions for the relevant The value in the single figure table for long 2013 and in Alan Whites case, pro-rated awards are set out below: term share awards vesting in 2013 14 is 2011 and 2012 awards and pro-rated based on the TSR targets for the 2010 matching share awards.
Details of the Performance Threshold Actual Grant Condition period target Stretch target performance Vesting 2010 LTISP TSR 3 years to 5 25% vests 100% vests at 6th out of 20.
June 2013. at median upper quartile.
2011 matching EPS 2 years to 2 100% vests if N A growth in EPS 100% DABS award.
March 2013. growth in EPS greater than at least equal to growth in RPI.
2012 matching EPS 2 years to 1 100% vests if N A growth in EPS 0% DABS award.
March 2014. growth in EPS below growth at least equal to in RPI.
Alan Whites TSR 8 July 2011 to 25% vests 100% vests at 6th out of 20.
85% 2011 LTISP 31 October at median upper quartile.
Alan Whites TSR 28 June 2012 25% vests 100% vests at 6th out of 20.
85% 2012 LTISP to 31 October at median upper quartile.
Alan Whites EPS 4 March 2012 N A N A N A 100% 2012 matching to 31 October DABS award.
Alan Whites EPS 3 March 2013 N A N A N A 100% 2013 matching to 31 October DABS award.
Dean Moore and Alan White participated in the LTISP and received matching share awards under the current deferred annual bonus scheme.
Alan Whites 2011 and 2012 LTISP awards have been pro-rated to 31 October 2013.
These awards were prior to Angela Spindler joining the company.
Alan Whites 2012 and 2013 matching share awards were pro-rated by time under the rules of the plan.
Dean Moores 2012 matching share award lapsed as the performance conditions for this award were not met.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 Remuneration Report Summary of awards granted in 2013 14 Audited The table below provides details of the long-term incentive awards granted to executive directors during the year.
Share Type of % of Number of price at Performance Threshold Stretch Executive award Condition salary Face value shares grant Period target target Recruitment None 100% 520,000 110,169 472.0p award.
Recruitment Strategic 200% 1,040,000 220,338 472.0p 3 years to July Targets are commercially award.
EPS growth EPS growth Angela compounded compounded Spindler TSR: 3 years to annually annually June 2016. greater greater than than 5%.
TSR: 25% TSR: 100% vests at vests at median upper performance.
Dean Deferred EPS 15.2% 51,483 11,107 463.5p 2 financial Growth in Growth in Moore share bonus years to EPS must at EPS must at least equal matching February 2015. least equal award.
Alan White Deferred EPS 17.1% 91,253 19,687 463.5p 2 financial Growth in Growth in share bonus years to EPS must at EPS must at matching February 2015. least equal least equal award.
The LTISP award share price at grant is the average share price over the three business days at the start of the performance period.
The share price used to calculate Angela Spindlers recruitment awards was the average of the middle market price of a share for 1 July, 2 July and 3 July 2013.
48 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report On an exceptional basis, and only to the The specific strategic targets are The recruitment awards described above extent necessary to compensate for commercially sensitive but include the were granted pursuant to the exemption awards which were forfeited as a result following: from the need for prior shareholder of taking up her appointment with the Further development of the retail approval contained in Listing Rule 9.4.
2. company, Angela Spindler was granted space strategy: The awards are non-pensionable and two one-off share awards as detailed in Development and delivery of segmented non-transferable other than on death.
the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
marketing strategy and multi-channel The committee considered that the Vesting of the first, over shares worth offering including international: awards were necessary to facilitate Angela 520,000 at the time of grant, is subject to Improving the impact and effectiveness Spindlers recruitment as chief executive.
employment conditions over two years.
of customer insight through access to The value of this award is included in the and analysis of big data: Summary of awards Audited single figure for 2013 14.
The second, over Delivery of our systems infrastructure The table below summarises each of shares worth 1,040,000 at the time of programme.
the executive directors long-term share grant is also subject to the achievement awards and the changes that have taken of strategic objectives measured over a place in the year.
Matching shares could be earned growth in RPI over the deferral period.
Under its terms, subject to employment conditions and The matching element of the deferred executive directors excluding Angela were subject to a financial performance annual bonus scheme will operate for the Spindler invest up to 25% of their base condition requiring that growth in the last time in respect of the finance directors salary into shares and defer receipt for two company's EPS must at least equal the bonus outcome for 2013 14.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 Remuneration Report Directors shareholdings Audited company shares equal in value at the time The beneficial interests of directors who It is the boards policy that executive of acquisition to 200% and 100% of their served during the year, together with those directors build up and retain a minimum base salary respectively and to have met of their families, in the shares of the shareholding in the company.
Under these this guideline within 5 years of company are as follows: guidelines the chief executive and the appointment.
finance director are expected to hold Value of shares counting towards Outstanding Outstanding guideline awards awards not holding subject to subject to Outstanding Total as at 2 March 1 March as a % Guideline performance performance share 1 March Executive 2013 2014 of salary met?
conditions conditions options 2014 Angela Spindler n a n a 372,172 110,169 482,341 Dean Moore 289,219 84,485 144% Yes 343,647 8,413 436,545 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 95,047,966 95,047,966 n a n a 95,047,966 Alan White 770,474 n a n a Andrew Higginson 82,507 86,514 n a n a 86,514 Ivan Fallon 10,000 11,425 n a n a 11,425 John McGuire 9,047 7,007 n a n a 7,007 Anna Ford n a n a Ron McMillan n a n a Fiona Laird n a n a Simon Patterson 10,000 n a n a 10,000 The directors share interests shown above Termination payments Audited adjusted so that it no longer includes the include shares held by members of the Alan White received no payments reduction for retained benefits described director's family, as required by the specifically for loss of office or in relation in the 2013 Remuneration Report was Companies Act 2006. to the cessation of his employment.
That entitlement has His pro-rated bonus and share awards since been commuted to a lump sum There have been no changes to the are included in the table on page 43. of 325,957 to be paid to him in due directors interests in shares between On retirement, the benefit calculated course, thereby extinguishing any future 1 March and the date of this report.
under the rules of a pre-existing entitlements under this arrangement.
unregistered pension arrangement 50 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration Report Performance graph and table The company is a member of this index The graph shows the companys five year and accordingly it is felt to be the most performance, measured by TSR, appropriate comparator group for this compared with the performance of the purpose.
FTSE 250 Index, also measured by TSR.
Total Shareholder Return Performance: N Brown vs FTSE 250 400 N Brown Group plc FTSE Mid-250 Index 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Feb-09 Feb-10 Feb-11 Feb-12 Feb-13 Feb-14 Financial Period Analysis of chief executives pay over 5 years Angela Alan White Spindler 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2013 2014 Total remuneration 000 2,438 3,738 2,734 1,780 2,734 1,364 Annual bonus % of maximum 96.9% 90.63% 38.7% 71.4% 15.8% 83.3% Long term share awards vesting % of maximum 100% 100% 100% 100% 85% n a N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 Total Shareholder Return rebased to 100 Remuneration Report Percentage change in the chief remuneration excluding the value of compared to that of the average for all executives remuneration any long term share awards and pension employees of the group.
The table below shows the percentage benefits receivable in the year between change in the chief executive's total the 2012 13 and 2013 14 financial years, % Change from 2012 2013 to 2013 2014 Annual Salary Benefits bonus 1 Chief Executive 2.5% -19.6% 28.5% Average of other employees 2.5% 1% -66.0% 1.
This is the average of Angela Spindler and Alan Whites total remuneration.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report, had a financial component.
Going forward in her first year as chief executive, Angela the chief executives bonus metrics will be Spindlers bonus was based on personal principally financial.
objectives, whereas employees bonuses Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the companys actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends.
2014 2013 % change Staff costs m 69.8 66.8 4.5% Dividends m 38.9 36.8 5.7% The figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Shareholder voting on the directors remuneration report at the 2013 annual general meeting Total number of votes % of votes cast For 211,068,415 98% Against 4,415,023 2% Total votes cast for and against excluding withheld votes 215,483,438 100% 1 Votes withheld 2,472,477 1% Total votes cast including withheld votes 217,955,915 100% Notes: 1.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
Approval of the directors remuneration report The directors' remuneration report was approved by the board on 23 May 2014.
Signed on behalf of the board Fiona Laird Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 52 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
