Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee The year-on-year increase in all of our KPIs as presented on 2014 was a very significant year for page 26 and 27 demonstrate how successful this first year as a JUST EAT, covering its IPO in April.
listed business has been for the Group.
The 2014 Directors During the first nine months of trading annual bonus scheme was based around two of these KPIs revenue and Underlying EBITDA as well as personal strategic as a publicly listed company, the objectives.
The weighting and achievement of these targets, Company generated a circa.
19% total along with the total bonus earned, is set out in further detail return to its shareholders from the later in this report see page 75.
Looking forward over the Placing Price to the closing price on longer term, in 2015 we plan to grant performance share awards that vest based on EPS and Total Shareholder Return based 31 December 2014 compared with performance conditions over the next three years as summarised a 0.2% return for the FTSE 250 as a on pages 64 and 65.
This aligns to our underlying commitment to whole.
As set out more fully earlier deliver sustainable, above market, returns to our shareholders.
in this Annual Report, our operating By reporting on a financial year during which the Company and financial performance remained undertook its IPO, our Remuneration Report for this year strong and provides a good platform inevitably shows a position of transition in terms of the payments for future growth.
However, recognising our new status as a listed company, we are also using the Remuneration Report to set out our future Directors Remuneration Policy which, if approved at our 2015 AGM, will apply to all payments made to our Directors for three years from that date.
Our Directors Remuneration Policy At the point of IPO the Company concluded that, as its preexisting long-term incentive arrangements did not fully vest on IPO as was the position with the majority of other IPOs in 2014, it was unnecessary to distract the IPO process by focusing on senior executive remuneration.
Instead, and as referred to in the Prospectus, the Company decided it was more appropriate for the newly appointed Remuneration Committee consisting of the independent directors appointed at IPO to undertake its own review of remuneration following the IPO with a view to putting in place a clear, robust, fair and not excessive policy to be applied for the future.
To achieve this, the Committee selected its own independent adviser, commissioned a review of both the underlying policy and the more detailed remuneration arrangements and consulted with the Companys principal shareholders.
The resulting policy is set out in the appropriate detail over the following pages, with the key points being: The overall remuneration policy is to set Executive Directors total pay by reference to but by no means solely driven by the median of data for companies with an equivalent market capitalisation market cap.
While the generally accepted main input into remuneration benchmarking is market cap, the Committee was conscious of the Companys relatively high market cap to revenue ratio and felt that some level of discount was appropriate.
Accordingly, for the three year life of this policy, it is currently envisaged 58 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements that a discount should be applied to the indicative benchmark Designing a pay structure, particularly for the first time following data of approximately 20%, which is in line with our advisers our IPO, involves various judgements.
We believe that, on behalf assessment of the typical level of discount in less mature of all shareholders, we have fulfilled our objectives of developing businesses with a high market cap to revenue ratio.
The an appropriate, robust,  and not Committee noted that not all such companies apply a discount excessive approach, by transitioning to a size-discounted market and, particularly as the Company itself matures, it may not be median positioning over two years.
appropriate to retain such a discount factor during the entire three year period or beyond.
Format of the Report and matters to be approved at our AGM The current adjusted median salary levels for the CEO The regulations governing the directors remuneration reports of and CFO are considered to be 465,000 and 320,000 listed companies require that we split our report into two respectively, which the Committee will move to in two sections: the Policy Report sets out the Companys forwardtranches with effect from January 2015 and January 2016. looking Directors Remuneration Policy which provides the The second tranche will be subject to adjustment up or appropriate level of detail of the points explained in the down based on the circumstances prevailing at the time preceding section.
The separate Implementation Report provides e. g. the Companys performance and size.
details of the payments made to Directors in 2014, as well as other required disclosures.
While the Companys benefits and pension arrangements are felt to be modest, with the latter currently capped at a 5% At our 2015 AGM, we will be holding two votes on remuneration contribution, no change is proposed.
matters: Recognising the continued growth aspirations for the a vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out Company to deliver ongoing superior returns for all in the first part of this Report: and shareholders, the below market level of benefits and sizeadjusted salaries should be offset with moderately above a vote on the remaining implementation sections of median bonus and LTIP opportunity with: this Report.
a bonus maximum for the CEO and CFO of 150% and I do hope we can rely upon your support at the AGM.
120% of salary respectively, which will now be subject to newly introduced clawback provisions to reflect On behalf of the Remuneration Committee and Board best practice: an annual long-term incentive award under the Performance Share Plan PSP which was established at IPO over shares worth 200% and 160% of salary Gwyn Burr respectively.
The first awards at this level will only be Chairman, Remuneration Committee granted in 2016, with the 2015 grants the first post-IPO 16 March 2015 set at half the policy level to further provide a smooth transition towards a market-reflective package.
To reflect emerging best practice, we are also introducing a two-year post vesting holding period into the PSP, with clawback also applying: and both plans subject to appropriately demanding performance hurdles linked to the future success of the Company.
Overall, this produces a target package consistent with the adjusted benchmark median albeit with a bias to performance-related pay through a size-adjusted market salary, and below market benefits which are offset by a moderately higher performance-related pay opportunity.
We are also increasing our share ownership guidelines for the Executive Directors to 400% of salary from the current 200%.
com 59 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this section of the Remuneration Report will take effect for all payments made to Directors from the date of the AGM, which is expected to be held on 13 May 2015.
The policy has been developed mindful of the new Corporate Governance Code and is felt to be appropriate to support the long-term success of the Company while ensuring that it does not promote inappropriate risk-taking.
Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 for information purposes: not part of the Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Directors Remuneration Policy Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed each year by the Committee.
The Executive Directors salaries will not be N A Base salaries from Admission were as This is the core element of pay and reflects the individuals role increased so as to exceed the median for the follows: 300,000 for David Buttress, and position within the Group with some adjustment to reflect The Committee does not strictly follow data but uses the equivalent roles in companies listed on the and 250,000 for Mike Wroe.
median position as a reference point in considering, in its London Stock Exchange with a market With effect from 1 January 2015, judgement, the appropriate level of salary having regard to capitalisation ranking which places them within these were increased to 420,000 and other relevant factors including corporate and individual 30 above and 30 below that of the Company at 300,000 respectively.
performance and any changes in an individuals role and or about the time when the Committee obtains responsibilities.
In practice, the Company Subject to reviewing the benchmark envisages, for the three-year life of this policy, data in light of circumstances Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
further discounting the data by 20% to reflect prevailing at the time, these will the Companys high market cap to revenue ratio further increase with effect from but reserves the right not to apply such discount 1 January 2016 to 465,000 and should it consider that to be necessary to retain 320,000 respectively which will or recruit appropriate executives.
broadly position them at the adjusted i. e. discounted to reflect the Once a suitable market level is achieved, Companys relatively high ratio of further increases would not normally be market cap to revenue median increased by more than the average awarded against listed companies of an to staff generally.
1, 2 Benefits The Executive Directors are reimbursed for their commuting It is not possible to prescribe the likely change in N A Details of the benefits received by To provide benefits valued by recipients.
costs and associated tax liabilities up to a value of 12,000. the cost of insured benefits or the cost of some Executive Directors are set out on Additionally, they receive a car allowance or company car in the of the other reported benefits year-to-year, but page 75. case of the CEO, private medical cover and insurance benefits.
the provision of benefits will operate within an There is no intention to introduce The Committee reserves discretion to introduce new benefits annual limit of 100,000 plus a further 100% of additional benefits in 2015. where it concludes that it is appropriate to do so, having regard base salary in the case of relocations and to the particular circumstances and to market practice.
Where appropriate, the Company will meet certain costs The Committee will monitor the costs of benefits relating to Executive Director relocations and if necessary in practice and will ensure that the overall costs expatriate benefits.
do not increase by more than the Committee considers appropriate in all the circumstances.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for by the Company or another and business travel for Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors and the Chairman and exceptionally their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Deemed benefits from JSOP participation Payments to any Director in respect of the deemed cost of interest on loans relating to participation in the JSOP and, if relevant, the writing off of any such loans are benefits within the scope of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The value of any such amounts is in addition to the maximum amounts stated in the table above for Benefits for Executive Directors and for Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees.
60 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this section of the Remuneration Report will take effect for all payments made to Directors from the date of the AGM, which is expected to be held on 13 May 2015.
com 61 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 for information purposes: not part of the Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Directors Remuneration Policy Pension Executive Directors can receive pension contributions to The maximum employers contribution is limited N A Contributions rates for Executive To provide retirement benefits.
personal pension arrangements or the equivalent amount can to up to 10% of base salary, although it is not Directors are 5% of salary which is be paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions currently anticipated that this will increase above not envisaged to change during the reduced for the impact of employers NICs.
the current 5% level for the three-year life of life of this policy.
Annual Bonus Plan Annual Bonus Plan levels and the appropriateness of measures The maximum level of Annual Bonus Plan The performance measures applied The proposed performance measures To motivate executives and incentivise delivery of performance are reviewed annually at the commencement of each financial outcomes is 150% of base salary p. a. for the may be financial or non-financial and and targets for the financial year to over a one-year operating cycle, focusing on the short year to ensure they continue to support our strategy.
CEO and 120% for any other Executive Director corporate, divisional or individual and 31 December 2015 will be based on a medium-term elements of our strategic aims.
for the duration of this policy.
in such proportions as the Committee mix of Group financial measures Once set, performance measures and targets will generally considers appropriate.
currently Revenue 40% weighting remain unchanged for the year, except to reflect events such as and PBT 40% weighting, as well as corporate acquisitions or other major transactions where the Attaining the threshold level of the achievement of personal strategic Committee considers it to be necessary in its opinion to make performance for any measure will not objectives 20% weighting.
produce a pay-out of more than 25% Committee selected these of the maximum portion of overall performance measures for the Annual Annual Bonus Plan outcomes are paid in cash following the Annual Bonus attributable to that Bonus Plan for 2015 as they represent determination of achievement against performance measures measure, with a sliding scale to full a balanced approach to recognising and targets.
The Committee will keep under review whether it is appropriate However, the Annual Bonus Plan Given the competitive nature of the for bonuses to be partly deferred into shares.
Where such remains a discretionary arrangement Companys sector, the specific arrangements are operated, individuals would be able to receive and the Committee retains a standard performance targets for the Annual a dividend equivalent in cash or shares equal to the value of power to apply its judgement to Bonus Plan are considered to be dividends which would have accrued during the vesting period.
adjust the outcome of the Annual commercially sensitive and Bonus Plan for any performance accordingly are not disclosed.
The Clawback provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan as measure from zero to any cap Committee currently intends to explained in more detail in the notes to the policy table.
should it consider that to disclose the financial e. g. Revenue be appropriate.
and PBT performance targets for the year ended 31 December 2015 on a retrospective basis in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, and will consider whether the personal strategic targets may also be disclosed.
62 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 for information purposes: not part of the Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Directors Remuneration Policy Pension Executive Directors can receive pension contributions to The maximum employers contribution is limited N A Contributions rates for Executive To provide retirement benefits.
com 63 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 for information purposes: not part of the Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Directors Remuneration Policy 3 Long-Term incentives Awards under the PSP may be granted as nil-cost options, The PSP allows for awards over shares with a The Committee may set such Annual award levels are proposed at To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance conditional awards and forfeitable shares which vest to the maximum value as at the date of award of 200% performance conditions on PSP 200% and 160% of base salary for over the long term, and to promote alignment with extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of of base salary per financial year, which may be awards as it considers appropriate the CEO and CFO respectively.
shareholders interests, the Group intends to operate the at least three years.
increased to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
whether financial or non-financial For 2015 only, the awards will be Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Company also has the and whether corporate, divisional made at half this level.
ability to grant market value options under an Employee Share Under the PSP plan rules, vested awards may also be settled The ESOS allows for market value options or individual.
Option Scheme ESOS, although it is not currently intended in cash.
over shares with a maximum value as at the that Executive Directors will receive awards under the ESOS.
date of award of 300% of base salary per Once set, performance measures The PSP rules allow that the number of shares subject to vested financial year, which may be increased to and targets will generally remain PSP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends 400% in exceptional circumstances.
unaltered unless events occur which, that would have been paid in respect of any ex-dividend dates in the Committees opinion, make it falling between the grant of awards and the expiry of any The Committee expressly reserves discretion to appropriate to alter the performance vesting and holding period for awards.
make such awards as it considers appropriate conditions in such manner as the within these limits although, as stated above, it Committee thinks fit.
Vested awards will be subject to a two-year holding period is not currently intended that Executive Directors during which time awards may not be exercised or released but will receive awards under the ESOS.
Performance periods may be over are no longer contingent on future employment.
such periods as the Committee selects at grant, which will not Clawback provisions apply to PSP awards and are explained in normally be less than but may be more detail in the notes to the policy table.
The Company will honour the vesting of all awards granted No more than 20% of awards vest for under previous policies in accordance with the terms of such attaining the threshold level of awards: in particular outstanding JSOP awards and related performance conditions.
loans will continue on their terms.
Performance conditions for PSP awards in 2015 for information and not part of the Directors Remuneration Policy The performance measures and targets for the PSP awards to be made in 2015 will be based on adjusted EPS and relative TSR performance, summarised as follows: 2017 EPS adjusted as set out below, 50% of award % of that part of the award that vests 10.5 pence or more 100% Between 8.5 pence and 10.5 pence Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 8.5 pence 20% Less than 8.5 pence 0% 64 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 for information purposes: not part of the Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Directors Remuneration Policy 3 Long-Term incentives Awards under the PSP may be granted as nil-cost options, The PSP allows for awards over shares with a The Committee may set such Annual award levels are proposed at To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance conditional awards and forfeitable shares which vest to the maximum value as at the date of award of 200% performance conditions on PSP 200% and 160% of base salary for over the long term, and to promote alignment with extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of of base salary per financial year, which may be awards as it considers appropriate the CEO and CFO respectively.
Performance conditions for PSP awards in 2015 for information and not part of the Directors Remuneration Policy The performance measures and targets for the PSP awards to be made in 2015 will be based on adjusted EPS and relative TSR performance, summarised as follows: 2017 EPS adjusted as set out below, 50% of award % of that part of the award that vests TSR 50% of award relative to the constituents, as at the 1 January prior to grant, of the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts % of that part of the award that vests 10.5 pence or more 100% Upper quintile or more 100% Between 8.5 pence and 10.5 pence Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 20% and 100% Between median and upper quintile Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 8.5 pence 20% Median 20% Less than 8.5 pence 0% Below median 0% Performance conditions will be measured over three financial years to 31 December 2017.
The EPS condition looks at the EPS achieved in the final year only based on the reported fully diluted EPS subject to such adjustments as the Committee considers appropriate and TSR compares the TSR over the three months prior to the start of the financial year in which the grant is made with the three months prior to the end of the third financial year.
The Committee selected these performance conditions as they provide a suitable balance between absolute growth through EPS and relative out-performance through TSR which are key measures of success for the Company.
com 65 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Executive Directors Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Share ownership guidelines Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the ordinary shares 400% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
N A To further align the interests of Executive Directors vesting under all share plans, after any disposals for the payment of with those of shareholders.
applicable taxes, until they have achieved the required level of The Committee reserves the power to amend but not reduce shareholding currently 400% of salary.
these levels in future years.
All-employee share plans Company-operated Sharesave scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
The maximum participation levels for all-employee share plans Consistent with normal practice, such awards are not subject to To encourage share ownership by employees, will be the limits for such plans set by HMRC from time to time.
thereby allowing them to share in the long-term These are all-employee share plans established under HMRC taxsuccess of the Group and align their interests with advantaged regimes and follow the usual form for such plans.
Executive Directors are able to participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as other Group employees.
Clawback Clawback being the ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts as a debt within two years of payment provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP in certain circumstances e. g. misstatement of accounts, miscalculation of vesting payouts and an act omission that justifies summary dismissal for misconduct which has no time limit.
Stating maximum amounts for the remuneration policy The Directors Remuneration Report regulations and related Investor guidance encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each element of the Directors Remuneration Policy will operate.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Directors Remuneration Policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors from the policy on remuneration of other employees While the appropriate benchmarks vary by role, the Company seeks to apply the philosophy behind this policy across the Company as a whole.
Where JUST EATs pay policy for Directors differs from its pay policies for groups of employees, this reflects the appropriate market rate position for the relevant roles.
The Company takes into account pay levels, bonus opportunity and share awards applied across the Group as a whole when setting the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
Variations in share capital The LTIP and ESOS contain standard provisions that allow for the adjustment of awards to take account of variations in share capital, demergers, special dividends, etc.
66 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Executive Directors Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Share ownership guidelines Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the ordinary shares 400% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
com 67 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures for information purposes: not part of the Directors Remuneration Policy 1, 2 Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees paid to the Chairman and to Non-Executive Directors Fees are paid monthly in cash.
N A The Chairman currently receives a fee of 100,000.
To enable the Company to recruit and retain a Chairman and aim to be competitive with other fully-listed companies of Non-executive Directors of the highest calibre, at the equivalent size and complexity.
The aggregate fees and any A breakdown of Non-executive Directors current annual fees is as appropriate cost.
benefits of the Chairman and the provided below.
Senior The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are determined Non-Executive Directors will not Committee independent Base fee chair fee director fee Total by the Board.
The fees payable to the Chairman are determined exceed the limit from time to by the Remuneration Committee.
time prescribed within the Andrew Griffith 50,000 7,500 5,000 62,500 Companys Articles of Association All fees will be subject to periodic review.
For Non-Executive for such fees currently 2 million Gwyn Burr 50,000 7,500 57,500 Directors the fee structures may involve separate fees for p. a. in aggregate.
Henri Moissinac 50,000 50,000 chairing or for membership of Board committees.
Any increases actually made will Non-Executive Directors will not participate in any new cash or be appropriately disclosed.
As each of the independent Non-Executive Directors was appointed in 2014, a full annual fee has not been earned during the year.
share incentive arrangements from Admission.
The base fee for Non-Executive Directors was increased from 45,000 No benefits are envisaged for the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman but the Company reserves the right to effective from 1 January 2015.
The fee levels remain in line with those of peer companies.
provide benefits including travel and office support within the prescribed limits.
Fee levels will remain subject to periodic review throughout the term of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
68 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Implementation of policy 2015 Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures for information purposes: not part of the Directors Remuneration Policy 1, 2 Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees paid to the Chairman and to Non-Executive Directors Fees are paid monthly in cash.
com 69 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Service contracts Executive Directors The Committees policy is that each Executive Directors service agreement should be of indefinite duration, subject to termination by the Company on 12 months notice or 6 months notice by the individual.
The service agreements of all Executive Directors comply with that policy.
The service agreements reserve the right for the Company to make a payment in lieu of notice to an Executive Director for the amount of 1.2 and 1.1 times for the CEO and CFO respectively of base salary for the notice period if notice is served on or after 1 January 2015.
The small premium to base salary reflects the Companys estimate of fixed benefits costs.
Such sums may be paid in instalments and would cease or be reduced if the individual finds an alternative role.
Contracts do not contain change of control provisions but do contain provisions allowing for summary termination.
The Committee reserves flexibility, for an appropriate candidate in exceptional circumstances only, to introduce a longer initial notice period of up to two years reducing over time.
The date of each Executive Directors contract is: Contract date David Buttress 8 April 2014 Mike Wroe 8 April 2014 The service agreements of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM including during the fifteen minutes preceding this.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Director and the Chairman is engaged for an initial period of two years, subject to annual renewal at the AGM.
For Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, these engagements can be terminated by either party on three months notice.
The Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in new awards under the Companys incentive plans from Admission, are not entitled to any pension benefits and are not entitled to any payment in compensation for early termination of their appointment beyond the three months notice referred to above.
For the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director the effective date of their latest letter of appointment is: Name Date of Appointment Term John Hughes CBE 15 December 2011 2 years Benjamin Holmes 10 July 2009 2 years 1 Michael Risman 12 March 2014 2 years Frederic Coorevits 10 July 2009 2 years Andrew Griffith 12 March 2014 2 years Gwyn Burr 12 March 2014 2 years Henri Moissinac 1 August 2014 2 years The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM including during the fifteen minutes preceding this.
1 Mr. Risman also acted as the primary representative of the former corporate director of the Company, Vitruvian Directors I Limited, from April 2012 to March 2014.
70 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Recruitment Remuneration Policy The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver our strategic aims.
However, as an external recruitment at director level has not yet taken place, the preparation of this policy is challenging as it provides for an event which has not been the Companys practice.
In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new For external candidates, it may be necessary to make Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will additional awards in connection with the recruitment to be to apply the general policy for Executive Directors as set buy-out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving a out above and structure a package in accordance with that previous employer.
For the avoidance of doubt, buy-out policy.
Consistent with the Directors Remuneration Report awards are not subject to a formal cap.
Regulations, the caps contained within the policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although the Committee would For any buy-outs the Company will not pay more than is, in not envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
the view of the Committee, necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under The Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives will operate the terms of the existing Annual Bonus Plan and long-term including the maximum award levels as detailed in the incentives.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to general policy in relation to any newly appointed Executive make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than Director.
Any recruitment-related long-term incentive awards the existing Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives.
which are not buy-outs will be subject to the limits as stated in the general policy e. g. 300% in the PSP.
Details of any All buy-outs, whether under the Annual Bonus Plan, long-term recruitment-related awards will be appropriately disclosed.
incentives or otherwise, will take account of the service obligations and performance requirements for any For an internal appointment, any variable pay element remuneration relinquished by the individual when leaving a awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its previous employer.
The Committee will seek to make buy-outs original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable requirements as appropriate.
in respect of service and performance.
However, the Committee may choose to relax this requirement in certain For external and internal appointments, the Committee may cases such as where the service and or performance agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses requirements are materially completed, or where such factors as it considers appropriate.
are, in the view of the Committee, reflected in some other way, such as a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited and where the Committee considers it to be in the interests of shareholders.
A new Non-Executive Director would be recruited on the terms explained above in respect of the main policy for such Directors.
com 71 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Termination Policy Summary It is appropriate for the Committee to consider treatments on a termination having regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination see Service Contracts above and any treatments that the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP plans.
The potential treatments on termination under these plans are summarised in the table below.
If a leaver is deemed to be a good If a leaver is deemed to be a bad leaver: for example, leaving through leaver: for example, leaving for death or otherwise at the discretion disciplinary reasons or to join a Other exceptional cases: Incentives of the Committee competitor e. g. change in control Annual Bonus Plan Committee has discretion to No awards made.
Committee has discretion to determine Annual Bonus determine Annual Bonus.
which will typically be limited to the period actually worked.
Performance Share Plan Will receive a pro-rated award All awards will normally lapse.
Will receive a pro-rated award subject to the application of subject to the application of the performance conditions at the performance conditions at the end of the normal the date of the event, subject performance period.
to standard Committee discretions to vary time Committee retains standard pro-rating.
discretions to either vary time pro-rating or to accelerate vesting and release any holding period to the earlier date of cessation determining the performance conditions at that time.
Under the Joint Share Ownership Plan, good leavers will retain the rights to any vested portions of their awards for a period and bad leavers will have their awards repurchased at cost.
SIP and Sharesave provides treatments for leavers in line with HMRC rules for such plans.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of the termination of an Executive Director, the Company may pay a contribution towards that individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointments The Companys policy is to permit an Executive Director to serve as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere when this does not conflict with the individuals duties to the Company, and where an Executive Director takes such a role, they will be entitled to retain any fees which they earn from that appointment.
No Executive Director currently holds such an appointment.
72 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Statement of consideration of employment conditions Minimum Consists of base salary, benefits and elsewhere in the Group pension.
Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are taken into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2015.
The Committee receives regular updates on overall pay and Benefits measured as benefits paid in the conditions in the Group, including but not limited to changes in year ending 31 December 2014 as set out in base pay and any staff bonus pools in operation.
There is also the single total figure table.
oversight of the all-employee share schemes which Executive Directors and all other Group employees can participate in on the Pension measured as the defined same terms and conditions.
contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions of 5% of salary.
Reflecting standard practice, the Company did not consult with 000 Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed employees in drawing up this Remuneration Report.
David Buttress 420 74 21 515 Statement of consideration of shareholder views Michael Wroe 300 38 15 353 The 2015 AGM is the first occasion on which the Company will seek the support of its shareholders for matters relating to the Target Based on what the director would receive if remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Committee will ensure performance was on-target excl.
share price that it considers all of the feedback which it receives from its appreciation and dividends : shareholders during this process.
Annual Bonus: consists of the on-target Illustrations of application of remuneration policy bonus of 50% of maximum opportunity.
2,000,000 PSP: consists of the threshold level of LTIP 2016 Grant Level vesting 20% vesting.
LTIP 2015 Grant Level 1,750,000 Annual Bonus Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration Total Fixed Remuneration 1,500,000 receivable excl.
share price appreciation 27.8% and dividends : 1,250,000 Annual Bonus: consists of maximum bonus 41.7% of 150% of base salary for the CEO and 1,000,000 120% for the CFO.
25.9% 9.8% 750,000 36.6% PSP: consists of the face value of awards 8.6% 38.8% 100% of salary for the CEO and 80% for the 500,000 CFO although the policy in subsequent years 32.4% 100% 53.6% 30.5% 100% will be two times this level and so these 250,000 100% 58.9% 35.3% grant levels are also indicated in the charts.
0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO CFO The charts above aim to show how the remuneration policy for Executive Directors is applied using the following assumptions, as detailed to the right.
com 73 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Implementation Report Single total figure table audited The remuneration for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company who performed qualifying services during the year is detailed below.
With the exception of the Chairman, John Hughes, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration other than their annual fee during the financial year.
As the Group listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 and all of the 2013 remuneration relates to when JUST EAT was a privately-owned Group.
2 Non-Executive director appointed with effect from 1 August 2014.
3 The bonus numbers above include the Executive Director annual bonus scheme and cash bonuses paid to cover the tax arising on the reimbursement of taxable expenses relating to ordinary commuting.
4 The long-term incentives column includes interests granted under the 2014 JSOP tranche 2.
These interests have performance conditions attached to vesting, along with continued employment, as detailed within the JSOP section.
These interests have been included in the single total figure table in the year in which the performance condition is measured and valued at the average share price during the last quarter of 2014, which was determined to be 3.06, less the hurdle price.
5 The pension numbers represent employer contributions to the defined contribution pension plan which was introduced during 2014.
6 The Other column includes interests granted under the 2014 JSOP tranche 1.
This interest has no performance conditions other than continued employment and is therefore reported at the date of grant.
The interest has been valued at the share price at the date of grant as agreed with HMRC, less the hurdle price.
For the year ended 31 December 2013: Salary Taxable Bonus Total 3 4 and fees benefits scheme Pension Other remuneration John Hughes 53,333 10,853 64,186 1 David Buttress 230,684 20,373 116,162 367,219 2 Mike Wroe 167,684 12,501 56,862 237,047 1 David Buttress was formally appointed as CEO on 9 July 2013, although he was acting CEO prior to this.
His remuneration for the 12 months ended 31 December 2013 has been included above in order to provide comparative data to his 2014 remuneration.
2 Mike Wroe was formally appointed to the Board on 17 October 2013.
3 The bonus numbers above include the Executive Director annual bonus scheme.
4 The Other column includes interests granted under the JSOP 2013.
The interest has been valued at the share price at the date of grant as agreed with HMRC, less the hurdle price, which in this instance were the same.
The three non-independent Non-Executive directors, Frederic Coorevits, Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman, received no remuneration during 2014 or 2013.
Laurel Bowden received no remuneration for her services prior to stepping down from the Board in October 2014.
74 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Taxable benefits audited Until the Joint Ownership Awards are sold, the Company makes annual payments to participants, the net amount of which will reimburse the participants for the annual income tax charge that arises on such proportion of the outstanding beneficial loan amount as is attributable to the remaining jointly-owned shares.
The annual payment made to the Directors and the taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amount are included within the taxable benefits column in the single total figure table.
The taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amounts is detailed below: Taxable benefit arising on the JSOP loans 2014 2013 John Hughes 14,358 6,387 David Buttress 43,199 8,294 Mike Wroe 22,410 5,858 Further detail on the Joint Ownership Awards is provided on page 76.
The Executive Directors are reimbursed for commuting costs and David Buttress receives a car allowance of 7,900 per annum.
The Executive Directors are non-contributory members of the Companys private health scheme which provides cover for them and their immediate family currently defined as their spouse partner and dependant children aged under 21.
Although not a taxable benefit, the Executive Directors participate in the Companys life assurance scheme which pays their dependants a sum equal to four times salary if they die during their term of employment by the Company.
Short-term incentives audited Bonus scheme During the year, the Remuneration Committee decided bonuses were payable based on certain personal strategic and financial performance targets which had been agreed at the start of the year.
David Buttress Mike Wroe Total bonus Total bonus Weighting as % achieved earned Weighting as % achieved earned % of bonus in 2014 % of bonus in 2014 Personal strategic targets 40% 100% 120,000 40% 100% 56,000 Financial targets Revenue targets 32.5% 100% 97,500 32.5% 100% 45,500 Underlying EBITDA targets 27.5% 100% 82,500 27.5% 100% 38,500 Total bonus achieved 100% 300,000 100% 140,000 This element of Executive bonus is linked to a Group KPI.
The specific performance targets for the Annual Bonus Plan for 2014 are considered to be commercially sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed.
However, following the conclusion of the year ended 31 December 2015, the Committee will disclose the financial performance targets for 2015 on a retrospective basis and will consider whether it is feasible to disclose the personal strategic targets.
com 75 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Long-term incentives and Other audited Awards granted under long-term incentive plans with performance conditions attached are included in the single total figure table within the long-term incentive column in the year in which performance conditions are measured.
Awards granted under long-term incentive plans with no performance conditions other than continued employment are included in the single total figure table within the Other column in the year they are granted.
Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP Joint ownership awards have been made under the JSOP consisting of a joint interest in the shares subject to certain terms and conditions.
The Ordinary Shares subject to Joint Ownership Awards are already in issue and are held by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Under the terms, the participants interest in the jointly-owned shares entitles the participants to share in the proceeds of sale of the jointly-owned shares up to the aggregate of the participants subscription amount and the value in excess of a set hurdle.
Each participant was required to pay a subscription amount for the jointly-owned shares equal to the market value of the participants interest as determined by HMRC.
In accordance with the terms of the JSOP, such amount was left outstanding as a liability to the Company.
As a preparatory step to Admission, the Company called all outstanding subscriptions amounts on the jointly-owned shares to be paid up in full.
In order to facilitate this, the Company has made a loan to the Chairman, Executive Directors and other participants, the amount of which was equal to their outstanding subscription.
The loans become due for repayment at the latest by the date on which the jointly owned shares are disposed of and termination of continued employment.
When the shares vest, if the value of the participants interest is less than the outstanding beneficial loan amount, the balance remaining on the loan once the participants interest has been deducted is no longer payable.
As detailed in the taxable benefits section on page 75, the Company makes annual payments to reimburse participants for the income tax charge that arises on the outstanding beneficial loan amount each year.
The Joint ownership awards vest over time, with 25% on the specified date established on grant and then equally on a quarterly or monthly basis until becoming fully vested on the fourth anniversary of the vest start date.
Once vested, the participant can require the shares subject to the Joint ownership award to be sold and the net amount they will receive will equal the proportion of the sale proceeds that exceed the hurdle amount for their shareholding.
76 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements The 2014 JSOP tranches have the following vesting conditions: Amount vesting if minimum performance 1 Scheme Vesting period Vesting performance conditions achieved 2014 JSOP tranche 1 25% one year after the vesting start date and None 100% then equally on a monthly basis for remaining three years 2014 JSOP tranche 2 As above Underlying EBITDA must be greater than 13.5 100% million for the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 JSOP tranche 3 As above Underlying EBITDA must be greater than 15.5 100% million for the year ended 31 December 2015 1 Underlying EBITDA is defined as excluding any costs of fundraising including an IPO and excluding any costs associated with acquisitions.
Dividends payable on the jointly-owned shares are split between the participant and the Employee Benefit Trust, in proportion to the value of their respective interests at such time.
There are currently no dividends accrued.
com 77 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Enterprise Management Incentive EMI Share Option Plans audited Under the terms of the EMI Schemes, the Executive Directors as detailed below have options to purchase shares in the Company.
Options are no longer being granted under this scheme and no grants were made during 2014.
All remaining options held by Executive Directors were exercised during 2014.
Share options Share options at Number at Exercise price 31 December vested but Number 31 December 2013 unexercised exercised 2014 David Buttress 0.0463 677,700 677,700 The EMI options exercised during the year ended 31 December 2014 were done so prior to the IPO and as such, the market value of the shares at the date of exercise is not easily ascertainable.
Assuming the share price at date of exercise was equal to the share price at IPO, the gain made on exercise of the EMI options in the year would have been 1,730,645.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited The table below details for each Executive Director and the Chairman, the total number of Directors interests in shares at 31 December 2014.
There were no performance measures attached to the EMI share options or shares held.
There are no shareholdings or share interests held by the Non-Executive Directors.
Number of shares over which interest is held JSOP EMI share options With performance conditions Without performance conditions Without performance conditions Vested but Exercised Vested but Exercised Vested but Exercised Unvested unexercised during the year Unvested unexercised during the year Unvested unexercised during the year John Hughes 704,700 1,071,333 934,767 506,250 David Buttress 1,839,375 958,014 881,361 677,700 Mike Wroe 892,350 756,540 856,710 Number of Total of all 1 shares held interests held Total John Hughes 135,000 2,710,800 2,845,800 David Buttress 2,216,511 3,678,750 5,895,261 Mike Wroe 1,107,945 2,505,600 3,613,545 1 Includes those unvested and vested but unexercised interests.
The shareholdings and awards set out above include those held by Directors and their respective connected persons.
Under share ownership guidelines implemented by the Remuneration Committee, Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding excluding shares held conditionally under any incentive arrangements but including a number of shares to the value of any vested and exercisable interest under the Companys Joint Share Ownership Plan equivalent to at least 400% of base salary.
At the 2014 year end, the Executive Directors complied with this requirement.
78 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Performance graph and CEO remuneration table unaudited The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in JUST EAT plcs shares from its listing in April 2014 to the end of the period, compared with a 100 investment in the FTSE 250 Index over the same period.
The FTSE 250 Index was chosen as a comparator because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since April 2014 and therefore the Companys TSR does not include a dividend amount.
Long-term incentive vesting Single figure of total Annual bonus pay-out rates against maximum remuneration against maximum % opportunity % 2014 3,824,465 100% 100% As the Group listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 remuneration relates to when JUST EAT was a privately owned group.
Percentage change in remuneration of Director undertaking the role of CEO unaudited The below table presents the year-on-year percentage change in remuneration received by the CEO, compared with the change in remuneration received by all UK employees.
All UK employees was chosen as a suitable comparator group as this includes the UK call centre employees and excludes senior management and international employees who are on different pay structures.
Percentage increase in remuneration between 2013 and 2014 CEO All colleagues Salary and fees 24% 18% Short-term incentives 162% 113% All taxable benefits 227% The rise in taxable benefits for the CEO reflects benefits relating to the JSOP as described on page 76.
Klaus Nyengaard resigned as CEO on 31 January 2013 and David Buttress was formally appointed to the role of CEO on 9 July 2013.
In order to calculate the percentage increase in CEO remuneration, the remuneration for Klaus Nyengaard for the one month he was in position in 2013 has been included and 11 months of the 2013 remuneration for David Buttress.
As the Group listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 and all of the 2013 remuneration relate to when JUST EAT was a privately owned group.
com 79 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited The table below details the change in total employee pay between 2013 and 2014 as detailed in note 9 of the financial statements.
In line with our strategic plans, earnings have been retained for growth and development of the business and therefore no dividends have been paid since the one paid in April 2014 prior to the IPO as part of a capital restructuring.
Underlying EBITDA and Revenue have been used as comparative measures as these KPIs are used by the Directors to measure performance.
These measures have been calculated in line with those in the audited financial statements.
2014 2013 % change m m Total gross employee pay 44% 52.0 36.1 Underlying EBITDA 131% 32.6 14.1 Revenue 62% 157.0 96.8 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee during the year: Gwyn Burr, Chairman: Andrew Griffith: and Henri Moissinac.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT were selected by the Committee last year as their remuneration advisers, after a tender and presentation process involving four leading firms.
FIT exclusively advise the Committee and do not provide any other advice to the Group nor do they advise management.
This has, the Committee believes, ensured their objectivity and independence.
FIT are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and comply with its voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
FIT have provided advice on the benchmarking and structuring of executive and senior management remuneration together with assistance in the Committees consultations with shareholders and the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy and Report.
Fees payable to FIT in respect of their work for the year totalled 48,500.
Statement of voting at general meeting As the Company listed in April 2014, there has not yet been an Annual General Meeting AGM where a resolution to pass each of the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Remuneration Report has been put forward for voting.
In next years Annual Report this section will have the voting breakdown of those two resolutions from this years AGM.
80 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
