Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee is alert to the challenges framing remuneration practices that promote the success of theCompany, whilst ensuring that rewards are proportionate.
Dear fellow shareholder, Report of the Remuneration On behalf of the Remuneration Committee and the Board, Committee for the year I am pleased to present the Companys Remuneration Report ended 31 December 2014 for the 2014financial year.
The report is in two parts.
First is the Directors Remuneration PolicyReport, containing a summary of the Policy Report which wasadopted by shareholders at last years Annual General Meeting AGM with the expectation being that it would last for three years.
Thesecond part is the Annual Report on Remuneration ARR, detailing how we applied the policy during 2014.
The ARR will be thesubject of an advisory vote at the AGM on 22 April 2015.
Executive remuneration remains of great interest to shareholders, employees and society at large.
The Remuneration Committee is alert to the challenge of framing remuneration practices that promote the success of the Company, while ensuring that rewards are proportionate.
These practices must be supported by all Croda employees and, indeed, all stakeholders in the Companys success.
We therefore welcome the revised guidance from the Financial Reporting Council which emphasises that a properly structured remuneration policys principal aim is the long term success of a company.
We believe our policy is flexible enough to respond to both emerging best practice and changing conditions.
However, it is not set in stone.
During 2015 the Committee will examine whether the policy needs tobe adjusted to further promote the Companys interests and reputation, while ensuring it continues to reinforce the Croda way ofdoing things.
Performance and Reward for 2014 As a natural consequence of the importance we place on customer intimacy and in recognition of the fact that many of our customers are now multinational, we have moved elements of our core commercial sector from a regional to a global organisational structure.
Our new structure will enable us to meet customers needs, as well as helping us to develop more strategic management focus across each of themarkets in which we operate.
To support these changes, there have been changes to key personnel and to the responsibilities of certain individuals.
In considering how our business performance translated into reward, we should distinguish between the annual bonus and long term incentives.
No annual bonus was earned for 2014 performance against the challenging targets set.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
