Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder I took over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee on 30 July 2014 when the previous chairman, Toby Hayward, assumed his new responsibilities as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
I am, therefore, presenting to you, on behalf of the Board, the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The year was dominated by two sets of circumstances for the Company, both of which are described in the Chairmans and Chief Executives statement pages 10 to 13.
Firstly, the Board investigation of the receipt of unauthorised payments by Messrs Shahenshah CEO and Ullah COO led to their suspension and subsequent dismissal on 13 October 2014, along with two other senior executives who were not Iain McLaren Directors of the Company.
The previous Senior Non-Executive Remuneration Director, Toby Hayward, was appointed interim CEO on 30 July Committee Chairman 2014 and the Company Chairman, Egbert Imomoh, also took on additional executive responsibilities as full time Executive Chairman at the same time.
Remuneration Committee Secondly, Company performance has been affected by the fall in oil prices which by the end of the year had halved from their June peak, as well as operational delays which have impacted The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2014 production.
These issues have resulted in a significant decline were Mr Toby Hayward, Committee Chairman until 30 July in the share price of the Company, culminating in financial when he stood down, Mr Iain McLaren Chairman from 30 July, performance falling well below expectations.
Tremendous efforts Mr Peter Bingham, Mr Patrick Obath and Mr Ennio Sganzerla.
are currently underway to put in place a financial re-structuring Mr Sganzerla served until 6 November when he resigned from which will re-capitalise the business and put it on a firmer the Board.
All members are Non-Executive Directors and footing for future success.
Mr Iain McLaren, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Patrick Obath were determined bythe Board to be independent throughout In addition to describing the Companys remuneration policy theyear.
Mr Hayward was a Non-Executive Director and which remains unchanged from the policy approved at the determined to be independent while a member of the AGM in June 2014 and remuneration paid to Directors for 2014, committee until his appointment as interim CEO.
this report covers the termination arrangements for the two dismissed Executive Directors and the interim remuneration for Mr Hayward and Mr Imomoh.
of meetings The dismissed Executive Directors received no payments for Mr Iain McLaren Chairman 1 1 loss of office and agreed to make a repayment to the Company towards losses including the costs of investigation.
They received Mr Toby Hayward 4 4 no bonus in respect of 2014.
Previously deferred bonus shares Mr Peter Bingham 5 5 and unvested awards under the PSP plan and all unexercised Mr Patrick Obath 5 5 share options were forfeited.
Awards which had already vested under the Companys Performance Share Plan in March 2014 Mr Ennio Sganzerla 4 5 and in previous years were available for exercise as clawback Chairman and member until July 2014. provisions were not included in these agreements.
All awards made in future will include provision to cover clawback and malus.
Their accrued benefits under the respective UK and US defined contribution pension plans are unaffected but involve no future liability to shareholders.
Full details of the termination agreements are shown on page 97.
The Company took advice from its remuneration advisors about the level of salary and variable pay opportunity that should be offered to Mr Hayward for his additional responsibilities.
Mr Hayward agreed to accept an annual salary of 567,000 and to forego any entitlement to long-term incentive awards or benefits under the approved remuneration policy.
This is considerably below the level paid to Mr Shahenshah.
Mr Imomoh asked to waive any additional fee for his extra responsibilities.
92 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance The Board has appointed Alan Linn as new Chief Executive.
Introduction He joined the Company and Board on 30 April 2015.
Details of his remuneration package are given on page 102.
Report preparation The Remuneration Committee has prepared this report in The third Executive Director, the Group Finance Director Darra accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Comyn, continued throughout the year to receive remuneration Groups Accounts and Reports Amendments Regulations 2013 in line with the approved remuneration policy.
As part of the the Regulations which came into force on 1 October 2013. policy, Directors are entitled to be considered for an annual It is divided into the following sections: bonus in relation to the Companys performance and their own performance for the year.
There is no annual bonus for 2014 The annual report on remuneration for the year based on Company KPIs and Mr Comyn has waived any bonus to 31 December 2014 he may have been entitled to for achievement of personal The Companys future remuneration policy objectives for 2014.
A statement about the way in which the Company intends The Remuneration Committee and Board feel confident that the to implement its remuneration policy in 2015. remuneration policy approved last year by 91.6% of shareholders In accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act continues to be appropriate for the Company and will support 2006, our future remuneration policy was the subject of a its full recovery and future growth.
separate shareholder resolution at the 2014 AGM.
91.6% of If you wish to contact me in relation to any aspect of the votes cast were in favour.
The Company is not required to seek Companys Director and senior executive remuneration a new vote until 2017 unless the policy is changed or the arrangements, please do so through the Company Secretary at advisory vote on implementation is not passed.
The Committee the Companys address.
I should be pleased to hear from you.
believes that the approved policy remains entirely appropriate for the Companys needs.
Following the AGM all decisions on Directors remuneration taken in 2014 were in compliance with the approved policy.
Whilst it is not a requirement to re-state the future remuneration policy in years where there is no vote planned, we are reproducing the policy table and notes and the policy on recruitment remuneration and service contracts page 99.
We have not included the illustrations of application of remuneration policy, which are only relevant to a vote.
The Directors remuneration report is unaudited except where otherwise stated.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company complies with the Main Principles and Provisions of Section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees responsibilities have been set by the Board and are set out in its terms of reference which are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
In summary, it is responsible for determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and additionally the Executive Team in consultation with the Chief Executive.
The Committee takes into account the need to recruit and retain executives in a challenging market environment.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice internally from Jane Barker, Human Resources Director, and Elekwachi Ukwu, Company Secretary.
The Committees principal external advisers were MM&K Limited, who provided services both to the Committee and to Company management in connection with Directors and executives remuneration policy, incentive plan design, performance measures and market practice.
MM&Ks fees for assisting the Committee during the year amounted to approximately 41,000.
The Committee is satisfied that any potential conflicts of interest that arose in MM&Ks advising both the Committee and management were avoided by the advisory and reporting procedures followed.
MM&K is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Directors remuneration report continued 2.
2 Mr Imomohs salary has been pro-rated between Executive and Non-Executive based on time.
His allowances include Nigerian allowances pertaining to ambassadorial role.
3 Mr Haywards salary has been pro-rated between Executive and Non-Executive based on time.
4 There was an overlap between Mr Shahenshah and Mr Hayward between 30 July and 13 October during which time both salaries were paid.
For Single Total Figure purposes we have used Mr Shahenshahs salary to July and Mr Haywards salary from August to give a single figure.
In addition to the Benefits in Kind BIK reflected in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director table, further unauthorised BIK have come to light relating to the unauthorised private use of aircraft leased by the Group.
The estimated financial impact amounts to 178,000 in 2013 and 110,000 in 2014 for Osman Shahenshah and 199,000 in 2013 and 150,000 in 2014 for Shahid Ullah.
These figures have not been included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director table as they were outside Company policy and unauthorised.
If these unauthorised BIK were to be included in the total remuneration for Osman Shahenshah and Shahid Ullah, this would result in a revised 2014 total remuneration figure of 1,903,000 for Osman Shahenshah and 1,253,000 for Shahid Ullah.
94 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Annual company performance targets and achievements KPI Metrics 2014 Target Weighting Result Award Corporate KPIs Growth in reserves Reserves Replacement Ratio 1.20 8.3% Not achieved 0% Average production for Working interest production boepd 39,000 boepd 8.3% 32,017 boepd 0% the performance year Improvement in Normalised operating cost per barrel $16.50 per 8.3% $18.43 per barrel 0% operational efficiency barrel Improvement in EHSS Traffic Light Targets covering Over 75% 11.7% Stretch achieved: 86% 100% performance 20 EHSS KPIs Project KPIs Development projects Ebok, Okoro, Okwok, OML 26 50.0% Four individual 36% and Barda Rash project targets development project targets achieved Exploration projects OPL 310: OML 113: Tanga: Kenya: 13.4% Five exploration project 78% Ethiopia: Seychelles: Ain Sifni: targets achieved and Madagascar project targets 100% Notes: Under the Plan, a minimum of 47% overall achievement across all KPIs equates to base performance level payout.
An 83% level of achievement equates to stretch performance level payout.
The Company only achieved 40.2% overall and therefore no Company element of bonus is payable.
Pension entitlements Audited The Executive Directors do not have any interest in any Afren Group defined benefit plan.
In 2014 they participated in defined contribution plans according to the policy described in the policy table.
Directors share and share scheme interests The Company has a policy requiring Executive Directors to retain shares acquired through share option, performance share and deferred bonus plans until a target shareholding is achieved.
The target level is a holding of value equal to five times current annual basic salary for the Chief Executive and twice salary for other Executive Directors.
Unvested performance shares and un-exercised share options do not count towards this total.
However, the Director may sell sufficient shares to cover any personal tax payable at vesting and the exercise price of share options.
Resumed Executive duties on 30 July 2014.
96 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance 2008 Performance Share Plan The performance conditions applying to vesting of the 2014 performance share grant are similar to those shown in the Statement of Implementation for 2015 on page 102.
Minimum vesting is 25% of maximum.
Market price Market price As at at date at date of Date of award Date of vesting As at 1.1.
Awards vested March 2014 prior to suspension.
Variance due to fluctuation in market price since date of approval.
2013 Deferred Bonus Plan The market value of awards shown in this table were included in the total value of bonus declared for the year for which the bonus was awarded and hence form part of the Single Total Figure of Remuneration for 2013.
No bonus will be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2014.
Market price at Date of award Date of vesting As at 1.1.
Payments to past Directors Audited Payments for loss of office Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive and Shahid Ullah COO were dismissed on 13 October 2014.
The dismissed Executive Directors received no payments for loss of office and agreed to make a repayment of US$17.1m US$9.2m from Osman Shahenshah and US$7.9m from Shahid Ullah in relation to payments made to them that were not authorised by the Board.
The Company has agreed to return these funds to Oriental Energy Resources Limited.
In addition, the Company secured a further US$3m in respect of costs to the Company including the third party costs of an independent investigation and certain legal costs.
They will receive no bonus in respect to 2014.
Previously deferred bonuses, unvested awards under the PSP plan and all unexercised share options were forfeited.
Their accrued benefits under the respective UK and US defined contribution plans are unaffected but involve no future liability to shareholders.
Mr Ennio Sganzerla resigned from the Board on 6 November 2014, after more than five years service, in order to pursue other business interests.
Payment of Directors fees ceased at that date and he received no other payment.
Mr Constantine Ogunbiyi, a former Director of Afren Plc between 2008 and 2011, was made redundant with effect from 31 March 2014.
He stood down as a Director of Afren Plc on 11 January 2011.
He received severance payments as follows: Payment in lieu of notice and benefits: 406,066 Compensation severance payment for loss of office: 282,980 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Directors remuneration report continued Performance graph and table Afren TSR performance and CEO total remuneration Afren TSR index TSR Indices based at 31 12 08 100.
Closing gures three-month averages Chief Executive Total Remuneration Index source Alithos CEO total remuneration index FY2008 100 1,286,000 FTSE 250 TSR index 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CEO single total figure of remuneration k 693 2,192 2,499 6,639 2,037 1,855 Annual bonus as % of maximum opportunity 100% 100% 100% 93.8% 95% 0% Long-term incentive vesting as % maximum vesting 100% 100% 65% 82% N A 100% The historical performance graph above compares the total shareholder return performance of Afren plc with that of the FTSE 250 total return index, which the Board considers to be the most appropriate comparator for share performance.
The table below shows the values of the single total figure of remuneration on which the index in the graph has been calculated: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CEO single total figure of remuneration 000 693 2,192 2,499 6,639 2,037 1,855 Includes remuneration for Osman Shahenshah and Toby Hayward pro-rated based on time with no overlap.
Percentage change in the elements of pay from 2013 to 2014 Base salary fees Benefits in kind Annual bonus Chief Executive -3.4% -31.0% -100% Average change for staff 7.3% 7.1% -100% Includes remuneration for Osman Shahenshah and Toby Hayward.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2014 2013 Difference Group employee remuneration 72 96 24 Dividends and other distributions to shareholders 0 0 0 Group capital expenditure 769 716 53 Net cost of acquisitions 0 139 139 Voting at the AGM 4 June 2014 The number of votes cast in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors remuneration report for 2013 were as follows: For Against Percentage of total votes withheld 2013 Directors Remuneration Report 91.78% 8.21% 3.3% Directors Remuneration Policy 91.62% 8.37% 4.0% There was extensive consultation with major shareholders before the remuneration policy was finalised in order to address concerns expressed in previous years, particularly in relation to the design and implementation of incentive plans.
98 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance 3.
Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration Report describes the future policy for Directors remuneration.
This policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and is unchanged except where there is reference to specific individuals who are no longer with the Company.
Future policy table Executive Directors Base salary Purpose Link to corporate strategy Part of a basic competitive package to recruit and retain individuals of the necessary calibre to execute the Companys business strategy.
Reviewed annually with changes effective 1 January, if appropriate.
Opportunity Reviews based on market comparisons and increases to other Group staff.
Details of salaries for 2015 are shown in the implementation statement on page 102.
Increases in Executive Director salaries will not exceed the average staff increase in the Group.
Pension Purpose Link to corporate strategy To provide executives with a long-term savings opportunity: the pension forms part of a basic competitive package to recruit and retain.
Operation Defined Contribution plan for all Executive Directors: a taxable cash allowance is available where contributions exceed statutory limits and the Company operates a salary sacrifice arrangement.
Half of the National Insurance savings are credited to the individual.
Opportunity Company contribution as percentage of salary up to 15%, CEO up to 20%.
Benefits Purpose Link to corporate strategy Insured benefits are included to provide employee protection for the benefit of the employee and Company.
Operation Entitlement contained in service agreements.
Insured benefits provided as part of Group schemes.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence.
Opportunity Private medical insurance Life assurance Critical illness cover Income Protection Policy Car allowance Club membership for business and personal use.
Annual bonus plan Purpose Link to corporate strategy To incentivise and focus attention on Company KPIs: to reward the achievement of EHSS, financial, operational and individual targets and provide a competitive performance-related annual earnings opportunity: compulsory deferral element into shares provides alignment with investors.
Operation Targets and KPIs set at start of year.
80% of opportunity is based on corporate achievement and 20% on individual performance.
50% of the award is paid in cash soon after the year-end and 50% is deferred into Company shares for three years with no further performance conditions.
Delivery of shares depends on continued employment.
Clawback applied for material mis-statement or serious misconduct.
Opportunity Maximum bonus for Exceptional achievement level including deferred amounts is 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 160% of salary for other Executive Directors.
For Excellent achievement, 125% and 110% of salary respectively and for Good achievement threshold, 80% of salary for all Executive Directors.
Performance metrics Company element based on challenging corporate, operational, EHSS and financial KPIs: measures, targets and weightings are set in respect of each financial year.
Personal elements based on performance measures set each financial year relevant to the individuals role and accountabilities: details of the corporate performance measures applicable in the current financial year are contained in the policy implementation statement on page 102.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Directors remuneration report continued 2008 Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose Link to corporate strategy Aligns executives with long-term interests of shareholders by rewarding sustained increase in shareholder value and longer-term execution of business strategy.
Operation Annual grant of contingent shares or nil-price options.
Vesting based on performance measured over not less than three years from grant: discretion to provide equivalent of dividends on the vested shares in cash or shares.
No further retention period but the current Directors have committed to hold shares for at least six months after transfer.
See page 95 for general shareholding policy.
Opportunity Face value of award up to the value of 200% of salary per annum, with Remuneration Committee discretion to award up to 300% in exceptional circumstances for example, to compensate a Director for loss of awards made under a plan operated by a previous employer see recruitment remuneration policy on page 101.
Performance metrics A combination of market and non-market related performance measures are set prior to each award.
Market-related performance may be measured relative to comparable companies and or a relevant index: non-market related measures reflect one or more strategic KPIs.
Vesting is zero for below threshold performance, 25% at threshold and 100% at stretch with straight line vesting between these levels.
Where performance is measured relative to a market benchmark or index, threshold performance is median and stretch performance upper quartile.
Targets for other types of measures will be set at a similar level of challenge.
Under the rules of the plan, as approved by shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend performance conditions in exceptional circumstances to maintain the level of challenge.
Any such changes will be reported in the following Remuneration Report.
The Committee will take into account the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Details of the performance measures and targets applicable to PSP awards made or to be made in the current financial year are contained in the policy implementation statement on page 102.
2005 Executive share option plan Purpose Link to corporate strategy Introduced during Afrens original AIM listing.
Currently employed Executive Directors no longer participate.
The plan is now used as part of a recruitment strategy to attract top quality talent at a senior level below the Board with the objective of providing equivalent long-term interest and competitive opportunity to joiners as compensation for amounts lost at a previous employer.
Operation Operates within approved dilution limits: exercise price is market value at grant date, with exercise up to 20% after one year: a further 20% after two years: and remaining 60% after three years, subject to performance metrics.
Options eligible for exercise up to 10 years from grant.
Opportunity Grant levels reflect the Remuneration Committees view of what represents reasonable compensation for amounts lost at previous employer see recruitment remuneration policy on page 101.
Performance metrics Options not exercisable until share price has remained more than 40% above market price at grant, on average, for three continuous months.
Non-Executive Directors Annual fee Purpose Link to corporate strategy Competitive fee to recruit and retain.
Operation Fixed element currently paid in cash.
Supplementary fees are paid for additional Board responsibilities.
Opportunity Fees are determined in accordance with market practice: the Remuneration Committee recommends the Chairmans fees to the Board and the Board decides on fees for other NEDs, including the Senior Independent Director: committee fees are not identified separately: increases to the Chairmans and NED fees will not exceed the average increase to staff over a three-year period.
Current fees for the Chairman and the other NEDs are contained in the policy implementation statement on page 102.
100 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Recruitment policy Obligations in service contracts normal requirement for pro-rating for both performance and time that apply in the case The Companys philosophy is that all There are no obligations to individuals in of a change in control.
With any material Directors should be remunerated at service contracts or letters of appointment change, where possible the Committee an appropriate level based on Afrens which will give rise to an entitlement consults with shareholders beforehand.
remuneration policy and taking into account beyond that described in the policy the experience and calibre of the individual.
table and the policy on payment for Consideration of conditions The remuneration policy set out on pages 99 loss of office.
elsewhere in Group to 100 will therefore apply equally to new Discretions retained by the and existing Directors.
Afren has a diverse working population Remuneration Committee across the Group, operating out of six However, a new Director recruited from Within the future remuneration policy countries regions UK, USA, Nigeria, Kenya, outside the Company may be offered and recruitment policy as described, the Madagascar and the Kurdistan region of relocation or housing allowances and the areas of discretion for the Board and or Iraq.
Our reward structures have been Company may agree to compensate such Remuneration Committee lie principally designed to meet local requirements whilst a Director to a value not exceeding the in the operation of the 2005 Share Option reflecting our Group-wide remuneration amount of remuneration forgone for Plan and 2008 Performance Share Plan, policies and philosophy.
loss of earnings or the accrued value of the rules of both of which have been incentive plans from his or her previous The major objective of the Group approved by members in General Meeting.
A new Director appointed from remuneration policy is to ensure that there Both plans place a normal limit on the within the Company, whose remuneration is a clear link between each employees face value of individual grants to 200% of arrangements fall outside the Companys individual level of performance and their salary in any one year, but allow a higher remuneration policy for Directors, will reward.
Afrens aim is to achieve an level in exceptional circumstances.
The continue to be entitled to receive any integrated approach to reward, linking 2005 plan sets no limit on the exceptional remuneration to which he or she Company strategy in the form of the amount but restricts the circumstance becomes entitled.
achievement of corporate objectives and to the recruitment of a top executive.
individual performance to salary increases The Committee is unlikely to award in Policy on payment for loss and bonus awards.
These, along with other excess of 300% of salary in such a case.
of office factors such as market positioning and the The 2008 plan sets a limit of 300% overall reward budget, go into the annual Executive Directors service contracts provide but does not specify the nature of the salary and bonus review process for all for a maximum of 12 months notice.
The Board employees including the executive team.
letters of appointment for Non-Executive considers that this is also only likely to Directors provide for three months notice.
arise in the case of external recruitment.
This ensures that a co-ordinated and consistent approach is taken encouraging On termination of an Executive Directors Both plans allow the Board or trustees and supporting a high-performance culture service contract, the Companys policy to set performance vesting conditions at whilst ensuring fairness and transparency is to pay the salary and benefits to which the time of grant.
Such conditions will, in across the Group.
the executive is contractually entitled.
There future, be disclosed to shareholders in the is no contractual entitlement to receive any coming years implementation statement Statement of consideration bonus or the value of any unexercised share unless the Board considers that such of shareholders views options or unvested awards under the PSP disclosure has commercial sensitivity.
Depending on the Prior to the finalisation of the remuneration In both plans the Remuneration Committee circumstances, the Company may decide report and policy in 2014, the Company has discretion to vary the performance to make a bonus payment in respect of the consulted with major investors and investor conditions to reflect changed circumstances, period up to the termination date and to advisory firms about both the proposed but such discretion has to be exercised permit the exercise of share options or the policy and the clarity of disclosure in the fairly and reasonably and must ensure vesting of share awards in accordance with report.
The Company was responding, that the amended conditions are no more the relevant plan rules as approved by partly, to shareholder dissatisfaction in or less difficult to satisfy than when shareholders on adoption.
It is not the previous years as well as seeking to they were originally imposed.
A similar Companys policy to make any payments implement effectively the requirements discretion covers adjustments to scheme in respect of bonus or to permit the exercise of the Governments new remuneration interests to avoid any advantage or of options or the vesting of share awards if reporting regime.
As a consequence of disadvantage to a plan participant the Company is entitled to dismiss a Director these consultations we made some changes following changes in the capital structure for cause.
This policy has been strictly to the policy and report, in particular of the Company.
enforced in the recent termination of improving the historical reporting of the Both plans allow the Board or Remuneration Executive Directors.
We feel that Committee to determine that a leaver the high supporting vote for the new policy is to be treated as a good leaver for the demonstrates shareholder satisfaction with purposes of option exercise although they both the policy and the reporting of it.
do not come within the normal plan definition of a good leaver.
In the 2008 plan, the Committee may waive the normal requirement for pro-rating a good leaver award vesting for time and may waive the Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Directors remuneration report continued 4.
Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy in 2015 New Chief Executives Annual bonus implementation 2008 Performance Share Plan remuneration package The total bonus available to be awarded implementation 2015 grants including the 50% that is deferred Alan Linns base salary is 530,000 per The Remuneration Committee may is weighted 80% on the achievement annum.
He is eligible for the Executive consider granting performance shares of corporate targets and 20% on Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and other to Executive Directors in line with individual performance.
benefits as described in the Future Policy policy see Policy Table.
It is expected that he will be The corporate targets are split between In previous years the vesting measures awarded equity under the Afren Plc 2008 strategic KPIs and project goals.
for the PSP grants have been total Performance Share Plan once the share shareholder return relative to the There are four corporate KPIs and a series price has settled following on from the FTSE 250 and an industry peer group, of project KPIs which are taken into account completion of the restructuring.
underpinned by a reserve replacement in setting the bonus.
The corporate KPIs are: He has been offered a relocation package measure.
The Remuneration Committee KPI Measure in line with normal Company policy believes that these measures may not be Growth in reserves Reserves replacement including six months accommodation appropriate for this years grants in view ratio following his move from Kuala Lumpur.
of the restructuring of the Company.
Average production Working interest If and when grants are made likely to for the year production Salaries be in July or later, the Committee will Improvement in Normalised operating The existing Executive Directors salaries impose vesting conditions with market and operating efficiency cost per barrel for the financial year ending 31 December financial measures which reflect the results Improvement in CSR Balanced scorecard of 2015 remained the same as 2014. needed to turn the Company around.
performance EHSS and CSR projects PSP awards will in future include provision Egbert Imomoh 210,300 The project elements reward performance for claw-back in the event of material Toby Hayward 567,000 against a series of development and misstatement or misconduct.
Darra Comyn 395,000 exploration appraisal projects.
The weighting varies between projects.
Benefits Points for each project are awarded for achievement of the work programme The cost of insured benefits and benefits within budget.
in kind for 2015 are estimated to be Iain McLaren as follows: The corporate and project-related targets Chairman of the Remuneration will not be disclosed at this stage for Committee Egbert Imomoh 14,000 reasons of commercial sensitivity.
In the 30 April 2015 Toby Hayward 11,000 remuneration report for 2015, to be presented in 2016, the Board will consider Darra Comyn 18,000 whether it can present these targets and Benefits include medical insurance, will report accordingly.
critical illness cover, car allowances and Annual bonus awards may be subject club membership.
Pensions contributions to claw-back in the event of material will be as stated in the policy table.
Mr Imomoh and Mr Hayward do not receive pension benefits.
102 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
