Directors remuneration report performance measure relating to dividend performance, we believe On behalf of the Board, I am this incentive structure delivers value to both the Company and its pleased to present the Directors Executives and further aligns their interests with shareholders.
Remuneration Report for the 2013 14 financial year.
For the 2012 13 financial year, performance against the LTAP The Dairy Crest remuneration scorecard delivered a grant of 80% of basic pay for Executive policy continues to be based upon Directors, reflecting the strong performance of Dairy Crest against a core set of principles which the Companys strategic objectives.
In the year, the Company support the strategic and financial faced highly challenging market conditions with reductions in milk ambitions of the Company: production leading to significant increases in milk price.
The achieved EBITDA growth represented a good performance The remuneration package should support a performance against this very challenging backdrop.
Particularly strong based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align performance was noted against the balance sheet efficiency and executives and shareholders interests.
ROCE metrics, with the disposal of St Hubert supporting a The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and significant reduction in net debt and gearing.
One of the key transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure.
strategic objectives of Dairy Crest continues to be on-going The measures used for incentive plans reflect the strategic annual cost savings and in 2012 13 the Group delivered savings of priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future 23 million, combined with savings from factory closures, success of the Company.
The 2012 13 LTAP award was granted in August 2013, and therefore full details of the outcomes are given in the During the year, the Committee has reviewed the components of Implementation Report under Scheme interests awarded during executive remuneration in order to ensure that they remain true to the financial year these guiding principles, are motivating to Executives, appropriate For the 2013 14 financial year, the LTAP grant will be 80% of basic to the needs of the business and competitive with the market.
pay for the Executive Directors, which reflects the continued strong performance of Dairy Crest.
In particular, EBITDA performance, which is key to our progressive dividend policy, has shown considerable improvement against the backdrop of a 2013 14 difficult market and another year of high milk prices.
ROCE for the 2013 14 has been a year of progress for Dairy Crest in which we year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term target 12%, have continued to deliver against our strategy despite challenging demonstrating a strong return on investment for Dairy Crest while trading conditions reflecting a very competitive UK grocery market.
This LTAP grant also The completion of our internal restructure delivered the forecast recognises the above target cost savings of 25m achieved in the savings and streamlined and improved our processes.
The new yearand the Companys progress towards our brand growth and structure has delivered a greater focus on both customer and innovation goals.
As the 2013 14 grant level was determined consumer insight, whilst offering opportunities to develop talent based on performance against the LTAP scorecard over the within the Company.
The development of the whey business previous financial year, we have provided full details of the provides exciting revenue potential as well as further opportunities to outcomes against these measures in this report.
This is contained nurture talent within the business.
During the year the cost base has in the Implementation Report under Statement of implementation been effectively managed.
In a year of considerable change and of policy in the following financial year progress for the business, leadershipby the Executives has been All grants under the LTAP will vest in two equal tranches after four key in delivering value.
years and five years, subject to the dividend performance condition being met The Dairy Crest annual bonus incorporates stretching short term financial targets and personal objectives.
This years bonus 2014 15 payments reflect improved profit before tax performance including 2014 15 is expected to be another challenging year particularly in enhanced property profits, resulting in payments of 81.75% of salary light of the intensely competitive UK grocery market.
Our focus will continue to be on investment in brands and innovation, reductions in for Mark Allen, 75.50% for Martyn Wilks and 81.75% for Tom our cost base and improving the quality of earnings.
Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks will receive nosalary increase in 2014.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan LTISP 2011 had This is in line with our approach to salary reviews for Administrative a three-year performance period to March 2014.
Of the total award, and Managerial employees for this year.
As referenced in last years 40% was based on the Groups adjusted basic earnings per share remuneration report, Tom Athertons promotion to Group Finance Adjusted EPS and 60% was dependent on the Companys total Director was at a salary level significantly below the market rate, but shareholder return TSR performance against the TSR of the FTSE with a clear plan for enhanced salary adjustments in line with 250 excluding financial services companies, real estate companies increasing experience and good performance in the role.
The Company did not achieve the minimum pleased to confirm that further to an on-going review of Toms Adjusted EPS target threshold and so for this element, no awards performance his salary will be increased by 18% to 260,000 p. a.. will be released.
Against the TSR performance measure, the This change represents a move to a lower quartile position as Company achieved 39.1% growth which resulted in 23.5% of compared to FTSE 250 CFOs.
In line with our remuneration policy, it awardsvesting.
is anticipated that Toms salary will be moved towards the median for comparable roles over time.
Following a broad shareholder communication and consultation process we were delighted to receive strong shareholder support at changes to reporting the 2013 AGM for the revised long term incentive scheme, the LTAP, Preparing a report in line with the new reporting requirements has with a 97.8% vote in support.
Constructed around a set of strategic been a key focus of the Remuneration Committee during 2013 14.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs supported by a 3 year Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 45 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Supportive of the principles underpinning the new regulations, we Regulations 2013, and the rest of this remuneration report is split have delivered a report that fulfils the requirements, providing details into two parts as follows of our remuneration policies and outcomes in a way we believe will be most helpful to shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the Companys proposed policy on Directors remuneration and the key factors Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by that were taken into account when determining it.
It is intended that the policy in this report will apply for a three year period from stephen alexander 1 April 2015.
However, if the remuneration policy ceases to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee appropriate, the Committee will consider changes, putting any amended policy to a shareholder vote at the relevant time.
This This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2013 to 31 part of the report is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at March 2014 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee the 2014 AGM.
and remuneration policy for the Company, together with payments The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the Remuneration and awards made to Directors.
Committees activities, payments and awards made to the Directors and details the link between company performance and It complies fully with the new disclosure requirements for remuneration for the 2013 14 financial year.
This part of the report remuneration reporting, as required by the Large and Medium-sized together with the Annual Statement is subject to an advisory vote Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment at the 2014 AGM.
Directors remuneration policy Directors remuneration policy Future policy table We seek to ensure that remuneration packages contribute to the The remuneration structure for Executive and non-executive delivery of long term shareholder value.
This is reflected in the Directors who are paid only fees and receive no additional benefits, Companys annual bonus scheme and long term alignment plan, at Dairy Crest, and the underlying principles on which each element which are explained in more detail below.
The Committee will be of the package is based are set out below: requesting shareholder approval of the following remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2014 to cover a period of three years from 1 April 2015.
How the element supports our strategic performance metrics used, and time objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Base salary Benchmarked against executives with Increases will normally be broadly in line with not applicable.
Reflect assessment similar responsibilities in companies of inflation and the wider employee population.
of market practice comparable size and complexity, in The Committee retains the flexibility to award based on role and particular the constituent companies of higher base salary increases and to position experience.
the FTSE 250 index excluding financial salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest services.
remains competitive in the market, and to take Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments intoaccount an individuals personal performance during the year.
and experience in the role as such the Committee may apply increases over time as Reviewed annually and any changes are appropriate to achieve alignment with market in the ordinary course effective from 1st levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a change in role or responsibility.
pension There is a defined contribution scheme Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive not applicable.
Provide a market and or salary supplement in place.
no employer contributions up to Annual competitive level of further service accrual under final salary Allowance plus cash supplements.
Total provision with pension scheme from 1 April 2010. benefit will not exceed 23% of salary.
appropriate flexibility Martyn Wilks receives a cash supplement of whilst minimising 23% of salary.
Benefits Includes company car benefit, life All Executives receive a company car car not applicable.
Provide marketassurance cover, permanent health allowance and private medical insurance, competitive insurance and medical insurance.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life benefits on a monthly basis, or as insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
Martyn Wilks receives life insurance cover of The Remuneration Committee reserves 4xannual salary.
the right to add to or remove these benefits as required.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 How the element supports our strategic performance metrics used, and time objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Bonus To deliver an appropriate balance Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the Ensure that annual between long term and short term financial year.
reward is consistent reward, any bonus earned over 50% of Metrics used to determine performance with successfully annual salary is deferred into shares see Threshold award: 0% of salary.
under the bonus will be based on a mix of achieving the short below.
The remainder is paid as cash.
financial, operational and personal measures.
In 2013 14 the Remuneration Committee term financial The cash element of the bonus is paid adopted discretion to increase the maximum targets and strategic The Committee has the flexibility to vary the three months after the end of the award to 150% of salary in exceptional objectives of the performance measures and weighting of financial year to which it relates.
The Committee is not aware of Group.
any such circumstances and so does not currently expect to make awards above the maximum of 100% of salary.
Deferred bonus Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is Policy maximum award: 50% of salary none.
Value growth is achieved only through Deliver appropriate deferred for three years, conditional on maximum potential deferral.
change in share price, and dividend balance between continued employment until vesting date.
long term and short Delivered in shares.
Participants will term reward and to In the exceptional event the Remuneration normally be entitled to an amount, build up Directors Committee exercises discretion to award a payable in shares, on vesting equal in shareholdings in line bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus value to the dividends payable on with policy.
earned above 50% of salary would be deferred bonus shares over the deferral deferred into shares.
Long term Annual grant of share awards.
Achievements over the prior year against a alignment plan pre-grant performance scorecard comprising Awards will be subject to a phased If performance falls below a minimum level Ltap measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic vesting requirement, with 50% of the against the scorecard no award will be made.
award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year reward continuing 5 following grant.
The Committee has flexibility to amend the improvement in the relevant measures, weightings and KPIs Groups Participants will normally be entitled to which determine the size of the awards performance over an amount on vesting, paid in shares, granted.
The weighting of financial KPIs in the longer term.
equal in value to the dividends payable determining annual grant levels will be at least on shares awarded.
Alignment of interest 60% of the scorecard.
between The Board may at any time up to and on Vesting is subject to continued employment.
participants and vesting reduce the number of shares that shareholders.
vest, should material misstatement or The level of vesting may be reduced misconduct occur.
dependent on a dividend underpin over the Measures identified first three years of the vesting period.
are central to Dairy Crests strategy and An amount of the award proportional to the are considered by percentage decrease in dividend may be Directors in clawed back in the event of a decline of up to overseeing the 50%.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the operation of the Committee will use its discretion to determine business.
the proportion of the award that shall vest.
In such circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
The dividend cover range will be determined by the Committee annually, and may be adjusted if the Committee determines this to be appropriate.
shareholding Directors are encouraged to build a The shareholding requirement for Executive not applicable.
requirement shareholding in the Company.
Such Directors is 200% of salary.
Alignment of interest shareholdings exclude unvested options between participants under the Long Term Incentive Share and shareholders.
Plan and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Directors who have not achieved the minimum shareholding requirement will be encouraged to retain 50% of any shares released under the deferred bonus LTAP until the required level of shareholding is reached.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 47 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED How the element supports our strategic performance metrics used, and time objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable non-executive Benchmarked against non-executive The total fees for non-executive Directors not applicable.
Directors fees Directors with similar responsibilities in remain within the limit of 600,000 set out in Remunerates companies of comparable size and the Articles of Association.
Directors and attracts The remuneration of the non-executive non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board Directors of suitable following recommendations from the calibre.
Remuneration Committee and Chief Executive.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by the Board following recommendations from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee having consulted with an external adviser and the Chief Executive.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply awards made in 2011 and 2012 Long term incentive Annual grant of share awards.
60% subject to three-year relative TSR share plan Ltisp performance against a comparator group Three-year vesting period.
Alignment of interest comprising FTSE 250 constituents as at between participants the grant date excluding financial service and shareholders.
companies, real estate companies and investment trusts.
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPS growth targets.
notes on policy table and components of remuneration performance measures and targets Measures for incentive plans reflect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company.
Targets are set by reference to budgeted financials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth outcomes.
changes to remuneration policy from that operating in 2013 14 Base salary no change Benefits no change pension no change Bonus See Bonus policy page 47 Long term incentive In 2013 the Committee introduced the LTAP to replace the LTISP.
The LTAP was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, with the first grants made in August 2013.
Differences in remuneration for all employees The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan.
The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTISP arrangement.
A smaller group of senior management now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriateto their role.
statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company The Committee considers the remuneration of the wider workforce when determining appropriate pay levels for Executive Directors.
For 2013 14 there was an 2% increase in basic pay and associated payments for operative level employees and an increase in salaries for administrative and managerial employees of 1.5%.
However, the Directors and senior management group did not receive a general increase.
As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not specifically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors, but any comments received are taken into account.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in the role.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below: component policy and principles Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable benefits companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Companys ability to pay.
Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items.
In addition, the Committee may grant additional support as appropriate.
Other benefits provided will be aligned to those set out on pages46 to 47. pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the defined contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement payment above this.
Total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic Salary.
annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Any bonus over 50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Long term The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
incentives The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration policy table.
replacement The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period awards than the awards forfeited from a new recruits previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone.
The Committee has the flexibility to use cash and or shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
executive Director Date of commencement of contract notice period M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months M Wilks 7 January 2008 12 months T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months Executive Directors service agreements are available on the Companys website www.
non-executive Director Letters of appointment notice period A Fry 15 July 2009 3 months A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months It is the Companys policy that non-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years.
A template non-executive Directors letter of appointment is available on the Companys website.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 49 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED external appointments Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company.
External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
Any external appointment must not conflict with a Directors duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
Fees may be retained by Directors for such appointments.
termination policy The Remuneration Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules including relevant performance conditions.
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and policy on payment for loss of office.
component policy and principles notice period 12 months notice from Company.
compensation for Up to 12 months salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in loss of office in the notice period.
service contracts Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benefits, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allens contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items annual salary, benefits, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period.
This will not be the Companys policy going forward for other Executive Directors.
Under the terms of Martyn Wilks contract, payments on termination are calculated as annual base salary, benefits and pension contribution, half of which would be paid on termination and the remainder paid in six equal monthly instalments.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of office for Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
treatment of If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, unvested deferred deferred shares may be released on termination.
bonus awards Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
under plan rules treatment of Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, unvested long term disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date incentive plan with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the awards under plan award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other rules factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time.
exercise of Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide discretion flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Deferred bonus awards would normally be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 illustration of application of remuneration policy A significant proportion of a Directors total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short term and long term business objectives.
The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance scenarios for the Executive Directors.
Director Value of package 000s 41% 31% 28% 1,649 m allen Maximum 52% 20% 28% 1,286 Target 100% 665 Minimum Fixed 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 41% 31% 28% 1,106 m Wilks Maximum 52% 20% 28% 863 Target 100% 448 Minimum Fixed 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 41% 31% 28% t atherton 701 Maximum Target 52% 20% 28% 547 100% 283 Minimum Fixed 150 300 450 600 750 0 Key: Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long term Variable Remuneration notes to the scenarios: Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 April 2014, pension benefits including salary supplement and other fixed benefits company car, etc as per the last known number.
annual variable remuneration: This element shows annual bonus including any amount deferred at 100% of salary in the maximum scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long term Variable remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP, at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario and 70% of salary in the target scenario.
no allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure rules.
statement of consideration of shareholders views The Board consulted with several larger shareholders on the proposal to replace the LTISP with the new LTAP.
Following an in-depth consultation process, the Remuneration Committee and the Board considered the feedback received and put final proposals to a shareholder vote at the 2013 AGM, where a strong vote in favour of 97.8% was received.
The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any comments which are received.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 51 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Annual report on remuneration single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the on-going success of the Company.
Should an Executive Director leave employment before 1 July 2014, vesting shall be dependent upon qualification as a good leaver under the scheme rules.
The 2013 LTAP award will be included in the single figure table in the 2015 16 annual report on remuneration following completion of the dividend underpin performance period for this award.
iv Pension amounts include employers pension contribution and salary supplement.
Base salary, bonus and LTISP are defined on pages 46 to 48.
Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement including bonus to be deferred in shares being 164k for Mark Allen, 88k for Martyn Wilks and 67k for Tom Atherton.
Taxable benefits comprise 63k, valued at the taxable value.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling 43k 2013: 40k.
additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table subject to audit performance against targets for annual bonus Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short term financial targets and personal objectives.
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long term and short term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the Companys shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Bonus payouts for the 2013 14 performance year are set out below: maximum potential m allen outcome m Wilks outcome t atherton outcome measure Details asa% of salary asa % of salary asa % of salary as a % of salary profit before Stretching targets based on budget, with 60% 60% 60% 60% tax a sliding scale between threshold and maximum net debt Stretching targets based on budget, with 15% 3% 3% 3% a sliding scale between threshold and maximum personal A range of non-financial operational and 25% 18.75% 12.5% 18.75% objectives strategic objectives will be assessed by the Committee, with an appropriate award level set under this element with reference to the overall performance of the business.
52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 maximum potential m allen outcome as m Wilks outcome as t atherton outcome measure Details as a % of salary a % of salary a % of salary as a % of salary total 100% of salary 81.75% of salary 75.50% of salary 81.75% of salary 423k 261k 149k Deferred into 31.75% of salary 25.5% of salary 31.75% of salary shares 164k 88k 67k Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 31% in the year to 65.3m triggering a maximum payout in respect of the profit target.
net debt increased by 82m in the year, albeitreduced by 50m from 30 September 2013.
Despite this improved second half performance, the overall increase in net debt resulted in an award at the lower end of the range.
Long term incentive share plan 2011 Awards under the LTISP 2011 had a three-year performance period to 31 March 2014.
40% of the total award was based on the Groups Adjusted EPS and 60% was measured against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies, real estate companies and investment trusts.
Vesting measure threshold maximum outcome as % award granted in 2011 tsr performance against Median 30% of TSR award Upper quartile or above 100% 73 155 23.5% Ftse 250 constituents 60% vests of TSR award vests of total Ltisp award eps target 40% of total RPI 1% p. a. over the three RPI 5% p. a. over the three Threshold level not achieved 0% Ltisp award year performance period 30% year performance period of EPS award vests 100% of EPS award vests overall outcome 23.5% current position on outstanding Ltisp awards not subject to audit The table below sets out the current position against performance targets for the LTISP award granted in 2012: Vesting measure threshold maximum outcome as % award granted in 2012 tsr performance against Median 30% of TSR award Upper quartile or above 100% 59 159 40.3% Ftse 250 constituents 60% vests of TSR award vests of total Ltisp award eps target 40% of total RPI 1% p. a. over the three RPI 5% p. a. over the three Threshold level unlikely to be 0% Ltisp award year performance period 30% year performance period achieved of EPS award vests 100% of EPS award vests overall outcome 40.3% current position on outstanding Ltap awards not subject to audit The LTAP award made in the year under review is subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made.
An amount of the award proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend may be clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 2.5 over the three-year measurement period.
The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 3%, and the dividend cover is 1.9 times.
Based on this performance continuing the full award granted would vest.
total pension entitlements subject to audit Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a defined benefit scheme to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010.
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual pension and received a cash lump sum of 221,510 in 2010 11.
Benefit accrual ceased on 31 March 2010 and Mark Allen is no longer paying contributions into the scheme.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the defined contribution scheme throughout 2013 14.
Alastair Murray was also a member of the defined contribution scheme until leaving the Company on 23 May 2013.
The Company made contributions up to the 50,000 limit for employee and employer contributions.
Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary.
Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension scheme in the year ended 31 March 2014 and received a salary supplement of 23% of basic salary.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 53 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED payments for loss of office subject to audit Alastair Murray left the Board on 23 May 2013 and was succeeded as Group Finance Director by Tom Atherton.
The payments for loss of office made to Alastair Murray are as follows: termination payment The termination payment to Alastair Murray on leaving employment was 557,020, calculated in accordance with the provisions of his service contract, which entitled him to an amount based on his salary, non-cash benefits, pension benefits and 50% of the maximum annual bonus potentially payable in the financial year of his departure.
This amount was pro-rated by a factor of 0.9 for accelerated payment under a contractual formula.
Deferred bonus All outstanding deferred bonus shares were released to Alastair Murray comprising 46.692 shares including on vesting additional shares in respect of dividends paid.
Long term incentives As his outstanding LTISP awards did not meet the minimum performance requirements for threshold vesting, no shares were released to Alastair Murray under these schemes.
payments to past Directors subject to audit no payments were made in the year to past Directors other than the termination payments to Alastair Murray detailed above.
scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit Ltap 2013 award The award made under the LTAP in 2013 was made on 15 August 2013.
The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising of measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
Outcomes against the 2013 scorecard are summarised in the second table below, and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period.
percentage vesting Level of award % of at threshold Director salary Face value 000s performance number of shares end of vesting period mark allen 80% 414 n A 79,329 50%at August2017 50% at August2018 martyn Wilks 80% 277 n A 53,068 50%at August2017 50% at August2018 tom atherton 80% 160 n A 30,651 50%at August2017 50% at August2018 Determination of 2013grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year.
Delivery of profit is core to the 30% 13% business and supports the progressive dividend policy.
Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 20% 20% maintaining net debt EBITDA in the investment within a sustainable level 1.0-2.0 x range.
3. corporate activity & Delivery of annual cost savings Ensuring cost savings are delivered 15% 15% efficiencies targets.
Delivery of synergies and return on Ensuring that major acquisitions investment following acquisitions or divestments deliver against relevant successful divestments when synergy and return targets.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and Brand growth is key to longer term 15% 12% three years versus markets in which business growth.
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of 10% 6% proportion of revenue from innovation productivity and growth.
6. corporate responsibility A range of metrics including Delivering results in a sustainable 10% 9% improvements in accident incident waywhich enhance reputation and emissions & stakeholder engagement.
rates, reduced CO 2 improved employee engagement.
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome total 75% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 80% of salary.
outcome: 13% Profit was assessed by the Remuneration Committee against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget and taking into consideration the level of challenge included in budget at the beginning of the year.
Conditions were particularly challenging in 2012.
During the first part of the year cream prices fell dramatically before recovering as milk supply decreased.
Milk costs reduced in the first quarter of 2012 13, but on-farm inflation, farmer action and significant reductions in milk production led to a 10% increase in the price of milk thereafter resulting in a c60m increase in costs that had to be recovered.
The business also incurred non-milk input cost inflation and the consumer environment remained weak.
The Remuneration Committee therefore considered that against this context the small year on year increase in adjusted EBITDA, in line with market consensus, represented a good performance although did not achieve budgeted levels.
A reduced award under this component to 13% was therefore considered appropriate.
outcome: 20% The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2012 13 through the assessment of ROCE performance calculated based on average operating assets against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%.
The Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing being net debt adjusted EBITDA remain below 2.0 times.
The disposal of St Hubert during the year transformed the Groups balance sheet, leading to a significant reduction in net debt and gearing to fall to 0.6 times by year end.
ROCE for the year of 13.3% was ahead of the long term 12% target.
This result, especially its positive impact on our ability to invest in future growth, was considered a significant accomplishment against our balance sheet efficiency objectives and resulted in a full award being made under this component.
outcome: 15% For this year, the Remuneration Committee split this measure to be based on two equally-weighted KPIs: the assessment of the full year effect of cost efficiency projects initiated in the year, and the delivery of synergies and returns on acquisitions.
The Remuneration Committee recognised that the Group delivered cost savings of 23m against a target of 20m, alongside cost benefits from factory closures, and considered that this achievement warranted the full amount of this award.
In assessing the second KPI, the Remuneration Committee considered the post-acquisition performance of MH Foods where a simplification of the businesss product range helped deliver operating profits in excess of targets, again resulting in the decision to award the full amount under this measure.
outcome: 12% Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee assessed the performance of the Cathedral City, Country Life, Clover and FRijj retail brands, both over a one year and three year timeline to ensure the rewarding of both short and long term growth.
Based on independent market data nielsen, brand growth for three of the four key brands was ahead of the market in 2012 13, the exception being FRijj where the market has seen several new branded entrants supported by heavy marketing and promotional activity plus our ability to promote being constrained pending the completion of our investment in Severnside which will increase capacity.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, brand performance for the year was good and also represented an improvement over the three-year performance period versus the market.
Taking these factors into account an award of 12% was considered appropriate for this measure.
outcome: 6% Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from product innovation over the previous three years.
In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue.
The Remuneration Committee considered the achievement of 5% of Group revenue and 9% of branded revenue delivered through innovation over the last three years against this target as solid progress albeit it did not meet the Groups challenging aspirations.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee an award of 6% against this measure was considered appropriate.
outcome: 9% The assessment for corporate responsibility encompasses a number of measurable targets but judgement is required in order to assess the overall performance in light of this.
Overall, the Remuneration Committee noted that budget targets were met across the majority of KPIs, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 55 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED notably reductions in accident incident rates, CO emissions and use of water.
The challenging target for landfill avoidance was not achieved, 2 albeit progress was made against the prior year.
Furthermore, Dairy Crests success in achieving the BITC platinum BIG TICK rating was a strong endorsement of the Groups progress against the Corporate Responsibility agenda.
The Remuneration Committee considered an award of 9% to be appropriate.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced dependent on a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 March 2016.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
shareholder dilution In accordance with the guidelines set by the Association of British Insurers ABI, the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
Currently 6.3% of issued shares have been made under share plans, with 1.6% under discretionary or executive schemes.
statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests subject to audit Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved.
Shareholdings exclude unvested options under the LTISP and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Mark Allen has satisfied the shareholding requirement.
Martyn Wilks and Tom Atherton have not met the requirement and will continue to grow their shareholding.
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: number of shares owned outright including connected unvested Ltap Deferred annual i ii iii iv v Director persons Ltisp 2011 Ltisp 2012 shares bonus shares saYe M Allen 143,798 37,379 169,038 80,193 7,945 3,202 M Wilks 46,411 25,005 113,080 53,646 3,426 3,202 T Atherton 3,347 4,996 22,861 30,985 vi A Murray 154,018 17,794 42,959 46,692 A Carr-Locke 2,000 R Macdonald 1,000 S Alexander 1,000 S Farr 4,465 A Fry 3,000 i Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2011 nil cost share options : The performance period ended on 31 March 2014 and all awards will vest on 1 July 2014.
Amounts shown are numbers of shares which will vest ii Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2012 nil cost share options : The performance period will end on 31 March 2015 and awards will vest on 3 July 2015.
Amounts shown include initial grant and options related to reinvested dividends to the date of this Report iii Long Term Alignment Plan 2013 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016.
50% of awards will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018.
Amounts shown include initial grant and options related to reinvested dividends to the date of this Report iv This may include both deferred shares or unvested nil cost share options v Save As You Earn Scheme 2012 cost options : The exercise price for these options is 281 pence per share and the exercise period is 3 2016 - 9 2016.
There are no applicable performance conditions vi Interests in shares as at 23 May 2013 There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 March 2014 and 21 May 2014.
Gain on sale of share options Gain on exercise of share options Director number of options exercised market value at exercise date 000s 000s A Murray 3,754 19 19 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 performance graph and table The graph below sets out for the five years ended 31 March 2014 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest Total Shareholder Returns for 100 invested 220 FTSE 250 excluding 200 investment companies 180 Dairy Crest Group plc 160 140 120 100 80 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 ceo pay 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 total remuneration 000s 1,018 888 904 937 1,281 annual bonus % max 94% 54% 50% 52.5% 81.7% Long term incentive vesting 0% 0% 0% 0% 23.5% % max percentage change in ceos remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 13 and 2013 14, compared with the percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for those salaried members of the clerical, administrative, supervisory and management population allocated to Hay bands.
This group comprises 27% of the total workforce, and has been identified as the most appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements: salary taxable benefits Bonus 2013 14 2012 13 % change 2013 14 2012 13 % change 2013 14 2012 13 % change ceo 000s 518 518 0 28 28 0 423 272 56 average pay for wider 41 40 1.4 5.2 4.8 9 5.4 3.5 56 employee population 000s relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 2012 13 and 2013 14: m 2013 14 2012 13 % change employee remuneration costs 157.0 176.5 -11.0 Dividends 28.5 27.4 4.0 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 57 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED statement of implementation of policy in the following financial year The Directors remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2014 15 financial year as follows: Base salary 000s role 2013 14 effective 1 april 2014 Mark Allen 518 518 Martyn Wilks 346 346 Tom Atherton 220 260 from 1 7 2014 Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role.
In line with the Remuneration Committees intent as stated in the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been an awarded an increase for 2014 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level.
The 18% increase reflects his exceptional performance in his first year and takes his positioning against the market to lower quartile.
This forms part of a phased increase over time, and the Remuneration Committee expects that any subsequent increases will be lower as a percentage of salary.
neD fees 000s role 2013 14 effective 1 april 2014 non-executive Chairman 155 155 non-executive Director base 38 38 Audit Committee Chair 5 5 Corporate Responsibility Chair 5 5 Remuneration Committee Chair 5 5 Senior Independent Director 5 5 Bonus measures Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2014 15 bonus is 100% of salary, with 50% of salary paid for on-target performance.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures: Profit before tax 60% of award net debt 15% of award Personal objectives 25% of award The targets for the 2014 15 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Companys competitors.
Payout outcomes against these targets will be disclosed in the 2014 15 report.
Ltap 2014 award The award made under the LTAP 2014 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
Outcomes against the 2014 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
Director Level of award % of salary Face value 000s end of vesting period mark allen 80% 414 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date martyn Wilks 80% 277 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date tom atherton 80% 176 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Determination of 2014 grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year.
Delivery of profit is core to the business 30% 23% and supports the progressive dividend policy.
Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 20% 17% maintaining net debt EBITDA in the investment within a sustainable level of 1.0-2.0 x range.
3. corporate activity & Delivery of annual cost savings Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 15% 15% efficiencies targets.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and Brand growth is key to longer term 15% 5% three years versus markets in which business growth.
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of productivity 10% 6% proportion of revenue from innovation and growth.
6. corporate responsibility A range of metrics including Delivering results in a sustainable way 10% 8% improvements in accident incident which enhances reputation and rates, reduced CO emissions & stakeholder engagement.
total 74% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 80% of salary.
outcome: 23% The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA performance in 2013 14 showed considerable improvement in what continued to be a challenging market.
Milk prices remained high, resulting in a c45m increase in costs that had to be recovered.
Developments in the retail sector and the increased prominence of discounters led to further pressures being applied to the Dairies business.
The Remuneration Committee considered that against this context, the adjusted EBITDA outcome showed a good performance and awarded 23% on this basis.
outcome: 17% The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2012 13 through the assessment of ROCE performance calculated based on average operating assets against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%.
As last year, the Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing being net debt EBITDA remain below 2.0 times.
ROCE for the year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term 12% target.
This result represented a good performance against our balance sheet efficiency objectives and resulted in an award of 17% 3. corporate activity & efficiencies W eighting: 15%.
outcome: 15% Given no major M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings.
Against a target of 20m the Group made savings of 25m.
This resulted in a full award being made against this component.
outcome: 5% The key brand performance was mixed.
Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth below the market albeit both FRijj and Country Life both performed better in the second half of the year.
Cathedral City continues to significantly outperform the market.
Although longer-term data shows three of our four key brands outperforming the market, we believe an award of 5% is appropriate given the importance of brand growth in the current environment.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 59 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED 5. innovation Weighting: 10%.
Achieving 4% of Group revenue and 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing some progress against this component, albeit not in line with the Groups challenging targets.
As a result, an award of 6% was considered appropriate.
outcome: 8% We have made good progress on health and safety during the year but certain other targets with respect of landfill avoidance and employee engagement were not met.
However, we were the highest scoring company in BITCs CR index with 4.5 out of 5.0.
This measures a range of Corporate Responsibility criteria consistent with our LTAP measures and therefore an award of 8% is considered appropriate.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced dependent on a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 March 2017.
Ltap 2015 award A grant will be made in 2015 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed policy.
As the grant will be based on scorecard of metrics assessed over the 2014 15 financial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2015.
We have included the 2014 15 KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy.
We have not included specific targets on the KPIs, as the targets are considered commercially sensitive.
The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2014 15 Directors Remuneration Report.
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year.
Delivery of profit is core to the business and supports the 30% progressive dividend policy.
Balance sheet ROCE target each year whilst maintaining net debt EBITDA Ensuring acceptable return on investment within a 15% efficiency in the 1.0-2.0 x range.
corporate activity & Delivery of annual cost savings targets.
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an on-going basis.
15% efficiencies Delivery of synergies and return on investment following Ensuring that major acquisitions divestments deliver acquisitions or successful divestments when relevant.
against relevant synergy and return targets.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and three years versus Brand growth is key to longer term business growth.
20% markets in which they operate.
innovation Achieve each year the targeted proportion of revenue from Innovation is a key driver of productivity and growth.
10% innovation in previous three years.
corporate A range of metrics including improvements in accident Delivering results in a sustainable way which enhances 10% responsibility incident rates, reduced CO emissions & improved reputation and stakeholder engagement.
Dividend underpin To increase the dividend over the three years post-grant in Delivery of progressive dividend policy.
line with progressive dividend policy whilst maintaining dividend cover within 1.5-2.5 x range for the three years post-grant.
Measures and KPIs for 2014 15 are consistent with 2013 14 and support the long term strategy of the Group.
However certain weightings have been adjusted to reflect changes in relative priorities over the next 12 months.
The weighting for brand growth has been increased from 15% to 20% following a mixed performance in 2013 14 and the need to deliver improved growth next year.
The weighting for balance sheet efficiency has been reduced from 20% to 15% reflecting improved levels of gearing following the disposal of St. Hubert.
The LTAP maintains a 60% weighting of financial KPIs within the 2014 15 scorecard.
60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 sharesave scheme The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors.
Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a three-year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of 500 per month new maximum level with effect from 1 April 2014.
At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant.
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration members of the remuneration committee The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of non-executive Directors of the Company.
During the year the Committee consistedof: Stephen Alexander Chairman : Andrew Carr-Locke: and Sue Farr.
Anthony Fry, Company Chairman, Mark Allen, Chief Executive and Tom Atherton, Group Finance Director attend the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
the committees activities during the financial year The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad policy with respect to senior executives salary and other remuneration.
It specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
In 2013 14, the Committee met nine times.
Details of attendance are shown on page 37 and the Committee discussed, amongst others, the following matters: meeting agenda items discussed april Feedback from shareholder consultation on LTAP may Approval of 2012 13 bonus outcome Approval of 2013 14 bonus targets Implementation of LTAP Approval of remuneration report may Approval of LTAP rules June Review of 2013 LTAP outturn and progress on 2014 scorecard august Approval of LTAP grant for 2013 Determination of LTAP scorecard for 2014 november Update on new disclosure rules for remuneration report Review of Sharesave December Implications of new disclosure rules for remuneration report Renewal of share plan rules January Review of draft remuneration report march Review of potential bonus and long term incentive outcomes Review of draft remuneration report Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 61 Governance DIRECTORS REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED advisors to the remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee has appointed  LLP PwC to provide advice on executive remuneration.
PwC have provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors.
PwC have also supported the Remuneration Committee in the design of the LTAP, and in the preparation of new remuneration reporting disclosures under the BIS requirements.
In this financial year, they were paid 95,600 based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support, and programme management support.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to that groups Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR Director of Dairy Crest.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend all meetings by invitation, but are not present at any discussions relating specifically to their own remuneration.
statement of voting at General meeting The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2012 13 remuneration report at the 2013 AGM.
number of votes cast For against Withheld 72,025,249 68,441,703 3,583,546 29,543 95.02% 4.98% The Committee believes the 95.02% vote in favour of the remuneration report demonstrates the strength of support of shareholders for the executive remuneration arrangements at Dairy Crest.
The disclosure in the 2014 15 report will include details of the binding shareholder vote on the Directors Remuneration policy to be held at the 2014 AGM.
The Directors remuneration report from pages 45 to 62 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by stephen alexander Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 May 2014 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
