C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E D I RE C T O R S RE M U N E R A T I O N RE P O R T I N T R OD U C T I ON D E N NI S M I L L A R D Chairman, Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the performance share plan to better align theperformance measures used with ourkey strategic priorities.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 54 Details of the remuneration arrangements on remuneration.
The financial targets for Dear Shareholder pertaining to board changes are set out in the strategic measures are considered by On behalf of the Remuneration Committee the annual report on remuneration.
the board to be market sensitive.
However, the Committee, I am pleased to present details of progress against targets during our remuneration report for 2014.
Reward changes for 2015 the vesting period will be provided and This is the first year that the new The annual salary review date for the fully disclosed at the time ofvesting.
remuneration reporting regulations apply executive directors was previously No changes have been made to the usual to Debenhams and, to reflect this, the September of each year.
Going forward it annual bonus or PSP levels.
However, as Committee has restructured the will be 1April in line with the new single part of Suzanne Harlows appointment to remuneration report into two parts: annual review date for the rest of the the board, she will be awarded a PSP award management population.
Any increase The policy report This report will be of 150% of base salary for 2015 as an tosalaries from 1April 2015 will be put forward for a binding shareholder incentive to drive performance and to disclosed in next years annual report on vote at the Annual General Meeting recognise the increased scope of her role remuneration and may take into account on9December 2014.
The policy will on appointment to the board.
Suzannes the movement of the review date.
beeffective from this date ongoing remuneration package will consist The Committee has decided to base of an annual bonus of100% of base salary The annual report on remuneration theannual bonus for 2015 entirely on and a PSP award of 100% of base salary.
Thisreport will be subject to an advisory underlying PBT in order to simplify the shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM As part of Matt Smiths recruitment, he will planand to ensure that executives are be awarded a PSP award of 200% of base We hope that shareholders find the reports focused on increasing profit.
The Committee determined new format useful and informative.
During the year, the Committee reviewed that this level of award was appropriate the performance measures used for the Our performance in 2014 tocompensate him for awards forfeited on PSP awards and, after consultation with This year we have focused on the four leaving his previous employer no further ourlargest shareholders, the Committee strategic priorities that we outlined in buyout awards have been made and to has decided for the 2015 awards to retain ourupdate to the market in April and provide an additional incentive to drive the ROCE, in the form of an underpin to the theboard believes we are making good performance of the business in the initial newly introduced financial measures that progress towards achieving these goals.
Matts ongoing are linked to the business strategy.
remuneration package will consist of an The retail marketplace, however, remains annual bonus of 100% of base salary and The Committee has introduced strategic highly competitive and the profit before tax aPSP award of 100% ofbase salary.
measures in order toalign further the PBT, like-for-like sales and gross margin interests of senior management with our targets set for the annual bonus were not The Committee continues to believe that key strategic priorities as outlined by the achieved and therefore no bonus was paid executive remuneration arrangements are Chief Executive at the interim results to executive directors in respect of 2014. structured to support the delivery of our presentation in April 2014.
The weighting of strategic priorities and no further changes Performance Share Plan PSP awards the measures for 2015 will be underlying are proposed at this time.
We will continue granted during 2011 were based 75% on EPS growth 70% and strategic measures to keep the structure of remuneration EPS growth and 25% on average ROCE 30%.
The strategic measures selected for arrangements under review.
relative to the cost of capital.
The EPS awards to be granted in 2015 outlined element of the award has not triggered below are equally weighted and financial Dennis Millard vesting.
ROCE exceeded the cost of capital in nature: Chairman, Remuneration Committee by 4.1%.
Therefore, 22% of the awards will Group gross margin improvement vest in November2014.
Online EBITDA growth rate Board changes Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director, UK gross transaction value growth was appointed to the board on International EBITDA growth rate 11December 2013: she joined Debenhams in 1994 and has held the role of Group As mentioned above, the vesting of Trading Director since 2008.
Simon Herrick strategic measures will be subject to leftthe Company on 7February 2014. meeting a ROCE underpin explained in On28 July 2014 the Company announced more detail later in this report.
Further that Matt Smith will join the board as Chief details on the rationale for the selection of Financial Officer upon the satisfaction these measures and the EPS performance ofhis contractual obligations at his target for awards to be granted in respect currentemployer.
of 2015 are provided in the annual report Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 55 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E D I RE C T O R S RE M U N E R A T I O N RE P O R T R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY This remuneration report for the year ended 30 August 2014 Reward philosophy Our reward philosophy is that complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK remuneration arrangements should be set at a level that is Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized considered by the Remuneration Committee to be sufficient to Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to run the as amended and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance business without paying more than isnecessary to do so.
Alignment with our business strategy Remuneration structures are designed to support the business strategy with the majority Link between remuneration and strategy ofthe remuneration package being linked to the delivery of Our executive remuneration policy has been designed to support performance, paid in a combination of cash and shares.
our Group strategy: Short-term and long-term performance measures have been Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Base salary Supports the recruitment Paid in cash Whilst there is no defined maximum salary, any base salary increases None and retention of executive will normally be in line with the increases awarded to other employees Normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 April but may be reviewed directors ofthecalibre of theGroup more or less frequently at the Committees discretion required to fulfil the However, increases may bemade outside of this policy in exceptional In determining base salaries, the Committee considers: role without paying more circumstances, such as: Pay levels at companies of a similar sizeand complexity and other than is considered Where a director is appointed on a salary that is at the lower end FTSE 350 retailers necessary to do so of the market practice range, larger increases may be awarded Rewards executives forthe External market conditions as the executive gains experience to move the salary closer to performance oftheir role amore typical marketlevel Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group Where there has been a change in the responsibility and The individuals skills, knowledge andexperience accountability of the role Where there has been a significant change in market practice Details of current salary levels are set out in the annual report onremuneration Pension Provides funds to allow In determining pension arrangements, the Committee takes into account relevant The Chief Executives annual cash pension allowance is 20% None executives to save market practice and practice throughout the Group ofbasesalary forretirement Executive directors are generally provided a cash allowance inlieuofa pension The annual pension contribution for the Chief Financial Officer is 15% Provides a market provision or acontribution to a defined contribution pension scheme of base salary competitive However, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will The Group Trading Directors annual pension allowance increases retirement benefit operate for new appointments to theboard if considered appropriate.
If an based onher pensionable years service and age.
The allowance Incentive and alternative pension arrangement is provided, this will generally be of a similar level iscurrently 17% of base salary increasing to 18% upon 20 years retention tool to current arrangements pensionable service and to 23% at age 50.
The maximum annual allowance of28% of base salary is payable from age55 The Chief Executive is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan and the Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in service of the The Chief Executive ceased to accrue benefits under the Debenhams Debenhams Executive Pension Plan Executive Pension Plan in 2006 The Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in service of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The plan ceased forfuture service accruals in 2006 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 56 selected to be aligned with the delivery of our business Remuneration policy table for executive directors strategy.
Market conditions are also taken into consideration The table below sets out a summary of our remuneration policyfor when setting pay.
This policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM on 9 December 2014 and willtake effect Alignment with shareholders Variable remuneration from that date.
opportunity is generally delivered through the Companys long-term share incentive plans and the cash annual bonus.
Further information regarding the implementation of the policy TheCommittee operates a shareholding guideline policy for for2015 can be found in the annual report on remuneration executive directors which aligns the interests of executives with commencing on page 69. our shareholders and demonstrates the executives ongoing commitment tothe business.
Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
The plan ceased forfuture service accruals in 2006 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 57 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Benefits To provide a Executive directors have a benefits allowance which can beused to fund The overall value of benefits will depend onthe individuals None market-competitive a range of benefits.
The wider management population also receive a cash circumstances and the cost of providing them by the Company and level of benefits for benefits allowance therefore thereis nomaximum.
However, the executive directors executive directors participation in any all-employee share plans will be in line with Executive directors may participate in any all-employee share plans which may relevant statutory limits beoperated by the Company on the same terms as other employees It is the Committees policy to provide benefits at a market Executive directors receive life assurance and an annual health assessment.
competitive level taking into account local market practice TheChief Executive also receives afinancial planning allowance, travel allowance inthelocation in which the executive director operates and afuel allowance Executive directors may also buy or sell a weeks holiday with the approval of theCommittee Executive directors are eligible to receive a staff discount in line with other senior executives The Committee may determine that executive directors should receive additional reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice Executive directors may be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Company may settle the tax incurred inrelation tothese Where an executive director is required to relocate to perform their role, they maybe provided with reasonable benefits as determined by the Committee inconnection with this relocation on either a one-off or ongoing basis, including any expatriate benefits such as housing, travel or education allowances Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, bonuses arepaid in cash Maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary The Committee determines appropriate performance the achievement of following the year end metrics to support the annual business strategy, external The bonus starts accruing from threshold levels annual objectives which expectations and the enhancement of shareholder value Bonuses are not pensionable of performance are aligned with key on an annual basis Malus provisions apply see page 62 for furtherinformation financial and strategic Typically, 100% of the bonus will be based on financial Bonuses are based on annual performance targets goals and supports performance targets.
However, the Committee retains theenhancement The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the bonus award if it does not the discretion to alter the performance measures for ofshareholder value consider that it reflects underlying Company performance but may not exceed future bonuses if deemed appropriate including the themaximum policy limit introduction of non-financial measures.
In such cases atleast 80% of the bonus will be based on financial performance targets For 2015 the bonus is based 100% on underlying PBT Further information in relation to the performance measures for 2015 is set out in the annual report onremuneration Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 58 Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
In such cases atleast 80% of the bonus will be based on financial performance targets For 2015 the bonus is based 100% on underlying PBT Further information in relation to the performance measures for 2015 is set out in the annual report onremuneration Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 59 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Performance Incentivises executives Awards normally vest based on performance assessed over aperiod not shorter The maximum value of shares over which an individual can be granted Awards granted in 2015 will vest subject to a combination Share Plan to achieve Debenhams than three years an award in any one financial year of the Company is normally 200% of underlying EPS and strategic performance measures PSP long-term strategy ofbase salary, although this limit may be increased to 250% of base all of which are financial in nature.
The vesting of the Awards may only vest to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the underlying and create sustainable salary inexceptional circumstances.
The Committee will, however, strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a financial performance of the Company over the relevant performance period shareholder value take into consideration awards made under other plans when ROCE underpin.
The Committee may also decrease the final vesting level if it does granting awards under the plan Aligns with shareholder not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company The Committee retains the discretion to alter the interests through the Typically 25% of awards vest for threshold levels of performance performance measures for future awards if it deems Awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options.
Where awards are delivery of shares appropriate.
However, the Committee will endeavour in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants may haveup to six months from For details of award levels for 2015 see the annual report toconsult with the Companys largest shareholders prior Acts as a retention tool vesting to exercise awards onremuneration to doing so, other than for minor changes Malus provisions apply see page 62 for furtherinformation Strategic measures will account for no more than 30% Awards may incorporate the right to receive in cash or shares the value of the offuture awards dividends that would have been paid on the shares that vest.
However, it is not The Committee sets performance targets each year, thecurrent intention of the Committee that dividend equivalents will be paid taking into account the business plan, external onshares that vest expectations and market practice For further information in relation to the performance measures, weightings and targets for awards tobegranted in 2015 see the annual report onremuneration Executive directors also have a shareholding guideline.
discretion to operate these plans in exceptional circumstances or Furtherdetails are provided on page 70 of the Annual Report in future years if it considers it to be appropriate and in the best onRemuneration.
Any use of these plans upon recruitment of an executive would be within the variable pay limit excluding The table below sets out details of other plans that the Company buyout awards referred to in the Recruitment remuneration has in place.
It is not currently intended that these plans will be arrangements section of this report.
However, the Committee retains the Purpose and link to Element remuneration policy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Deferred Bonus Incentivises executives The Committee can invite participants toinvest up to 100% of their net annual Maximum matching awards may be made up to the equivalent If this plan were operated, appropriate performance Matching Plan toachieve Debenhams bonus.
Thenet bonus is used to purchase market shares which are then of100%of the executives net bonus conditions would be determined by the Committee DBMP long-term strategy and designated invested shares atthe time of award and disclosed in the annual report Typically 25% of the matching award vests forthreshold levels create sustainable on remuneration for that year If the participant remains in employment and retains the invested shares for three ofperformance shareholder value years, they may receive a matching award ofup to the gross amount of the bonus Aligns executives deferred subject to performance conditions being met over a period of no less interests with shareholders thanthree years through the investment Matching awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options.
Where of their cash bonus awards are in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants have up to six months into shares from vesting to exercise awards The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company Executive Incentivises executives Awards would take the form of market value options over ordinary shares in The maximum award that can be made under the plan is 100% of If this plan were operated, appropriate performance Share Option toachieve Debenhams theCompany base salary face value of options based on the share price at the date conditions would be determined by the Committee at Plan ESOP long-term strategy and ofgrant.
The Committee will take into consideration awards made the time of award and disclosed in the annual report on Awards would be subject to performance assessed over aperiod of no less than create sustainable under the PSP when granting awards under the plan remuneration for that year three years shareholder value Awards may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved options up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 60 Purpose and link Element tostrategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
However, it is not The Committee sets performance targets each year, thecurrent intention of the Committee that dividend equivalents will be paid taking into account the business plan, external onshares that vest expectations and market practice For further information in relation to the performance measures, weightings and targets for awards tobegranted in 2015 see the annual report onremuneration Purpose and link to Element remuneration policy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
The Committee will take into consideration awards made the time of award and disclosed in the annual report on Awards would be subject to performance assessed over aperiod of no less than create sustainable under the PSP when granting awards under the plan remuneration for that year three years shareholder value Awards may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved options up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED Notes to the policy table Malus Bonus The Committee reserves the right to scale back bonuses if there has been a material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results during a prior year.
Performance Share Plan For awards granted in 2014 onwards, the Committee reserves the right to reduce, cancel and or impose further conditions on some or all unvested awards under the PSP in circumstances in which the Committee considers such action is appropriate.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, a material misstatement of the Groups audited results.
Malus provisions do not currently apply to awards under the other long-term incentive plans.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to introduce such provisions if it considers it appropriate.
The Companys incentive arrangements do not currently have clawback.
The Committee is aware of the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code which require clawback provisions to be in place for variable elements of pay with effect from nolater than the Companys 2016 financial year.
The Committee will consider introducing clawback provisions when a new PSP is implemented in 2016.
Annual bonus performance measures The Committee sets annual bonus performance targets annually based on the measures that it feels are the most appropriate for thebusiness.
Annual bonus targets are set with reference to internal forecasts and market consensus.
Information in relation to the performance measures used for 2015 has been set out in the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee considers that the annual bonus targets for 2015 are market sensitive and have therefore not been disclosed in this report.
Details of performance against targets and any resulting annual bonus payout will be included in next years annual report onremuneration.
Performance Share Plan performance measures For 2015 awards, the Committee has chosen to use a combination of underlying EPS 70% and strategic measures 30%.
The vesting of the strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a ROCE underpin.
The Committee mayuse different measures or a different balance of measures in future years if it considers that it is appropriate to do so.
In light of the ongoing challenges in the UK retail sector and our evolving business strategy, the Committee decided that it was appropriate to amend the performance measures attached to 2015 PSP awards to ensure that they were fully aligned with this strategy and to incentivise management to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
At the 2014 interim results, ChiefExecutive Michael Sharp set out our strategic priorities in support of the four pillars of our strategy.
The financial strategic objectives for the PSP have been selected to support these priorities directly.
Details of the specific measures, weightings and targets applying to the PSP awards to be made in 2015 are disclosed in the annualreport on remuneration.
Threshold vesting for PSP awards made prior to 2015 is 30%.
Difference from the remuneration policy for all employees Debenhams employs a large number of people in a variety of roles across a range of geographies.
Our reward framework for the business is altered as necessary to suit the needs of the business for different employee groups.
Reward packages therefore differ, taking into account a number of appropriate factors including seniority, impact on the business and local practice, custom andlegislation.
Other information supporting the policy table The Committee may amend the terms of awards or the rules of share plans within the scope defined in the rules of the plans.
For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue orother event which may, in the Committees opinion, affect the current or future value of awards, the number of awards and the exercise price applicable to those awards may be adjusted.
The Committee may amend the conditions applicable to share awards if it considers that the amended conditions are a fairer measure of performance and at least as challenging as the original conditions.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 62 Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The charts below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2015.
The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value of each component.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Below threshold performance Fixed remuneration No annual bonus payout No vesting under the PSP Mid-range performance Fixed remuneration 50% annual bonus payout 50% vesting under the PSP Maximum performance Fixed remuneration 100% annual bonus payout 100% vesting under the PSP Fixed pay currently comprises the following elements: Current base salary Benefits Pension Total Chief Executive Michael Sharp 615,000 34,999 123,000 772,999 Chief Financial Officer Matt Smith not employed during 2014 400,000 18,375 60,000 478,375 Group Trading Director Suzanne Harlow 400,000 22,195 68,000 490,195 Base salary is the base salary in place at 1 September 2014.
Salary levels may be subject to changes following the annual base salary review in early 2015.
Any changes will be effective from 1 April 2015.
The salary for the Chief Financial Officer will apply from the point he joins the Company.
The benefits figure for the Chief Executive is based on the amount received during 2014 as per the single figure.
This reflects his annual benefits allowance and the taxable value of other benefits provided during the year.
For the Chief Financial Officer and Group Trading Director the benefits number is the value of their respective annual benefits allowances.
For 2014, the Chief Financial Officer was not a member of the board and so did not receive any benefits.
The Group Trading Director was only a member of the board for part of the year.
Pension is based on the cash contribution of 20% of base salary for the Chief Executive, 15% of base salary for the Chief Financial Officer and 17% for the Group Trading Director.
Bonus is based on the ongoing annual policy maximum of 100% of base salary for all executive directors.
PSP is based on the ongoing usual annual policy maximum of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for other executive directors.
During 2015 the Chief Financial Officer and Group Trading Director will receive higher one-off awards.
Thisis not reflected in the chart.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED The scenarios below do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Maximum performance 33% 27% 40% 2.31m Maximum performance 38% 31% 31% 1.28m Mid-range performance 50% 20% 30% 1.54m Mid-range performance 54% 23% 23% 0.88m Below target performance Below target performance 100% 0.77m 100% 0.48m 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m Group Trading Director Fixed Short-term incentives annual bonus Long-term incentives PSP Fixed Short-term incentives annual bonus Long-term incentives PSP Maximum performance 38% 31% 31% 1.29m Mid-range performance 55% 22.5% 22.5% 0.89m Below target performance 100% 0.49m 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m Fixed Short-term incentives annual bonus Long-term incentives PSP Recruitment remuneration arrangements When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The structure of the ongoing remuneration package would normally include some or all of the components set out in the policy table for executive directors.
In addition, the Committee has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the specific circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The key terms and rationale for any such component would be disclosed as appropriate in that years annual report on remuneration.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining any such buyout, the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like-for-like basis unless this is considered by the Committee not to be practical or appropriate.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buyout awards referred to above in respect ofrecruitment is 350% of salary, which is in line with the current maximum limit under the annual bonus and PSP.
Where awards are made under the ESOP, the value of the award that counts towards this maximum will be calculated on an expected value rather than a face value basis.
Where an executive director is required to relocate from their home location to take up their role, the Committee may provide assistance with relocation either via one-off or ongoing payments or benefits.
In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
To facilitate any buyout awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment the Committee may grant awards to a new executive director relying on the exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment ofan executive director, without seeking prior shareholder approval or under any other appropriate Company incentive plan.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for non-executive directors.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 64 Executive director service contracts Notice period 12 months notice by the Company or by the executive director Michael Sharp entered into his current service agreement with the Company on 3 May 2006 Matt Smith entered into a service agreement with the Company on 25 July 2014 Suzanne Harlow entered into her current service agreement with the Company on 11 December 2013 Expiry date All are rolling contracts with no expiry date Payments in lieu of notice will be based on base salary, contractual benefits and any accrued but untaken holiday Payments in lieu of notice for Michael Sharp and Suzanne Harlow will be paid as a lump sum following termination.
However, the Committee would seek to apply mitigation in respect of the period and amount where appropriate Termination payments Payments in lieu of notice for Matt Smith may, at the Committees discretion, be paid asa lump sum or in equal monthly instalments which would be subject to mitigation Legal fees and outplacement services may also be provided for executive directors leaving the business The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Arrangements for directors leaving Debenhams Details of the arrangements in relation to fixed remuneration are set out in the section above.
Annual bonus There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus in the year in which the executive director leaves the Group.
The Committee maydetermine that an executive director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the year of cessation dependent upon the circumstances of the executive directors departure and individual performance.
Any such payment would normally continue to besubject to performance and pro-rated to take account of the time served during the year.
Long-term incentives The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
2006 Performance Share Plan If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group or gives or is given notice terminating their employment before the end of the performance period, a participants award will usually lapse, unless the Committee determines that it will vest, having regard to the performance of the Company and the length of time which has elapsed since the date of grant.
The Committee may determine that the award will vest at the time of cessation of employment or at the normal vesting date.
The number of shares over which an award may vest will be time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed on cessation of employment.
In the case of nil cost options, the Committee will determine the period during which the participant may exercise his or her options.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group, options will lapse unless theoption holder leaves in good leaver circumstances, namely in respect of tax approved options: injury or disability, retirement, the sale of their employing entity out of the Group, redundancy or any other reason that the Committee decides and in respect ofunapproved options, in such circumstances as the Committee may determine.
If these good leaver circumstances apply, the options will be exercisable for a period of six months from the date of cessation, or such other period as the Committee determines.
Where options become exercisable as a result of the individuals cessation of employment, the extent to which the options will be exercisable will be subject to the performance conditions applicable to the options and will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion ofthe vesting period that has elapsed on cessation of employment.
If a participant dies, their representatives shall have 12 months from death to exercise their options in full.
2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan In the event of cessation of employment with a member of the Group, matching awards willusually lapse.
However, the Committee may determine that a matching award will vest at the normal time, to the extent that the performance conditions have been met and on a time pro-rated basis to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed atthe time of cessation.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may determine that matching awards may be released before theend of the original performance period to the extent determined by the Committee, having regard to the time pro-rating formula described above.
In these circumstances, invested shares are released from the plan at the time the related matching award vests.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED Takeover or merger of the Company 2006 Performance Share Plan In the event of a takeover or merger of the Company, outstanding PSP awards will vest to the extent that performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards vest in these circumstances, they may be pro-rated on a monthly basis to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed, unless the Committee determines that a different proportion of the awardshould vest, taking into account Company performance and such other factors as it considers relevant.
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their awards into awards in the acquiring company.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan In the event of a change of control of the Company, outstanding ESOP awards will generally become exercisable to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied and the number of shares subject to the options willbe pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed to the nearest whole month unless the Committee determines that a higher proportion of the options should vest.
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their options into options in the acquiring company.
2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan In the event of a takeover or voluntary winding up of the Company, matching awards will vest tothe extent that the performance conditions have been met or, if the Committee considers it appropriate, to the extent that the performance conditions would have been met at the end of the original performance period, in the Committees opinion.
Invested sharesno longer have to be retained.
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their awards into awards in the acquiringcompany.
Other corporate events 2006 Performance Share Plan If the Company is voluntarily wound up, the Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis asset out above for a takeover.
If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend or other transaction which would materially affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow some or all of the outstanding awards to vest to the extent the performance conditions applicable to these awards have or are likely to have been met, in the Committees opinion.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend or other transaction which in the Committees opinion is likely to affect the current or future value of any options, the Committee may allow options to be exercised, taking into account the performance conditions, the period that has elapsed since grant and any other factors it considers relevant.
If the Company is voluntarily wound up, options may be exercised to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
External appointments for executive directors Executive directors may undertake external directorships with the consent of the board.
Any proposed external directorships are considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest.
The executive directors do not currently hold any such directorships.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 66 Remuneration policy table for non-executive directors Purpose and link to What is the maximum Element remuneration policy Key features operation potential value?
Fees Fees for non-executive Paid in cash Fees paid to non-executive directors are set at an directors and the nonFees for non-executive directors are set appropriate level to recruit executive Chairman will not taking into account the time commitment and retain directors of a exceed the aggregate limit set required to fulfil the role and typical sufficient calibre without out in the Companys articles practice at other companies of a similar paying more than is necessary of association, currently size and complexity to Debenhams to do so 1million The fees for the Chairmans role are set Fee levels for 2015 are set out taking into account the time commitment in the annual report on of the role, the skills and experience of remuneration theindividual and typical market practice for other companies of a similar size andcomplexity Our non-executive director fees policy is to pay a basic fee for membership of the board and additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, chairmanship of a committee and membership of a committee to take into account the additional responsibilities and time commitment of these roles Additional fees may be paid to reflect additional board or committee responsibilities as appropriate Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals by the board Benefits and To provide suitable Reasonable costs in relation to travel and None expenses arrangements to allow accommodation for business purposes non-executive directors are reimbursed to the Chairman and todischarge their non-executive directors.
The Company dutieseffectively may meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses The Chairman and non-executive directors are eligible for a staff discount and an annual health assessment The Chairman and non-executive directors are not entitled to participate inany of the Groups incentive plans or pension plans The Chairman and non-executive directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance and provision of indemnity on the same basis as other directors and officers of other Group companies The board may introduce additional benefits for the Chairman or nonexecutive directors if it is considered appropriate to do so Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED Terms and conditions for the Chairman and non-executive directors Nigel Northridge was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 1 January 2010 and became Chairman on 1 April 2010.
His appointment as Chairman is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 28 January 2010 and his initial appointment was for three years ending on 31 March 2013.
This was extended by mutual agreement for a further three years to 31March 2016 and may be extended by further terms of three years by mutual agreement.
The Chairmans appointment may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 or upon the Chairmans resignation.
In the event that the Chairmans appointment is terminated early, there will be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term.
The Chairman is permitted to hold other directorships provided that any such appointment does not interfere with his position at the Company.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment from theCompany covering matters such as duties, time commitment, fees and other business interests.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three years which may be extended for further terms of three years by mutual agreement.
Both Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were appointed for a further three years to31July 2015 following the end of their initial engagement on 31 July 2012.
Mark Rolfe was appointed for a further three years to 30September 2016 following the end of his initial engagement on 1October 2013.
Dennis Millard was appointed on 9 May 2006 and following two three year terms his appointment has been extended on an annual basis.
Non-executive director appointments may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 or upon the directors resignation.
In the event that a non-executive directors appointment is terminated early, there will be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term.
Dennis Millards appointment may be terminated by either party giving one months notice.
Dennis Millard is not eligible for any payment in lieu of notice.
All appointments are subject to the Companys Articles of Association and the annual re-election by shareholders.
The service agreements for non-executive directors are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Considering all-employee remuneration arrangements When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures throughout the Group are appropriately aligned and that levels of remuneration remain appropriate in this context.
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase across theGroup.
Whilst the Committee does not consult with employees about executive director pay, the Committee is provided with anannual update of the Debenhams employee survey which includes questions on their own remuneration.
The remuneration arrangements for the members of the Executive Committee who are not executive directors fall within the Committees remit engendering a common approach to the design of reward and determining reward outcomes for the most seniorpeople within the organisation.
Considering shareholder views The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes arebeing made to remuneration arrangements.
Over the last few years the Committee has consulted with shareholders regarding theperformance measures for the PSP and the use of the DBMP.
The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders when formulating and implementing the policy as it has done this year when it consulted with major shareholders on the changes to the PSP performance measures.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 68 T HE A NN U A L R E P O R T O N R E M U NE R A T IO N This report sets out details of the implementation of the remuneration policy during 2014 and provides details as to how the Committee intends to implement the policy during 2015.
This part of the report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Thisreport contains unaudited information except where stated that it is audited.
What did executive directors earn in respect of 2014 and 2013?
audited The table below sets out a single figure of remuneration for each executive director for 2014 and 2013.
2014 2013 Executive Base Retirement PSP Base Retirement PSP director salary Benefits benefits Bonus awards Total salary Benefits benefits Bonus awards Total Michael Sharp Chief Executive 615,000 34,999 141,500 Nil 207,235 998,734 615,000 36,896 102,500 Nil Nil 754,396 Suzanne Harlow Group Trading 1 Director 289,743 11,687 54,554 Nil N A 355,984 N A N A N A N A N A N A Former directors Simon Herrick 2 former CFO 143,602 6,224 21,540 Nil Nil 171,366 410,000 18,375 61,500 Nil Nil 489,875 1 Appointed 11 December 2013.
The following provides details of how the single figure for 2014 has been calculated: Base salary The executive directors did not receive a salary increase for 2014.
Simon Herricks base salary is in respect of the period to2 January 2014.
Suzanne Harlows base salary is in respect of the period 11 December 2013 to 30 August 2014.
Benefits Executive directors receive a benefits allowance which can be used to purchase benefits under the Group scheme.
Inaddition, the executive directors receive life assurance.
The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, a travel allowance and a fuel allowance.
The value of the benefits allowance and the additional benefits is included in the table above.
The Group Trading Director used a part of her benefits allowance 7,692 to purchase an additional five days holiday during the year.
Thisamount has not been reflected in the above figures.
Retirement benefits Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The increase in his accrued pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the revised remuneration reporting regulations, was 18,500.
Michael Sharp received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary 123,000.
Suzanne Harlow is a deferred in service member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The increase in her accrued pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the revised remuneration reporting regulations, was 5,298.
Suzanne Harlow also received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 17% ofbase salary 49,256.
Simon Herrick received a cash contribution 21,540 in lieu of pension of 15% of base salary for the period in which he was employed.
PSPs due to vest in 2014 in respect of the performance period 4 September 2011 to 30 August 2014 The PSP value shown in the single figure is for the award expected to vest in November 2014.
The share price used to calculate the single figure is based onthe three month average share price to 30 August 2014 67.43 pence.
Threshold Maximum Performance target target Vesting measure Weighting 30% vests 100% vests Outcome % of maximum Absolute EPS growth per annum 75% 6% 12% -6.3% 0% 2011 PSP awards Average Average Average ROCE Average ROCE ROCE equal ROCE equal exceeded the vs the cost to the cost to the cost of cost of capital of capital 25% of capital capital plus 5% by 4.1% 22% Suzanne Harlow also received a PSP award in 2011 but this has not been included in the single figure as it was granted prior to her becoming an executive director.
Annual bonus for 2014 The maximum bonus for the year was 100% of base salary.
The bonus for the period was based 80% on PBT and 20% on a like-for-like sales growth and gross margin percentage matrix.
Bonuses start accruing for meeting threshold levels of performance, with the maximum bonus only being payable for achieving performance significantly in excess of this level.
The PBT target set was not met and the like-for-like sales and gross margin performance targets were not achieved.
No bonus was therefore paid in respect of 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 69 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D Pensions audited Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The table below shows the pension accrued at the year end.
Transfer value Transfer value as at as at Increase 30 August 1 September in accrued Accumulated 2014 of 2013 of Increase pension total accrued accrued accrued in accrued during Increase in pension at pension as at pension as at pension the year transfer value 30 August 30 August 1 September during net of during the 2014 2014 2013 the year inflation period Michael Sharp 211,476 6,584,718 5,656,919 6,460 925 927,799 Suzanne Harlow 38,895 916,800 772,367 1,279 265 144,433 Michael Sharp participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan a defined benefit plan until 2006 when he ceased to participate in the plan and is now a deferred member of this scheme.
His normal retirement date under this plan is 31 March 2017.
He is not entitled to any additional benefits if he retires prior to this date: any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement.
He also receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 20% of base salary.
Suzanne Harlow participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan until 2006 when it was closed to future accruals and is now adeferred in service member of this scheme.
Her normal retirement date under this plan is 31 July 2026.
She is not entitled to any additional benefits if she retires prior to this date: any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement.
Shealso receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 17% of base salary.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited No long-term incentive awards were granted during 2014.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders and to demonstrate the executive directors ongoing personal financial commitment to the business, executive directors are expected to build and maintain a holding of Debenhams shares equal to one times base salary.
Executives are expected to retain 50% of any post-tax shares that vest under any share incentive plans until this shareholding is reached.
The Committee expects executives to have met the shareholding guideline policy by the fifth anniversary of their appointment as an executive director or the introduction of the guidelines, if later.
The value of their current shareholding shown in the table below has been calculated using the three month average closing share price to the end of August 2014 and includes the net value of shares vested but not exercised under the Executive Share Option Plan.
Ordinary Ordinary shares held shares held Unvested Unvested as at as at awards options Vested Shareholding Current 30 August 1 September subject to subject to options not requirement shareholding Requirement 2014 2013 performance performance exercised met?
Michael Sharp Chief 1 1 Executive 6,460,067 6,360,067 2,391,314 0 473,961 615,000 4,539,492 Yes Suzanne Harlow Group Trading 2 Director 545,366 545,366 689,582 0 169,689 400,000 440,417 Yes Former directors Simon Herrick 3 CFO 34,900 34,900 0 0 0 410,000 N A N A 1 Shareholding includes 374,392 ordinary shares held by The Sharp Discretionary Settlement of which Michael Sharp is a trustee.
2 Ordinary shares held at appointment to the board on 11 December 2013.
3 As at date of resignation from the board 2 January 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 70 Scheme interests audited Performance Share Plan Number Number of shares Shares Shares Shares of shares Market Expiry held at awarded forfeited exercised held at value Earliest date of Date of 1 September during during during 30 August on date date of vesting Director award 2013 the year the year the year 2014 of award vesting period 1 November 2011 1,396,973 0 0 0 1,396,973 64.43 1.11.14 1.5.
16 Executive Share Option Plan Number Number of shares Shares Shares Shares of shares held at granted lapsed vested held at Earliest Expiry Date of 1 September during during during 30 August Option date of date of award 2013 the year the year the year 2014 price exercise options Approved scheme 24 November 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19 Michael Sharp Unapproved scheme 24 November 2009 438,853 0 0 0 438,853 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19 Approved scheme 24 November 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19 Suzanne Harlow Unapproved scheme 24 November 2009 134,581 0 0 0 134,581 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19 Payments to past directors audited No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office audited Simon Herricks service agreement contained a notice period of 12 months.
From 2 January 2014 monthly payments in lieu of notice commenced, based on a base salary of 410,000, a flexible benefits payment of 18,375 per annum and an annual pension contribution of 61,500: a total of 489,875 per annum.
He was also provided with life assurance cover.
Simon Herrick continues to receive these amounts in 12 monthly instalments: however, should he receive any payments as a result of alternative employment or provision of services during this period, other than in respect of one non-executive position, subsequent instalments will be reduced by the amount of such payments.
TheCompany also agreed to a payment of up to 10,000 plus VAT in respect of his legal fees and a 10,000 plus VAT contribution to outplacement support.
The Committee agreed to these payments toassist in a smooth succession process forthe benefit of the business.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D Simon Herrick did not receive a bonus in respect of 2014.
All unvested awards under the PSP were forfeited.
Total shareholder return performance graph The performance graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR against the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over the period from 29 August 2009 to 30 August 2014.
The General Retailers Index has been chosen as Debenhams has been a member throughout the period and it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail competitors including major general retail listed comparators inthe principal product areas in which the Company trades.
250 200 150 100 50 0 29 Aug 09 28 Aug 10 3 Sep 11 1 Sep 12 31 Aug 13 30 Aug 14 Source: DataStream Debenhams FTSE 350 General Retailers Historical Chief Executive pay The table below sets out details of the Chief Executives pay for the current year and the previous four years and the payout of incentive awards as a proportion of the maximum opportunity for each period.
The Chief Executives pay is calculated as per the single figure of remuneration shown on page 69.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Single figure of total remuneration 1,477,607 1,044,515 1,288,857 754,396 998,734 Annual variable element award rates against maximum opportunity 100% 33.3% 40% 0% 0% Long-term incentive vesting rates against PSP: 32% maximum opportunity N A N A ESOP: 100% N A 22% The Chief Executive position for the period 2009-2011 was held by Rob Templeman.
The Chief Executive position for 2012-2014 has been held by the current incumbent Michael Sharp who previously held the role of Deputy Chief Executive.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The change in remuneration from 2013 to 2014 of the Chief Executive and the Groups UK employee population is shown below.
This group has been chosen as the comparator group as the majority of Debenhams employees are based in the UK.
UK Chief employees Executive Average FTE Base salary 0% 3% Benefits -5% 9% Bonus -% -100% No bonus was paid to the Chief Executive in respect of 2013 and 2014.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below sets out the amounts paid in 2013 and 2014 in respect of the remuneration of all employees and dividends toshareholders.
profit before tax Dividends declared during the year Overall expenditure on remuneration for all employees m 400 1.6% 300 200 24% 100 0.5% 0 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 72 Implementation of the remuneration policy for executive directors in 2015 Components of remuneration The following table provides a summary of the different elements of pay that will be operated for 2015.
Fixed pay Base salary benefits pension Short-term performance Long-term performance Performance-related pay Cash bonus one year Performance share plan three year 100% financial 70% EPS growth, 30% strategic measures Base salary Executive director salaries as at 1 September 2014 are as follows: Chief Executive, Michael Sharp 615,000 Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith 400,000 Group Trading Director, Suzanne Harlow 400,000 Salary to be paid upon joining the Company.
The annual salary review date for the executive directors going forward will be 1 April in line with the new single annual review date ofthe rest of the management population and may take into account the movement in the review date.
Annual bonus The Committee has decided to base the annual bonus for 2015 entirely on underlying profit before tax in order to simplify the plan and to ensure that executives are focused on increasing profit.
Specific targets are not disclosed because they are considered to be market sensitive by the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of base salary, payable in cash.
The bonus will begin accruing for delivering threshold levels of performance with the maximum bonus only being payable on the delivery of performance significantly in excess of plan.
Debenhams Performance Share Plan It is intended that a PSP award will be granted to the Chief Executive of 150% of base salary for 2014, in line with the usual limit.
For the first year of his appointment, the Chief Financial Officer will be awarded a PSP award of 200% of base salary.
The Committee determined that this level of award was appropriate to compensate him for awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer no further buyout awards have been made and to provide an additional incentive to drive the performance of the business in the initial period of his tenure.
His normal annual PSP award will be 100% of base salary.
As part of her appointment to the board, the Group Trading Director will be awarded a 2014 PSP award of 150% of base salary as an incentive to drive performance and to recognise the increased scope of her role on appointment to the board.
Her normal annual PSP award will be 100% of base salary.
In light of both the ongoing challenges within the UK retail sector and our evolving business strategy, the Committee has decided thatit is appropriate to amend the performance measures attached to 2015 PSP awards to ensure that they are fully aligned with ourstrategy and to incentivise management to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D Going forward, awards will be based 70% on absolute underlying EPS growth targets and 30% on financial measures that underpin our strategy.
The Committee feels that it is important that EPS is retained as the primary measure for the PSP to ensure management is incentivised to continue to drive sustainable earnings improvement and is rewarded for generating bottom line value for shareholders.
At the 2014 interim results, Chief Executive Michael Sharp set out the strategic priorities in support of our strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand.
Financial strategic objectives for the PSP have therefore been selected to reflect these priorities under the four pillars of the strategy.
These measures, and their relevance and linkage to the strategy, are as follows: Strategic measures for 2015: Proposed metric Key strategic pillars 7.5% of award each Rationale Delivering a compelling Group gross margin improvement We have commenced a programme to refocus our customer proportion approach to promotions which, over time, will result in areduction of the number of days we are on promotion as well as improving clarity around value.
The result will be higher full price sales and lower markdown.
This will ultimately lead to an increase in Group gross margin which the Committee believes is an appropriate measure of the success of this strategy.
Increasing availability and choice Online EBITDA growth rate Over the next three years we will be making significant through multi-channel changes to our multi-channel fulfilment operations to improve convenience and cost effectiveness.
This will drive sales, allow us to recover a high proportion of delivery costs and achieve a significant reduction in thecostper unit of fulfilment.
The result of this work will be an improvement in the rate of online EBITDA growth which has therefore been adopted as a strategic measure.
Focusing on UK retail UK gross transaction value Currently c. 10% of our UK store space is sub-optimal in growth UKGTV terms of sales density.
We have set out a space optimisation plan to address this by introducing additional choice of products and brands in our stores to drive footfall, improve sales density and increase total sales.
This will enable us to improve the return on the store cost base.
The Committee believes UK GTV is an appropriate measure as it reflects increased sales through stores and recognises the importance of stores in generating multi-channel sales through maintaining Debenhams profile in the marketplace and as locations for click and collect.
Expanding the brand International EBITDA growth rate The international business will be a substantial and internationally growing part of Debenhams over next ten years.
Our existing international activities show that we have a credible, exportable proposition which has the capacity to generate significant shareholder value.
Through the PSP, management will be incentivised to continue to drive profit growth from the international business.
The intention is that the precise strategic measures used will be reviewed each year to ensure that they continue to be appropriate and aligned with strategy.
Each strategic measure will vest independently.
In order for the award to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award and, specifically, vesting of any strategic measure will be subject to a ROCE underpin.
The definition of ROCE has been refined from previous years and capital employed will include a capitalised value of future store rental payments and profitability items on a pre-rental basis.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 74 Having reviewed the EPS targets for the PSP the Committee decided to set the target range at 3% per annum 25% vesting to 10% per annum 100% vesting.
The Committee considers that these targets are appropriate in the context of the outlook for the UK retail sector over the next few years and believes that the current market consensus is at the lower end of this range.
Each financial strategic measure will be subject to a single performance test ie each measure will either vest at 0% or in full.
Financial strategic targets are specific, measurable and the performance hurdle is set at a level which is considered by the Committee to be sufficiently stretching.
The financial targets for the strategic measures are considered by the board to be market sensitive and therefore we will not disclose these measures at the current time.
However, indications of performance against strategic targets will be provided during the vesting period.
We will also disclose the targets in full, along with actual performance against targets, at the timeofvesting.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust currently holds 473,537 shares in the Company.
200,000 shares are held in the Trust to satisfy a potential award made under the Debenhams 2008 Share Incentive Plan a plan for employees who are not executive directors.
Dividends arising on the shares held in the Trust are waived on the recommendation of the Company.
Funding of share schemes It is the Companys current intention to satisfy any future requirements of its share schemes in a method best suited to the interests of the Company, either by utilising shares held as treasury shares, acquiring shares in the market or issuing new shares.
Where the awards are satisfied by newly issued shares or treasury shares, the Company will comply with Investment Management Association guidelines on shareholder dilution.
Current levels of shareholder dilution are 0.70% 2013: 0.83% of share capital.
What did non-executive directors earn in respect of 2014 and 2013?
audited The table below sets out the fees payable to each director not performing an executive function in respect of 2014 and 2013.
2014 2013 Fees Benefits Total Fees Benefits Total Nigel Non-executive Chairman, Chairman of 175,000 0 175,000 175,000 0 175,000 Northridge Nomination Committee, member of Remuneration Committee Dennis Senior Independent Director, Chairman of 65,000 0 65,000 65,000 0 65,000 Millard Remuneration Committee, member of Audit andNomination Committees Martina Chairman of sustainability committee, member 55,000 0 55,000 55,000 0 55,000 King of Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees Mark Rolfe Chairman of Audit Committee, member of 55,000 0 55,000 54,971 0 54,971 Remuneration and Nomination Committees Sophie Member of Remuneration, Audit and Nomination 47,500 0 47,500 47,500 0 47,500 Turner Laing Committees Peter Member of Audit Committee 42,500 0 42,500 38,494 0 38,494 Fitzgerald Stephen Member of Remuneration Committee 42,500 0 42,500 27,734 0 27,734 Ingham Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan or any long-term incentive plans.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D The total interests of the Chairman and non-executive directors in the share capital of the Company as at 30 August 2014 are shown below.
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary shares held shares held shares held as at as at as at 1 September 30 August 23 October Director 2013 2014 2014 Nigel Northridge 100,000 100,000 100,000 Peter Fitzgerald 0 0 0 Stephen Ingham 0 0 0 Martina King 10,000 10,000 10,000 Dennis Millard 69,455 69,455 69,455 Mark Rolfe 30,000 30,000 30,000 Sophie Turner Laing 20,000 20,000 20,000 Note: The information in the table above is audited.
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration policy in 2015 There were no changes to non-executive directors fees with effect from 1 September 2014.
Fees for the year are as follows: Basic fee 40,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 Committee chairmanship fee Audit and Remuneration 10,000 Committee chairmanship fee Sustainability 7,500 Committee membership fee per committee 2,500 Consideration of matters in relation to directors remuneration Committee members The Committee chairman, Dennis Millard, is joined by Nigel Northridge, Stephen Ingham, Martina King, Mark Rolfe and Sophie Turner Laing to form the Committee.
Details of the members background and experience is provided within their biography on pages 42 and43.
Number of meetings held and attended during the year Director Position ofthose eligible to attend Dennis Millard, Committee chairman Senior Independent Director 4 5 Stephen Ingham Independent non-executive director 5 5 Martina King Independent non-executive director 5 5 Nigel Northridge Independent non-executive Chairman 5 5 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 5 5 Sophie Turner Laing Independent non-executive director 5 5 Dennis Millard was unable to attend the meeting in June 2014 due to a family bereavement.
Role of the Committee The full terms of reference for the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website at http: debenhamsplc.
In summary, the Committee has responsibility for determining all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors and the Company Secretary together with the provisions of their service agreements, reviewing the bonus structure for the Executive Committee, reviewing the appropriateness and relevance of the Companys remuneration policy taking into account the remuneration arrangements and levels across the Company and administering all aspects of any share incentives in operation for senior management.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Companys Chairman and the executive members of the board.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 76 The Committees main activities during the year Approved the directors remuneration report for 2013 Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors 2014 bonuses Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors 2012 PSP awards Reviewed the executive remuneration strategy for 2015 Reviewed the operation of the PSP, in particular the performance measures for 2015 Approved the executive directors bonus plan for 2015 Agreed the leaver arrangements for Simon Herrick, the former Chief Financial Officer Agreed the remuneration package for the new Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith, and the Group Trading Director, Suzanne Harlow, upon her appointment to the board Evaluated the performance of the Committee Reviewed the revised reporting regulations and prepared a new look directors remuneration report Consulted with shareholders on certain aspects of the remuneration policy Performance evaluation of the Committee This years formal evaluation of the Committee was conducted by Lintstock Ltd, an external facilitator.
The Committee considered the results of the review at its meeting in October 2014 and concluded that the Committee continues to be effective, uses its time effectively and has the correct composition.
The quality of the information it receives was highly rated.
The review identified certain areas where the Committee would benefit from additional support and the Chairman and the Company Secretary are to look at these issues.
Advisors to the Committee In performing its duties, the Committee has received advice from Deloitte LLP Deloitte who acted as external advisors to the Committee throughout the financial year, providing independent advice on directors remuneration and share incentives.
The fees foradvice provided to the Committee during the financial year were 39,000.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consulting Group RCG and complies with the voluntary code ofconduct in respect of the provision of remuneration consulting services.
Deloitte provides industry and comparative employee remuneration data to Debenhams management.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory services in respect of corporate and employment taxes during the year.
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee.
It is the view of the Committee that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with Debenhams that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
During the year, the Committee undertook an evaluation of its advisors and concluded that the advice received is independent.
The Chief Executive and HR Director have attended certain Committee meetings and provided advice to the Committee during theyear.
They are not in attendance when matters relating to their own compensation or contracts are discussed.
Summary of shareholder voting Debenhams remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to directors remuneration, Debenhams would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following annual report and accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous report: For Against 2013 directors remuneration report December 2013 Annual General Meeting 99.58% 0.42% 9,629,523 votes were withheld in relation to this resolution c. 0.79% of share capital.
On behalf of the board Dennis Millard Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 October 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77
