Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 63 directors remuneration report directors remuneration report annual statement by the Chairman of the remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2014 including the remuneration policy on which shareholders will be asked to vote separately for the first time at the 2014 AGM in September.
In 2014, the Committee has continued to engage actively with shareholders on our executive remuneration arrangements.
We have fully considered shareholder feedback and acted upon their views in drawing up our reward policy.
Shareholder concern on the complexity of Diageos long term incentive plans has been addressed in the new single plan we are proposing which simplifies our long term incentive arrangements and reinforces alignment with Diageos business strategy and shareholders interests.
The structure and content of our 2014 policy and annual remuneration report keeps our reporting clear and transparent, building on the improvements already made over recent years with early adoption of a single remuneration figure and other relevant disclosures.
Whilst it was open to the Committee to make the remuneration policy effective from the start of the next financial year 1 July 2015, we believe that it should apply at the earliest opportunity.
Subject to shareholder approval, it will be implemented from 18 September 2014.
Diageos remuneration philosophy and principles The philosophy and principles underpinning executive remuneration remain fundamentally unchanged.
Support business strategy delivery: Reward for Diageos Executive Directors and senior managers incentivises the delivery of Diageos business strategy and performance goals.
Reward for consistent performance: Focus is on performance delivery in a consistent and responsible way with long term value creation for our shareholders.
Alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders remains a key principle.
performance-related compensation: Reward components offer a balanced mix of short and long term incentives conditional upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Performance measures such as organic net sales, organic operating margin, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and eps growth are key drivers of growth for the business that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Competitive total remuneration: Reward levels framed in the context of total remuneration packages paid by relevant global comparators.
In competition with similar global companies, the ability to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to Diageos continued business success.
Simplicity and transparency: The Committee seeks to deliver simplicity and transparency.
Performance targets clearly align with the companys short and long term goals.
Focus and highlights of 2014 The Committee continued its focus on: Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and fostering continuous open dialogue: Reviewing and assessing the on-going appropriateness of the current remuneration policy, executive plan design and target stretch: Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain the highest quality global talent with a clear link between performance and reward.
Benchmarking of all key reward components for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members ahead of the 2014 annual salary review independently validated by Kepler Associates satisfied the Committee that the shape and levels of our remuneration practice are appropriately positioned against those of comparator companies of similar size and global scope.
Looking ahead to 2015, the Committee has approved a simpler but more commercially focused design for the Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
The plan will now largely be based on delivery of three key financial measures of net sales growth, profit and cash.
For this year, the free cash flow measure FCF will be replaced with an operating cash conversion measure which will better reward delivery of efficient conversion of profits into cash.
90% of the AIP will be based on financial performance.
The remaining 10% will continue to be based on individual business objectives IBOs to retain scope for the continued recognition of individual objectives and contribution.
