Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 63 directors remuneration report directors remuneration report annual statement by the Chairman of the remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2014 including the remuneration policy on which shareholders will be asked to vote separately for the first time at the 2014 AGM in September.
In 2014, the Committee has continued to engage actively with shareholders on our executive remuneration arrangements.
We have fully considered shareholder feedback and acted upon their views in drawing up our reward policy.
Shareholder concern on the complexity of Diageos long term incentive plans has been addressed in the new single plan we are proposing which simplifies our long term incentive arrangements and reinforces alignment with Diageos business strategy and shareholders interests.
The structure and content of our 2014 policy and annual remuneration report keeps our reporting clear and transparent, building on the improvements already made over recent years with early adoption of a single remuneration figure and other relevant disclosures.
Whilst it was open to the Committee to make the remuneration policy effective from the start of the next financial year 1 July 2015, we believe that it should apply at the earliest opportunity.
Subject to shareholder approval, it will be implemented from 18 September 2014.
Diageos remuneration philosophy and principles The philosophy and principles underpinning executive remuneration remain fundamentally unchanged.
Support business strategy delivery: Reward for Diageos Executive Directors and senior managers incentivises the delivery of Diageos business strategy and performance goals.
Reward for consistent performance: Focus is on performance delivery in a consistent and responsible way with long term value creation for our shareholders.
Alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders remains a key principle.
performance-related compensation: Reward components offer a balanced mix of short and long term incentives conditional upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Performance measures such as organic net sales, organic operating margin, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and eps growth are key drivers of growth for the business that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Competitive total remuneration: Reward levels framed in the context of total remuneration packages paid by relevant global comparators.
In competition with similar global companies, the ability to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to Diageos continued business success.
Simplicity and transparency: The Committee seeks to deliver simplicity and transparency.
Performance targets clearly align with the companys short and long term goals.
Focus and highlights of 2014 The Committee continued its focus on: Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and fostering continuous open dialogue: Reviewing and assessing the on-going appropriateness of the current remuneration policy, executive plan design and target stretch: Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain the highest quality global talent with a clear link between performance and reward.
Benchmarking of all key reward components for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members ahead of the 2014 annual salary review independently validated by Kepler Associates satisfied the Committee that the shape and levels of our remuneration practice are appropriately positioned against those of comparator companies of similar size and global scope.
Looking ahead to 2015, the Committee has approved a simpler but more commercially focused design for the Annual Incentive Plan AIP.
The plan will now largely be based on delivery of three key financial measures of net sales growth, profit and cash.
For this year, the free cash flow measure FCF will be replaced with an operating cash conversion measure which will better reward delivery of efficient conversion of profits into cash.
90% of the AIP will be based on financial performance.
The remaining 10% will continue to be based on individual business objectives IBOs to retain scope for the continued recognition of individual objectives and contribution.
64 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 directors remuneration report directors remuneration report continued The Committee also approved a single umbrella Diageo Long Term Incentive Plan DLTIP for 2014 to replace the Performance Share Plan PSP and Senior Executive Share Option Plan SESOP awards, subject to approval at the 2014 AGM.
This addresses past shareholder concerns regarding the complexity associated with the two different long term plans.
The new plan will continue to offer flexibility of award in either performance shares and or options with a maximum annual grant of 500% of salary in performance share equivalents with the same range of stretching performance conditions.
Executive Directors will be required to retain any share awards for two years after vesting.
The malus clause has been extended to provide additional clarity and strengthened provisions throughout the retention period.
Simplification is delivered through one set of plan rules with common features relating to eligibility, participation, definition and treatment of leavers.
The DLTIP proposal is set out in more detail in the remuneration policy and will be put for shareholder approval at the AGM.
Subject to approval, awards will be made to Executive Directors under the new plan on 25 September 2014.
I highly value the direct engagement and feedback from our shareholders and their representative bodies on Diageos remuneration policy and approach.
I was delighted to meet with major shareholders on the remuneration proposals in this report and, where appropriate, their comments have been reflected.
Business performance and reward outcomes for 2014 Diageos remuneration principles clearly link reward with performance outcomes and so the business performance achieved in this last year has resulted in a significantly lower level of total remuneration for the Executive Directors than in 2013.
As described in the business review, the company has delivered 0.4% organic top line growth reflecting growth in North America, stability in Western Europe and weakness in emerging market economies.
This overall level of performance resulted in an annual incentive plan award equating to less than 10% of the maximum opportunity for Ivan Menezes, Deirdre Mahlan and Paul S Walsh.
On TSR, the company has delivered a relatively strong three-year performance in comparison to its peer group for the period ended 30 June 2014, resulting in Diageo achieving 6th place out of 17 global consumer packaged goods companies.
When combined with the performance in organic net sales 3.9% and organic operating margin improvement 214 bps, 55% of the performance shares awarded in September 2011 will vest in September 2014.
For share options awarded in September 2011, three-year compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share was 8.5%.
Consequently, the options will vest at 71% of the initial award.
Over the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2014 the performance period, Diageos share price grew by 45.6%, from 1,282 pence to 1,866 pence, and the company paid a total dividend of 135.5 pence per share.
This is reflected in the relative spend on pay illustration in the remuneration report with the percentage increase from FY13 to FY14 in total dividend distribution to shareholders 9.2% ahead of the increase in total employee pay 8.2%.
In its consideration, the Committee welcomes independent and expert advice.
Following a formal tender process for on-going professional advisory services, Kepler Associates were appointed as independent advisers to the Committee on 7 December 2013 to replace Deloitte LLP.
As you read our remuneration policy and annual remuneration reports on the following pages, I hope it is clear how Committee decisions support the company as a high performing organisation, by rewarding long term performance which is at the heart of Diageos corporate strategy and vital to meeting investors goals.
Finally, in summary, we will be asking shareholders to support three resolutions on executive remuneration matters at the AGM on 18 September 2014: A binding vote to formally approve our Directors Remuneration Policy for the first time: An advisory vote on our Annual Report on Remuneration: and Shareholder approval for a new 2014 Diageo Long Term Incentive Plan DLTIP.
We look forward to welcoming you and receiving your support at the AGM.
lord Davies of abersoch Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
