Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 65 directors remuneration report Variable with performance: A significant proportion of total directors remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business and individual performance so that remuneration will increase or remuneration decrease in line with performance.
policy Share ownership: Full participation in incentives is conditional upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors, to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, which Cost effectiveness: Fixed elements of remuneration are determined shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 Annual General by reference to the median of the market, individual experience Meeting AGM.
and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to maximise Remuneration policy framework efficiency.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business Future policy table strategy as follows: Set out below, is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors Focused on consistent growth drivers: As a public limited company, which is to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from the date Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long term value of the AGM, 18 September 2014. for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key consistent and responsible growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
base salary beneFIts Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
talent with the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and Operation performance goals.
The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence Operation of the Executive Director and may include a company car or car Normally reviewed annually or following a change in allowance, the provision of a car and contracted car service or responsibilities with changes usually taking effect from equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death 1 October.
& disability insurance, medical cover for the Executive Director and family and financial counselling.
The Remuneration Committee considers the following parameters when reviewing base salary levels: The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer additional Pay increases for other employees across the group.
allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, if considered Economic conditions and governance trends.
These may include relocation The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities.
expenses, housing allowance and school fees where a Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of similar Director has to relocate from his her home location as size and international scope to Diageo, with roles typically part of their appointment.
benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 Opportunity by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration services sector, or against similar comparator groups in Committee considers: other locations dependent on the Executive Directors Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the role home market.
and individual circumstances: and Opportunity Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to and complexity in the relevant market.
other employees in relevant markets in which Diageo operates, typically the United Kingdom and the United States, unless there is a change in role or responsibility, or the need to align an Executive Directors salary to market level over time provided the increase is merited by the individuals contribution and performance.
