Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Chairmans Overview Chairmans overview The Remuneration Committee has again reviewed the reward I am pleased to introduce this new style report to you as structure and has decided that it should remain largely Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This is our first unchanged.
Therefore, should the merger not proceed, the report under the new Regulations and we have worked hard structure for 2014 15 will comprise the following elements: to produce a compliant Remuneration Report which includes the necessary details for you to clearly understand our Base pay remuneration strategy and how it supports the objectives of Executive directors and key senior management pay increases the business.
will be made based on the average pay increase for the whole of the workforce in the country in which the individuals operate.
A key part of our role as the Remuneration Committee is to determine remuneration policy for directors and key senior Short Term Incentive Plan STIP managers.
We believe, and we trust you will agree, that we The annual bonus remains unchanged.
have structured the policy in such a way that provides a framework within which we have appropriate flexibility to In 2013 14 personal objectives were replaced for executive ensure that we can continue to attract the right people to directors and senior management with a return on capital the business to execute our strategy.
The Committee believes that this remains appropriate, as do the metrics shown later in the The Remuneration Report is split into two reports: the Remuneration Policy Report which underpin the Groups Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on strategic goals and drives shareholder value and operational Remuneration.
The first report that follows summarises our efficiency.
Accordingly, these measures will continue to be remuneration policy.
Following completion of the proposed used in 2014 15. merger, the directors of the combined entity will be bound by the policy issued by Carphone Warehouse Group plc and Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP approved by shareholders.
Clearly should the Merger not In 2014 15, we will continue to make awards under the LTIP complete in line with the expected timetable, the Company will at the levels awarded to the executive directors during the continue to operate within the parameters of this report once 2013 14 financial year.
Awards will be granted under either approved by shareholders including the incentive awards, the Performance Share Plan and or the Executive Share which will only be issued should the Merger not proceed.
Awards at executive director level will be subject The second report is the Annual Report on Remuneration to challenging performance targets which will deliver significant which outlines what remuneration arrangements have operated value to shareholders if met.
Succession planning and during the financial year under review.
performance considerations will be taken into account when deciding the level of awards throughout the organisation.
How our remuneration arrangements support our strategy Save as You Earn SAYE or Sharesave This has been a busy year for Dixons as we concentrated on We do not intend to offer a Sharesave after the preliminary achieving our strategy of being leaders in the markets in which announcement this year given the expected merger timetable.
This involved exiting our operations in Turkey, Should the Merger not proceed, we will look to invite our UK France and Italy.
and Ireland colleagues to join the scheme later in the year.
We continue to believe that this scheme is an important part We have structured the targets of our annual bonus STIP to of the benefit structure of the Group and enables colleagues to support this reorganisation and the Groups profitability, cash build up a shareholding and share in the Companys success.
generation and return on capital.
The combination of these, and the longer term three year metrics in the PSP plan, supports I very much hope that you will support the Remuneration Policy our strategic priorities to deliver long term profitability and return Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In turn, these metrics provide a platform from believe that these proposals are right for the Company, that they which management can be incentivised to achieve all-round will motivate and incentivise our senior team and therefore play Group strategy, aligning these interests with shareholders.
To an integral part in the creation of shareholder value and the mitigate any risk, we review the metrics each year and set the achievement of Company strategy.
target ranges in line with the strategic plan.
Further details of the metrics and why they were chosen can be found within the Remuneration Policy Report.
2013 14 performance Tim How Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The stretching targets that were set for the STIP at the start of the year have been achieved in full: therefore I am pleased to 25 June 2014 report that our directors will this year receive 100% of their bonus opportunity.
I am pleased to announce that the PSP awards issued in 2011 will vest on 3 August this year.
Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe will both receive 100% of the award granted to them and Humphrey Singer will receive 81.25% following the application of performance conditions.
Further details on the payments received from the STIP and LTIP in light of these achievements are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Dixons Retail plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Introduction I Remuneration Policy Report: Unaudited The purpose of these reports is to inform shareholders of Information the Companys policies on directors remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2014 and the remuneration policy for Remuneration Committee objectives subsequent years.
This report is divided into two sections: The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility for determining policy in relation to the remuneration I The Remuneration Policy Report: and packages for directors and senior management.
This delegation includes the terms and conditions of employment of each of the II The Annual Report on Remuneration.
executive directors and other senior management in addition to the operation of the Groups share-based employee incentive The Company may call an AGM prior to the completion of the schemes.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined proposed merger.
Should the AGM be called, shareholders will terms of reference which are available on the Companys be asked to approve both the Remuneration Policy Report and corporate website.
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy Report will be subject to a binding vote whilst the Annual Report The objectives of the Companys remuneration policy are to: on Remuneration is subject to an advisory vote.
align with and support the Groups business strategy: The role of the Committee is to determine on behalf of the Board a remuneration policy for executive directors and senior facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre and management in order to attract and retain executives who have focused team which will work effectively to achieve the the ability and experience, and are adequately incentivised, to Groups longer term strategic objectives and enhance deliver the Companys strategic objectives.
The Committee has shareholder value: adopted the principles of good governance relating to directors ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the remuneration as enshrined within section D of the UK Corporate directors and senior management to succeed and Governance Code the Code and has complied with those appropriately rewards them for their contribution to the principles during the year under review.
attainment of the Groups short and long term results: These reports have been prepared by the Remuneration maintain, via an appropriate level of base salary and Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the incentive structure, a competitive package of pay and Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Mediumbenefits which provides the motivation for future Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports achievement whilst discouraging inappropriate risk taking: Regulations 2008 as amended, and the Listing Rules of the align the directors interests with those of shareholders Financial Conduct Authority.
The Remuneration Policy Report by offering participation in reward schemes which provide not subject to audit details the role of the Committee, the opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company: and principles of remuneration and other matters.
The Annual Report on Remuneration elements of which are audited avoid reward for failure.
details directors and former directors emoluments, share In developing its policy, the Committee has regard to: awards, share options and pension arrangements.
the performance, roles and responsibilities of each executive director or member of senior management: arrangements which apply below senior management level, including average base salary increases: information and surveys from internal and independent sources: and the economic environment and financial performance of the Group.
Guidelines of Responsible Investment Disclosure In line with the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure and targets shown below for executive directors do not raise any environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour.
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration package will encourage inappropriate risk taking by any member of senior management.
As part of the overall system of governance and the evaluation of the performance of the business, the Board evaluates the Groups corporate responsibility performance.
Further information is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Dixons Retail plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Remuneration components Set out below are the remuneration policy components proposed for directors should the Merger not complete to the expected timetable.
This policy will become binding following approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM until the 2017 AGM.
Any changes to the policy in the interim will be put to shareholders for approval.
Remuneration component Purpose and link to strategy Operation of policy Performance targets Maximum Base Normally reviewed annually, Based on the Ordinarily, salary increases To attract and retain salary effective August.
individuals for executive directors and executive directors with experience, senior management will be in the appropriate The Committee takes into performance and line with the average increase experience and consideration the potential multiplier added value to the awarded to other employees knowledge to deliver effect of base salary increases on business.
This in the country in which the the strategic objectives the package as a whole, as bonuses assessment takes individual works.
and discretionary share plans are into account external generally worked out based on a However, increases greater information and percentage of salary.
than those granted to the advice provided to wider workforce in the Committee by percentage of salary terms external remuneration may be awarded in certain advisors, New Bridge circumstances, such as Street.
where there is a change of responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role.
Further information on how salaries are set on recruitment or promotion can be found later in the policy report.
Further details of any changes made to salary levels can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Provide competitive Defined contribution plan offered to n a Companys contribution is and life retirement benefits all employees above a certain grade.
20% of base salary per insurance and the opportunity for Directors and a small number of director up to a notional executives to contribute selected members of senior earnings cap, which can be to their own retirement management are offered a higher taken as a cash allowance in plan.
contribution rate than other lieu of pension.
A 20% of base salary A defined benefit pension plan supplement over and above continues in operation for longer the notional earnings cap is serving employees which is now provided for directors and closed to new participants and certain members of senior future accrual.
Life cover of four times salary.
Other Specific level of benefits for directors Provision of company car or Provide a competitive n a taxable is predetermined and therefore set allowance in lieu up to a package consistent with benefits upon appointment to the Board.
The maximum of 12,000. other companies which Company offers executive directors a enables the attraction Value of other benefits is range of benefits including some or and retention based on the cost to the all of: of executives.
Company and is not predetermined.
Provision of relocation Car or car allowance: or other related Private medical insurance: assistance may be including family cover and annual provided to support medicals: the appointment of Life cover: a director.
Income protection: and Access to independent financial and legal advice when necessary.
Relocation or other related assistance could include, but is not limited to, removal and other relocation costs, tax support and short term rental costs.
Such benefits are sourced on the open market and are kept under regular review.
Dixons Retail plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Remuneration component Purpose and link to strategy Operation of policy Performance targets Maximum Short Term To appropriately Based on performance over the The bonus targets are Up to a maximum of Incentive incentivise directors to financial year.
reviewed annually and 100% of base salary.
Plan STIP : achieve short term are aligned to the Bonus payouts are determined after The above is achieved if annual objectives and Group strategy and Annual the year end based on the all metrics are achieved targets that support the Key Performance Bonus Plan achievement against predetermined at stretch.
Indicators KPIs annual targets with payments being which are set out on High potential rewards made in August each year.
page 13. for reaching stretching Targets are set using benchmarks The Committee targets.
that reflect both internal business determines the objectives and external expectations metrics from a range which the Committee also feel are of measures, sufficiently challenging but will not including, but not encourage irresponsible behaviour.
Paid in cash, but Operating Profit, Free Cash Flow, Return On can be settled in shares or a mixture of cash or shares which could be Capital Employed ROCE and EPS.
deferred, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Further details are provided in the Adjustment provisions apply for Annual Report on material adverse misstatement, error Remuneration and in determining the extent to which current metrics and the target has been satisfied and targets shown on misconduct.
The Committee has the discretion to change the metrics and or weighting from year to year to achieve better alignment with the Companys annual strategic objectives.
A gateway for each element is set, below which no bonus is paid.
Once the gateway is achieved, a sliding scale determines payment between minimum and maximum bonus payable.
For threshold level of performance 25% of bonus is payable.
Dixons Retail plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Remuneration component Purpose and link to strategy Operation of policy Performance targets Maximum Long Term Incentivise the Annual grants which vest after a Performance metrics The normal maximum award Incentive achievement of minimum of three years, subject to targets are reviewed is 100% of salary or 200% of Plans LTIP : long term growth and performance conditions and prior to each grant and salary in exceptional profitability objectives.
Share Plan Align interests with The Committee has the ability to Further information on long The Committee PSP those of shareholders.
reduce future vesting under the term incentive arrangements determines the metrics recovery provisions of the rules and on recruitment or promotion from a range of the reasons for invoking such can be found later in the measures, including provisions are clearly defined.
but not limited to, TSR, On vesting, an amount of cash or EPS growth and shares may be payable to ROCE.
participants based on the number of Further details and shares vesting and the dividends current metrics are paid to shareholders during the provided in the Annual performance period.
Report on The PSP may be utilised on Remuneration.
recruitment, if appropriate, to allow The Committee for buy-out or forfeited reserves the right to compensation.
choose a comparator Further information on the operation Group for the TSR of the LTIP policy can be found in element which is in the the Annual Report on best interests of the Remuneration.
Awards with performance conditions are also subject to an underpin, such that there has been satisfactory financial performance.
Performance is measured over a minimum of three years.
Vesting for each component varies between 25% for threshold performance rising to 100% maximum with straight line vesting between the two.
Long Term Incentivise the Grants of the ESOP may be made Performance measures The maximum award is Incentive achievement of long in addition to the PSP or in will be determined at 200% of salary.
However, in Plans LTIP : term growth and substitution of at the discretion of grant, as appropriate, exceptional circumstances profitability objectives.
the Committee and awards under and would come from an award of 300% of salary Executive this scheme will be determined a range of measures, may be made.
Share Option Align interests with annually.
including but not Plan ESOP those of shareholders.
limited to, TSR, EPS The ESOP may also be utilised on Grant HMRC approved growth and ROCE.
recruitment, if appropriate, to allow options up to the for buy-out or forfeited approved limit.
The Committee has the ability to reduce future vesting under the recovery provisions of the rules and the reasons for invoking such provisions are clearly defined.
Further information on the operation of the LTIP policy can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Dixons Retail plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Remuneration component Purpose and link to strategy Operation of policy Performance targets Maximum Directors The Company has a Executive directors are usually n a 100% of base salary.
shareholding policy of encouraging required to retain 50% of the net of guidelines directors to build a tax outturn from the vesting of shareholding in the awards under the Companys share Company.
plans until a shareholding with a value equivalent to their base salary is achieved.
All employee The Company believes The Sharesave plan has standard n a This HMRC approved share in offering its terms under which all UK and scheme allows participants schemes employees a chance to Ireland employees who meet the to enter into a savings build up a shareholding eligibility criteria can participate.
contract and in return receive in the Company.
It a share option granted at up therefore operates a to 20% discount to the Sharesave plan in market price at the time of which executive invitation.
The maximum directors are entitled to monthly saving under all participate on the contracts are limited by same basis as other HMRC approved limits or employees.
such lower limit as the Company may set.
NonTo provide a Fees are set to align with the duties n a Aggregate annual limit of executive competitive fee for the undertaken, taking into account 1,000,000 imposed by the directors performance of NED market rates.
Additional fees are Articles of Association for NEDs and duties, sufficient to payable for acting as Chair of either directors fees not including Chairmans attract high calibre the Remuneration or Audit fees in relation to any fees individuals to the role.
Committee, or for acting as the executive office or Chairman, Senior Independent Director.
Committee Chair or Senior Independent Director fees.
Dixons Retail plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Illustration of remuneration policy How shareholder views are taken into account The core focus of our remuneration strategy for executive The Remuneration Committee has a policy to consult with its directors is designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of largest shareholders in advance of making any material change remuneration opportunity is performance related.
The chart regarding the remuneration policy of the Company.
Any below illustrates the level and mix of remuneration payable feedback received from either these consultations or from the under the current policy at minimum, target and maximum levels AGM are taken into account when determining the future policy.
The Committee also follows remuneration guidance from large 000 investor bodies generally as well as the principles of good 2,250 governance relating to directors remuneration as set out in Share awards the Main Principles, Supporting Principles and Code Provisions 2,000 Bonus 31% of the Code.
Fixed 1,750 No share price growth has been assumed 1,500 Also excludes Sharesave Remuneration policy for the wider workforce 31% 11% 1,250 Dixons Retail employs a large number of colleagues in a variety 32% 32% 32% of roles across a range of geographies.
Our reward framework 1,000 is structured around a set of common principles, but is altered 12% 28% 750 12% 100% 57% 38% 28% 29% as necessary to suit the needs of the business and for our 29% 500 100% 59% 40% different employee groups.
Reward packages therefore differ, 100% 59% 40% 250 taking account of a number of factors, including seniority, impact on the business, local practice, custom and legislation.
0 Min Target Max Min Target Max Min Target Max Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Katie Bickerstaffe In determining salary increases to apply across the wider workforce, the Company takes into consideration company The assumptions underlying the chart in respect of the performance and other market metrics as necessary.
percentage of maximum opportunity payable are set out below: The Remuneration Committee, when setting the policy for Minimum Target Maximum the executive directors, takes into consideration the pay and Bonus 0% 70% 100% employment conditions throughout the Company as a whole.
PSP 0% 25% 100% Typically, salary increases will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Company unless the Committee considers Sebastian Humphrey Katie that specific circumstances require a different level of salary James Singer Bickerstaffe increase for the executive directors.
Salary 612,000 367,200 408,000 Discretionary share plans are extended to both senior Benefits 13,000 13,000 11,000 management and other key members of the workforce, as Pension cash allowance the Company feels that it is important to incentivise and retain in lieu 122,400 73,440 81,600 these employees in order for the Company to continue to grow.
The Committee operates the cash bonus, discretionary and all The Groups UK and Irish employees who meet the eligibility employee share schemes according to their respective rules criteria are able to participate in the STIP arrangements.
and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules Employees in the UK and Ireland who meet the eligibility where relevant.
criteria are also able to participate in the Sharesave plan, which is encouraged as this enhances the link between Committee discretions shareholder value and employee reward.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, over a number of areas relating to the operation and Although the Company has not carried out a formal employee administration of the STIP and share plans.
These include, but consultation regarding executive remuneration, it does comply are not limited to, the following: with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly and conducts employee surveys entitlement to participate in the plan: in many business areas.
when awards or payments are to be made: How performance measures were chosen size of an award and or a payment: The performance metrics used in both the STIP and LTIPs PSP and ESOP have been chosen to align the directors discretion as to the measurement of performance metrics in interests with those of the Companys short and long term the event of a change in control: goals.
They are also designed to drive shareholder value.
the determination of a good leaver for incentive plan The Committee reviews and determines the metrics and or purposes and the appropriate treatment, based on the rules weighting to be used from year-to-year to achieve alignment of each plan: with the strategic goals based on the Groups KPIs which are set out earlier in this Annual Report and Accounts.
pro-rating considerations in the event of either a good leaver or a change of control: We have structured the targets of our 2014 15 STIP to support any adjustments to awards or performance conditions for the Groups reorganisation and its profitability, cash generation significant events or exceptional circumstances e. g. rights and return on capital.
The reasons why these were chosen are issues, corporate restructuring, etc.
set out below: Dixons Retail plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report profitability measure underlying operating profit to create a as far as possible, the nature and conditionality attached to the return for shareholders and support the Groups investment remuneration relinquished.
in its activities: The above policy applies to both internal promotions or cash generation Free Cash Flow to support the efficient an external hire.
In the case of an internal promotion, any management of cash to optimise resources available and for remuneration commitments entered into prior to the promotion investment in future growth, and to support shareholder shall continue to apply, with any variable pay elements paying value creation: and out according to the original terms on grant.
The Committee return on capital ROCE which is an indicator of investment may, however, adjust awards to take into account the timing efficiency.
All of these are seen as key metrics in supporting increasing For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive returns to our shareholders.
director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
Our LTIP longer term measures are based on shareholder value metrics including: Loss of office Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor underlying diluted earnings per share EPS, which is seen a change of control clause.
It is the Companys policy to ensure as an indicator of the financial health of the Group and its that any payments made to a director in the event of the early ability to deliver returns to shareholders: and termination of a service agreement reflect the circumstances total shareholder return TSR, which provides a measure giving rise to termination and, where considered appropriate, of the relative performance of the Company against a the obligations of the outgoing director to mitigate their loss.
Accordingly, consideration is given to making compensation payments in instalments and payments being conditional on The combination of the STIP plan metrics annual and the the leavers employment and earnings status.
However, there longer term minimum of three year shareholder metrics in the may be circumstances where a director may have a legal right LTIP plans, provide a spring board from which management to either statutory or the Companys normal severance can be incentivised to achieve all-round Group strategy.
arrangements, such as in a redundancy situation.
It is the Companys policy to honour any such rights.
Remuneration policy on recruitment or promotion When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed STIP executive director, the Remuneration Committee will take into Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including but consideration all relevant factors, including but not limited to, not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no bonus existing remuneration arrangements and pay relative to other would usually be payable unless the executive director remains senior management, the market, the candidates skills, employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
Any knowledge and experience, the nature of the role they are bonuses paid to a good leaver would usually be based on being recruited to fulfil and the deliverables expected of the attainment of performance targets as well as an assessment new appointee.
of their performance over the performance period and pro rated for the proportion of the bonus year worked.
The Committee may feel it necessary to offer a below market initial salary with a view to making above market and workforce The Remuneration Committee has discretion to deem a annual increases over a number of years to reach the desired participant in the plan who is leaving the Company to be a good salary positioning, subject to individual and company leaver.
Should this discretion be exercised, awards may be performance.
All of the principles and components set out payable on the basis outlined above.
in the policy table above are considered.
LTIP Benefits, including pension, will be offered in line with the The PSP and ESOP rules provide that other than in certain current policy although transitional provisions may apply.
good leaver circumstances, awards lapse on cessation of The Committee may also provide relocation employment.
The Committee has discretion to partly or expenses arrangements, tax equalisation arrangements and completely disapply pro rating and the performance conditions legal fees and other costs.
in certain circumstances, or to permit awards to vest on cessation of employment.
The Committee acknowledges that For variable pay elements granted on recruitment i. e. STIP, directors leave for a variety of reasons that do not necessarily PSP, ESOP the scheme maximum limits as described in the fall within the prescribed categories in the scheme rules.
policy table above will apply.
The Company may also in these It therefore retains discretion to deem an individual to be a circumstances apply different performance measures if it feels good leaver in accordance with the plan rules and in making these appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of that decision will take into account the performance of the the Company, whilst incentivising the new executive director.
individual in office and their reason for leaving.
For any subsequent awards normal levels would apply as approved by shareholders in the policy.
Where an individual is considered a good leaver, the Committees policy is ordinarily for the award to vest on the In certain circumstances where remuneration is relinquished normal vesting date or cessation of employment in the event when leaving a former employer, the Committee may offer of death following the application of performance targets for additional cash and or share-based elements when it the original performance period or as the Committee considers considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and reasonable in the case of death and a pro rata reduction its shareholders.
This includes the use of awards made under to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that section 9.4.
Such amounts would reflect, has elapsed.
Dixons Retail plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Date of Expiry of Length of Service agreements appointment current term service It is the Companys policy that executive directors should John Allan 23 Jun 2009 2 Sep 2015 4yr 11m have contracts of employment providing for a maximum of one years notice from the Company and six months notice Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2010 1 Feb 2016 4yr 4m from the executive director.
Service agreements for all executive Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 Mar 2013 28 Feb 2016 1yr 3m directors and letters of appointment for all non-executive directors Tim How 8 Sep 2009 7 Sep 2015 4yr 9m are available for inspection as described in any Notice of Annual Jock Lennox 10 Jan 2012 9 Jan 2015 2yr 5m General Meeting.
Dharmash Mistry 27 Sep 2010 26 Sep 2016 3yr 8m Each of the executive directors service agreements provides Availability for inspection for the remuneration components set out in the table above as The service agreements for the executive directors and the well as: letters of appointment for the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the director and, should an AGM be called, 15 minutes before and during in performance of their duties: the meeting.
in the case of termination by the Company with immediate effect, the Company may pay the executive a payment in Legacy arrangements lieu of notice PILON.
This will exclude bonus payments, For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Remuneration payment of benefits to which the executive would be entitled Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any during the period for which the PILON is made, or any commitments previously entered into with current or former payment in respect of any holiday entitlement that would directors which have been disclosed previously to shareholders.
have accrued during the period: 25 days paid holiday each year or payment in lieu of any accrued or untaken holiday on termination of employment calculated with reference to a formula specified in the service agreement: and sick pay.
In situations where an executive director is dismissed, the Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith, such as: In discharge of an existing legal obligation: or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of the directors office and employment.
External directorships The Company recognises that permitting executive directors to accept non-executive directorships in external companies can broaden the executives experience and knowledge which is of benefit to their role with the Company.
Directors are therefore allowed to retain any fees received for such additional roles.
Under the policy approved by the Board, however, each executive director may only take on one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 350 company.
Further details on current external directorships and fees relating to them can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year terms, although appointments may vary depending on length of service and succession planning considerations.
Appointments are reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee based on effectiveness reviews and recommendations made to the Board accordingly.
Each of the non-executive directors notice periods comprises one month by either the Company or the individual with the exception of the Chairman whose notice period is six months given by the Company or the individual.
Non-executive directors derive no other benefits from their office and are not eligible to participate in the Companys pension scheme.
It is Company policy not to grant share options or share awards to non-executive directors or to require part of their fees to be paid in the form of shares.
Dixons Retail plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration II Annual Report on Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and has confirmed to the Committee its compliance with this code.
Accordingly, the This part of the report has been prepared in accordance Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives is objective with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized and independent.
Fees paid to NBS were 40,000 2012 13 Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 22,000 which represent a full year of service.
NBS provided 2008 as amended, and contents contain those elements no other services to the Company.
Should the Merger not proceed to the expected External directorships timetable, the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to The policy relating to external directorships is outlined in the an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM should it be Remuneration Policy Report.
For the year ended 30 April 2014, called.
Audited information follows the heading Audited the following external directorships were undertaken and the information set out below, except where otherwise indicated.
fees retained by the executive directors who performed the role: Sebastian James was Chairman of INK Publishing Remuneration Committee Holdings Limited until 30 June 2013 and was paid a Main objective: To determine and agree the remuneration fee of 2,083 for the financial year to this date.
policy for executive directors and senior management and Katie Bickerstaffe is a non-executive director of Scottish to monitor and report on it.
and Southern Energy plc and is paid a fee of 57,000 per annum.
Chairman: Tim How Number of meetings: 5 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2014 15 Member Attendance Executive directors Tim How 5 of 5 i Base salary John Allan 5 of 5 The Committee reviewed the executive directors salaries in 1 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 5 June 2013 and awarded increases of 2% with effect from Andrea Gisle Joosen 5 of 5 18 August 2013, in line with the equivalent general increase made to all UK employees.
Jock Lennox 5 of 5 Dharmash Mistry 5 of 5 The salaries of the executive directors at the beginning of the financial year were as follows: 1 Utho Creusen attended all scheduled committee meetings but was unable to attend an ad hoc meeting due to a previous commitment At 1 May 2014 At 1 May 2013 Increase Name % Sebastian James 612,000 600,000 2% Remuneration Committee membership and attendance Humphrey Singer 367,200 360,000 2% Membership of the Committee currently comprises the five Katie Bickerstaffe 408,000 400,000 2% independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Their names and attendance at meetings are set out in the table above and their biographies and qualifications are It is expected that new packages will be agreed with the set out on pages 29 and 30.
Members served throughout the executives in the newly merged company.
However, should the year under review.
In line with the Code, the Chairman is a Merger not complete to the expected timetable, the Committee member of the Committee but is not its Chair.
The Committees will review the salaries of the executive directors later in the year.
terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website.
ii STIP The Committee feels that the specific targets relating to the Outside of scheduled meetings, there is a formal process 2014 15 bonus scheme are currently commercially sensitive, agreed by the Committee and the Board for urgent issues to and as such are not disclosed.
However, the Committee will be dealt with at either ad hoc meetings or by discussion with provide full retrospective disclosure of the targets and the the Chair and other members of the Committee.
achievement against them in next years Remuneration Report.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director The performance metrics and their weightings for 2014 15 are attended meetings of the Committee by invitation and in shown in the table below.
Meetings are also attended by Measure Strategic objective Weighting the Company Secretary and General Counsel who acts Group underlying To increase operating 55% as Committee Secretary, Deputy Company Secretary, Group operating profit profit HR Director and the Head of Group Reward.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Optimises resources to 25% invest in future growth No executive director participates in discussions about their ROCE Optimises the efficiency 20% own remuneration.
and profitability of investments Advice The Committee keeps itself fully informed with best practice in the field of executive remuneration and seeks advice from internal and external advisors as appropriate.
The Committee has retained the services of New Bridge Street NBS, a subsidiary of Aon Hewitt Limited, as their external advisor throughout the year.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Dixons Retail plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration iii LTIP The other points plotted are values at intervening financial year The Carphone Warehouse policy will apply in relation to awards ends.
The FTSE 250 has been selected as the Company is a to directors of the merged entity should this proceed, it is constituent of this index and the vesting of PSP awards except therefore not the current intention to make awards under the 2012 13 is partly dependent on the Companys TSR Dixons plans.
However, should the transaction not proceed to performance compared to the constituents of this index.
the expected timetable, or should the Company remain a standalone entity, the Remuneration Committee will consider Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters granting annual awards to executive directors in 2014 15 on a similar basis to 2013 14.
To this end, the Committee would Value make LTIP awards to 100% salary under the PSP or the 260 equivalent value under the ESOP Scheme.
Dixons Retail plc 240 FTSE 250 Index excl.
Investment Trusts 220 Given that the Company is not currently anticipating to 200 make these awards performance conditions have not yet 180 been agreed.
In the event that these awards are granted, the 160 performance conditions will therefore be disclosed to the stock 140 exchange as part of the announcement of the award of shares 120 to the executive directors.
100 80 60 Non-executive directors fees and Chairmans fees 40 The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined 20 by the Board upon the recommendation of the Group Chief 0 Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman is not 2 May 2009 1 May 2010 30 Apr 2011 28 Apr 2012 30 Apr 2013 30 Apr 2014 involved in the setting of his own salary which is dealt with by Implementation of the remuneration policy during 2013 14 the Remuneration Committee annually without his participation.
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the The current fees for the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive over the same five year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the bonus and share awards which Chairman are summarised in the table below: vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus At 1 May 2014 At 1 May 2013 Increase and share award percentages show the payout for each year as % a percentage of the maximum.
Chairman 269,500 264,282 2% Basic non-executive fee 52,530 51,500 2% 30 Apr 30 Apr 28 Apr 30 Apr 1 May 3 3 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 000 000 000 000 000 Audit Committee Chairman 12,500 10,000 25% 1 Sebastian James Remuneration Committee Total remuneration 1,351 1,320 218 n a n a Chairman 12,500 12,500 Annual bonus 100% 95% 69% n a n a LTIP vesting n a n a All directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Code should an AGM be called prior to the John Browett proposed merger.
Total remuneration 753 1,303 1,570 Annual bonus 18% 100% Performance graph 2 LTIP vesting 58% The graph below shows the Companys performance measured by TSR on a holding of 100 in the Companys shares over the 1 Amounts shown for Sebastian James represent amounts received in respect five years since 2 May 2009 compared to the same amount of services after he became a director.
invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts 2 LTIP vesting represents full vesting of 1,068,870 shares awarded on recruitment in compensation of forfeited bonus and lapsing of LTIP awards FTSE 250.
761,236 shares subject to TSR performance conditions being met.
3 Remuneration is shown before salary sacrifice into Reward Sacrifice options.
Dixons Retail plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Audited information Directors remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments and LTIP payments of individual directors: 2013 14 Basic salary Pension Cash Taxable Total LTIP Total 2 3 and fees contributions bonus benefits emoluments payments remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Sebastian James 608 122 608 13 1,351 1,351 Humphrey Singer 365 73 310 13 761 732 1,493 Katie Bickerstaffe 406 81 345 11 843 843 1,379 276 1,263 37 2,955 732 3,687 Non-executive John Allan 268 268 268 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 52 52 52 Tim How 70 70 70 Andrea Gisle Joosen 52 52 52 Jock Lennox 64 64 64 Dharmash Mistry 52 52 52 558 558 558 1,937 276 1,263 37 3,513 732 4,245 2012 13 Basic salary Pension Cash Taxable Total LTIP Total 2 and fees contributions bonus benefits emoluments payments remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Sebastian James 600 120 572 28 1,320 1,320 Humphrey Singer 360 72 292 13 737 737 Katie Bickerstaffe 400 84 324 11 819 819 1,360 276 1,188 52 2,876 2,876 Non-executive Current directors John Allan 263 263 263 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 51 51 51 Tim How 68 68 68 1 Andrea Gisle Joosen 8 8 8 Jock Lennox 61 61 61 Dharmash Mistry 51 51 51 Former directors 1 Rita Clifton 18 18 18 1 Andrew Lynch 2 2 2 522 522 522 1,882 276 1,188 52 3,398 3,398 1 Fees relate to periods in office as directors.
2012 13: Andrea Gisle Joosen from 1 March 2013 to 30 April 2013, Rita Clifton from 29 April 2012 to 6 September 2012 and Andrew Lynch from 29 April 2012 to 9 May 2012.
2 Pension contributions comprise the Companys contribution together with the salary supplement which is based on the difference between basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company.
This additional amount was 20% for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe.
3 LTIP payments comprise those vesting in respect of 2013 14 with performance conditions which were achieved, but excludes LTIPs which were not subject to performance conditions.
Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe both received vested PSP awards which were not subject to performance conditions arising from grants prior to their appointments as directors and which amounted to 746,976 and 605,656, respectively.
Amounts disclosed have been calculated using an average share price over the three months to 30 April 2014 of 48.03p.
Dixons Retail plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Status of previous STIPs and LTIPs STIP in respect of 2013 14 The performance against each performance target was as follows: % of % of Measure Strategic objective Weighting Summary of targets Result maximum salary paid in cash 1 2 Group underlying To increase operating profit 55% Threshold 140.0 million 202.8 million 100% 55% 46.75% operating profit Target 155.1 million Stretch 170.0 million 1 2 Free Cash Flow Optimises resources to 25% Threshold 85.0 million 200.5 million 100% 25% 21.25% invest in future growth Target 107.3 million Stretch 125.0 million 1 2 ROCE Optimises the efficiency and 20% Threshold 12.4% 16.3% 100% 20% 17.00% profitability of investments Target 13.4% Stretch 14.4% 1 2 Total 100% 100% 100% 85.00% 1 Percentage amounts relate to Sebastian James.
2 Percentage amounts relate to Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe.
Amounts to be paid to the executive directors in respect of 2013 14 are set out in the directors remuneration table above.
LTIP The status of the provisional awards and options under the outstanding share plans which are subject to performance conditions are reviewed regularly.
At the end of the performance period for both the PSP and the ESOP, the awards will vest subject to the Committee determining that the performance conditions have been met.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
All share options lapse on the earlier of ten years from the date of grant or, as with the PSP awards, where either the participant leaves the Company or on the date on which the Remuneration Committee determines that the performance conditions have not been met.
At the last review in June 2014, the status of the awards and options as at 30 April 2014 was as follows: Period in which Period in which provisional performance condition 1 award was made ends Scheme Outcome of test Status Award if status is maintained 2 3 2011 12 2013 14 PSP TSR above median Vested Full vesting 2 3 2011 12 2013 14 PSP EPS above target Vested Partial vesting 2012 13 2014 15 PSP Share price above target Full vesting 2012 13 2014 15 ESOP EPS progress towards target Partial vesting 2013 14 2015 16 PSP TSR above target Full vesting 2013 14 2015 16 PSP EPS progress towards target Partial vesting 1 Fuller details of performance criteria are shown in the footnotes to the PSP and directors share options tables set out below.
3 Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe both hold awards granted to them in 2011, prior to joining the Board, with no performance conditions attached.
Vesting of LTIP with performance period ending in 2013 14 The performance period for the 3 August 2011 award ended on 30 April 2014 and the results of the performance review were as follows: Performance measure Weighting Vesting scale Performance achieved % of this award vesting EPS 50% No vesting below EPS of 2p 3.0p 62.5% 1 25% vests at 2p 1 100% vests at 4p 3 TSR v FTSE 250 50% No vesting below median Notional ranking of 100% 2 25% vests at median 10 out of 194 2 100% vests at upper quartile 1 Straight line vesting between 2p and 4p.
2 Straight line vesting between median and upper quartile.
3 As at the end of the performance period, there were 194 companies, excluding Dixons Retail plc, left of the original FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts used for this award.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of shares vesting under the TSR element of the award should they feel that the financial performance of the Company does not warrant vesting.
The Committee has determined that no reduction in the number of TSR shares vesting is required.
Dixons Retail plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Dilution A combination of both newly issued shares and shares bought in the market are to be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share incentive arrangements.
The Committee is aware of and supports the ABI guidelines regarding dilution and monitors regularly the Companys compliance with these requirements.
In line with these guidelines, at the 2008 AGM the Committee included provisions in the scheme rules which limit the number of newly issued shares which can be granted to 10% of the issued share capital in ten years under all of the Companys share schemes and 5% for the executive directors and senior management under discretionary share schemes.
Shares relating to a portion of the potential obligations are held in the Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust the Trust for the benefit of participants of the share schemes and, if required, it is the Committees intention to make purchases of shares.
Any decision to do so will take into account the number of awards vesting and those options to be satisfied either from the Trust or by new issue, together with the likelihood of any performance targets being met and any potential lapsing of awards when employees leave the Group.
Change in dividends paid relative to change in spend on pay 2013 14 2012 13 million million Change % Dividends paid per ordinary share nil nil n a 1 Total staff costs continuing operations 717.1 713.8 0.5% Number Number Change % 1 2 Employee numbers continuing operations 32,400 30,672 5.6% 1 Extracted from note 6 to the Financial Statements.
2 The number of employees has been provided for context.
Change in Group Chief Executive pay compared to that for employees not audited The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2013 14 and 2012 13 for Sebastian James compared to the average UK based employee during the year.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus Sebastian James 2.0% 6.3% Average pay based on all UK based employees 2.7% 5.4% Dixons Retail plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Directors share-based rewards Directors PSP awards The directors restricted beneficial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest under the PSP.
2 Award made prior to joining the Board.
3 PSP awards made in 2010 11 were subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index comprising FTSE 101-350 companies, excluding investment trusts, at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting would occur for upper quartile performance with 25% vesting for median performance with straight line vesting between the two.
No award vests for below median performance.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it has not been met.
Accordingly, these awards lapsed during the period under review.
4 PSP awards made in 2011 12 to Humphrey Singer are subject to both TSR performance as described in note 3 above, as well as EPS performance whereby 25% of the award vests for an EPS of 2p and full vesting occurs at an EPS of 4p with straight line vesting between the two results.
Since 30 April 2014 the Remuneration Committee have reviewed the performance criteria and have determined that 100% of shares subject to the TSR condition will vest, and 62.5% subject to the EPS performance condition EPS of 3.0p will vest.
5 Awards made prior to joining the Board with no performance conditions other than continued service during the three year vesting period.
6 If more than 75% of the award vests then there will be a partial vesting of 75% in June 2015.
Anything over 75% will vest in June 2016 subject to continued employment.
7 PSP awards made in 2012 13 are subject to a performance condition, whereby 25% vests for a share price of 25p, 100% vests for a share price of 35p with straight line vesting between the two results.
8 PSP awards made in 2013 14 are subject to the performance conditions outlined below.
On 24 July 2013 performance shares were awarded to the executive directors as detailed below: Number Face value Award Type of shares % of salary Sebastian James PSP Conditional share awards 1,470,948 100% Humphrey Singer PSP Conditional share awards 882,569 100% Katie Bickerstaffe PSP Conditional share awards 980,632 100% Determined by reference to the market price which is the average share price over the three months prior to 24 July 2013.
Performance conditions and vesting criteria for the above PSP, for which the performance period is measured from 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2016, are as follows: 50% of the award based on TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
25% vests at threshold performance, increasing to 100% vesting at upper quartile or above.
50% of the award based on EPS performance for the 2015 16 financial year.
25% vests at threshold of 3 pence increasing to 100% vesting for 4 pence.
2 Awards granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of the savings contracts which have terms of three years.
3 Discretionary options granted on 3 August 2010 were subject to an EPS performance condition which failed to meet the performance condition and have therefore lapsed.
4 Options granted on 29 June 2012 are subject to an EPS performance condition whereby 25% of the options vest for EPS in 2014 15 of 2.5p.
100% of the options vest for EPS in 2014 15 of 3.5p.
Options will vest on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% of the award.
5 The Sharesave awards exercised by Katie Bickerstaffe and Humphrey Singer had a market price of 46.52p and 46.69p, respectively, on the date of exercise.
6 In 2009, certain executive directors and senior management were offered the choice to sacrifice part of their salary for a share award.
For every 1 of salary sacrificed a 3 face value of share options was received.
These awards have now vested and are shown in the table above for the executive directors.
The share price on 30 April 2014 was 44.98p and closing prices ranged between 35.31p and 53.30p during the year.
Share ownership guidelines The Company has a policy of encouraging executive directors to build shareholdings in the Company.
Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the net of tax outturn from the vesting of future awards under the Companys share plans until a shareholding with a minimum value equivalent to their base salary is achieved.
The table which follows sets out share interests and entitlements including those under share ownership guidelines.
Dixons Retail plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Total Total beneficial beneficial interests share under share interests Exercised ownership as a % of during 1 2 6 Beneficially owned Restricted interests in share plans as at 30 April 2014 guidelines salary 2013 14 Reward 3 4 5 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 PSP ESOS sacrifice Sharesave Total 30 April 2014 Sharesave Executive directors Sebastian James 109,072 109,072 9,883,281 2,571,428 3,882 109,072 8% Humphrey Singer 92,495 80,395 6,873,027 1,929,272 101,110 22,478 247,528 31% 12,100 Katie Bickerstaffe 208,657 196,557 6,813,027 1,714,285 299,762 22,478 303,981 35% 12,100 Non-executive directors John Allan 1,180,818 1,180,818 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 97,071 97,071 Tim How 80,000 80,000 Andrea Gisle Joosen 39,200 Jock Lennox 75,000 75,000 Dharmash Mistry 267,382 267,382 1 Shows the directors total connected shareholdings plus any share interests that have vested but are not yet exercised share ownership guidelines stipulate that only 60% of the reward after deduction of tax is counted in determining the minimum shareholding and accordingly, only 60% of the post tax number of vested but unexercised options has been used in the calculation.
2 Based on basic salary as at 1 May 2014 and an average share price over the month to 30 April 2014 of 46.49p.
3 Subject to performance conditions except for 1,555,191 shares awarded to Sebastian James and 1,260,967 for Katie Bickerstaffe which are not subject to performance conditions.
ESOS awards in respect of Humphrey Singer include 386,415 shares which have vested but are unexercised.
6 Further details in the share option table above.
There were no changes in the directors restricted or unrestricted share interests between 30 April 2014 and the date of this report.
In addition to the share interests disclosed above, the following directors held interests in the Groups 8.75% 2015 Guaranteed Notes the 2015 Notes and the 8.75% 2017 Guaranteed Notes the 2017 Notes : John Allan holds 556,000 of the 2015 Notes and 250,000 of the 2017 Notes: and Tim How and his connected interests hold 100,000 of the 2017 Notes.
Further details of the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes are set out in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
Directors pensions All of the current executive directors are members of the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme pensionbuilder which provides for a pension at normal retirement age of 65.
Each executive director contributes 5% of salary up to the scheme specific earnings cap via Pay Exchange, a salary sacrifice arrangement.
In addition, the Companys contribution for each executive director is 20% up to the earnings cap which is currently 146,400.
In addition, the Company provides each executive director with a salary supplement above the earnings cap.
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe all receive a 20% salary supplement for the amount of their salary above the earnings cap.
No directors accrued benefits under a defined benefit pension scheme.
Humphrey Singer opted out of the pension scheme on 5 April 2014.
He now receives the equivalent of the Company contribution to the pension scheme adjusted for employer National Insurance contributions as an additional salary supplement.
Voting at the 2013 AGM not audited At the AGM on 5 September 2013, the annual advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report took place.
The voting outcome was: Resolution Votes for % Votes against % Withheld Remuneration Report 2,600,163,558 99.36 16,764,288 0.64 66,307,664 The Company consults with its shareholders as part of its ongoing investor relations programme.
In 2012, the Company announced its intentions of returning to a normal award structure in 2013, which was duly carried out.
Accordingly, no specific remuneration consultation took place in the current year.
Tim How Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 June 2014 Dixons Retail plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
