STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Companys future remuneration payments.
The policy described will be applicable, subject to subsequent approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM in March 2015 from the beginning of the Companys current financial year, being 1 November 2014.
STRATEGY OVERVIEW The Companys business strategy is to provide industrial customers with a full suite of products to meet their coding and marking and identification needs.
The objective is to enable Domino to continue to grow its market share in this industry and deliver a sustained increase in profitability, cash flow and shareholder value.
To achieve these objectives, it is vital that the Remuneration Policy devised andapplied by the Committee supports this strategy.
In order to execute this strategy, the Company needs high-quality Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, retain and motivate such individuals.
Salary and benefit packages for executive Directors are linked to both individual and business performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed in the interests of shareholders.
Whilst salaries are generally set by reference to the median of the market, the annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan are intended to give executive Directors an opportunity to earn totalannual remuneration at the upper quartile of the market in terms of payments made when merited by performance.
NEW POLICY The Notice of AGM provides details of the proposed new Domino Printing Sciences plc 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan and other changes tothe Policy and sets out the Committees rationale behind the revised Policy set out below.
In addition, the Annual Statement of the Chairman sets out which elements of the revised Policy are different from the current Policy.
It should be noted that other than the introduction of the new 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan and changes to the operation of the LTIP all other Policy elements remain unchanged.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Committee is comfortable that the proposed Policy is in line with the revised Code.
The following table sets out the key elements of the revised Code and how the Companys remuneration policy for executive Directors is in line with the Code: Code provision Company Remuneration Policy Executive Directors remuneration should be designed The Company has an LTIP with a three year performance period and under the to promote the long-term success of the Company.
new Policy provision for the Committee to add holding periods post vesting.
The new Policy incorporates bonus arrangements where part of the bonus is deferred in shares for three years with the facility for the Committee to add holding periods post vesting.
It is the Committees view that these arrangements provide a holistic approach to ensuring executive Directors are focused on the long-term success of the Company.
Schemes should include provisions that would enable The proposed new Domino Printing Sciences plc 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan the Company to recover sums paid or withhold the includes malus and clawback provisions.
In addition, the proposed new Policy payment of any sum, and specify the circumstances in includes similar provisions for the LTIP.
Full details of these provisions are set out which it would be appropriate to do so.
It is the Committees opinion that these changes meet both the letter and spirit of the Code.
For share-based remuneration, the Remuneration The new Policy contains the following relevant features: Committee should consider requiring Directors to hold a minimum number of shares and to hold shares for a Minimum shareholding requirements for executive Directors increased to further period after vesting or exercise, including for a 200 per cent of salary.
period after leaving the Company, subject to the need The provision for the Committee to add holding periods post vesting for the to finance any costs of acquisition and associated tax new Bonus Plan and the existing LTIP.
The Committee does not currently believe with the increased shareholding requirement and the introduction of bonus deferral in shares for the first time that additional holding periods are required.
However, the Committee will consider this position on an annual basis.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED DISCRETION The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are summarised below: 1.
POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Objective and link to Operation Maximum potential Performance the strategy value conditions and assessment Base salary Reflects level of Base salary is set annually Broadly pitched around N A responsibility and on 1 May.
the median level for achievement of individual comparable positions, Salary levels are without tracking it reviewed on an annual mechanistically.
basis by reference to the median for comparable When considering any positions in FTSE 250 increases to base salaries companies of a similar in the normal course as market capitalisation and opposed to a change in with similar revenues to role or responsibility, the Company.
Broadly, the Committee will take the Company seeks to into consideration: pitch base salary around the median level for such reference to the comparable positions, increases provided to without tracking it executives in the mechanistically.
The comparator group: Committee is aware of pay and employment the dangers of conditions of comparisons and the risk employees of upward ratcheting of throughout the remuneration without Group, including corresponding increases provided to improvements in the employee corporate and individual population: and performance.
64 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 1.
POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Objective and Operation Maximum potential Performance conditions and link to the value assessment strategy 2 1 Annual bonus The bonus aligns rds cash and rd deferred Maximum 150 per cent of Bonus performance conditions: 3 3 Domino Printing reward to key shares for three years.
plc 2015 Deferred Groupstrategic Group profit underlying pre-tax Bonus Plan objectives and The performance period is one At threshold levels of profit before discretionary bonus 1 drivesshort-term financial year.
of base salary can be The Company will set out in the earned, with a straightGroup cash net cash inflow from Taken together with section headed statement of line pro-rate allocation operating activities before taxation the Long-Term implementation of remuneration between threshold and as adjusted to eliminate the cash Incentive Plan, it is policy in the following financial maximum.
effect if any of any one-off items intended to provide year, the nature of the targets and included in the reconciliation an opportunity to their weighting for each year see between pre-tax profit and 1 earn an upper page 55. underlying pre-tax profit.
quartile level of total remuneration as Details of the performance Personal objectives compared to actual conditions, targets and their level remuneration of satisfaction for the year being The Committee may change the earned by the reported on will be set out in the balance of the conditions, or use comparator group.
Annual Remuneration different conditions for subsequent Committee Report.
years, as appropriate: provided that at least 50 per cent of the conditions The Committee retains are financial.
No material change will discretion in exceptional be made to the type of performance circumstances to change the conditions without prior shareholder performance measures and consultation.
targets and their respective weightings part way through a The Remuneration Committee is of performance year if there is a the opinion that given the significant and material event commercial sensitivity arising in which causes the Committee to relation to the detailed financial believe the original measures, targets used for the bonus, disclosing weightings and targets are no precise targets for the bonus plan in longer appropriate.
advance would not be in shareholder interests.
This avoids the risk of the Discretion may also be exercised Company inadvertently providing a in cases where the Committee profit forecast because profit targets believes that the bonus outcome are linked to budgets and giving is not a fair and accurate international competitors an unfair reflection of business advantage because they are not performance.
The Committee required to report to the same has discretion not to pay a bonus disclosure standard as a UK listed even if performance conditions company.
Actual targets, performance Malus and clawback provisions achieved and awards made will be are included in the rules of the published at the end of the Plan.
performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the Dividend equivalents may be basis for any pay-outs under the provided on deferred shares.
1 Group profit and Group cash together provide alignment with shareholders and balance the incentive to drive short-term performance with the delivery of the conditions necessary to achieve key strategic objectives.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 1.
POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Objective and Operation Maximum potential Performance conditions and link to the value assessment strategy 1 Long-Term The Long-Term Share awards.
Maximum 100 per cent Total Shareholder Return TSR Incentive Plan Incentive Plan of base salary and relative to comparator group with aligns executive Awards are made annually to minimum vesting is 25 vesting subject to satisfactory Director interests the executive Directors and per cent of salary upon financial performance over the with those of certain senior managers who achievement of the period.
shareholders and are in a position to influence threshold performance drives superior significantly the performance levels.
Cumulative earnings per share 2 long-term ofthe Group.
The awards granted under the The Committee may change the Taken together Long-Term Incentive Plan are balance of the conditions, or use withthe Annual subject to performance different conditions for subsequent Bonus, it is intended conditions to be met over a years, as appropriate.
No material to provide an performance period of three change will be made to the type of opportunity to earn years.
performance conditions without an upper quartile prior shareholder consultation.
level of total Dividend equivalents may be remuneration as provided on vested shares.
compared to actual remuneration Malus and clawback provisions earned by the are included in the rules of the comparator group.
The performance Awards granted prior to the conditions have 2014 AGM will vest in been chosen to accordance with the provisions alignthe LTIP with of the LTIP rules, as approved the performance by shareholders at the date of ofthe business.
Pension To provide Salary supplement of 25.5 per N A N A competitive levels of cent of base salary in lieu of retirement benefit.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert pay this salary supplement into a supplementary pension plan 3 with effect from 6 April 2011.
1 TSR provides focus on improving profitability and driving up growth in shareholder value.
It also provides alignment with shareholders.
2 EPS provides focus on improving profitability, which in turn drives up growth in shareholder value.
3 Participants who have pension savings at or close to the lifetime pension allowance may choose to stop contributions to the Company scheme and receive the amounts that would otherwise have been made by the Company as a cash payment.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert have chosen to pay this amount into the supplementary pension plan.
66 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 1.
POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Objective and link to Operation Maximum potential Performance the strategy value conditions and assessment Other benefits To provide competitive Benefits include: Cost of providing a car N A levels of employment benefit, life assurance benefits.
car benefit or private medical insurance equivalent: and permanent health private medical insurance.
insurance: permanent health insurance: and life assurance of four times base salary.
The level of benefits provided is reviewed annually to ensure they remain market competitive.
Shareholding policy To ensure that Requirement to build and N A N A executiveDirectors and maintain a holding of at other seniorexecutives least 200 per cent of interestsare aligned salary.
The Committee withthose of retains the discretion to shareholdersover a increase this minimum longertime horizon.
The shareholding requirement would be targeted over five years and executive Directors would be required to retain 50 per cent of their post-tax number of shares until this requirement was met.
All employee share To encourage wide The Company operates Scheme and Plan limits in There are no performance plans employee share UK Sharesave Schemes line with HMRC limits as conditions in line with ownership and thereby and Share Incentive Plans amended from time to HMRC requirements.
align employees interests in which the executive time.
Directors are eligible to participate which are HMRC approved and open to all eligible staff in the UK.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans, and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 1.
POLICY TABLE CONTINUED CHAIRMAN Objective and link to Operation Maximum potential Performance the strategy value conditions and assessment Fees To attract a Chairman Fee levels are set at the Fee levels are set by N A with the requisite skills level paid for the reference to the median andexperience to comparable role at ofthis peer group and to perform the role.
companies of a similar reflect the value sizeand complexity to contributed by the Domino within the Chairman to the FTSE250.
Fee levels are reviewed When considering any annually in November.
increases to fee levels in the normal course, the The Chairmans fees are Committee will take into determined by the consideration: Remuneration Committee.
increases provided to comparable roles in the The Company will pay comparator group: reasonable expenses pay and employment incurred by the Chairman.
conditions of employees throughout the Group, including increases provided to the employee population: and inflation.
68 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 1.
POLICY TABLE CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Objective and link to Operation Maximum potential Performance the strategy value conditions and assessment Fees To attract non-executive Fee levels are set at the Fee levels are set by N A Directors with the level paid for comparable reference to the median of requisite skills and roles at companies of a this peer group.
Fee levels experience to perform similar size and complexity are reviewed annually in the role.
to Domino within the November.
When considering any The non-executive increases to fee levels in Director fee structure is a the normal course, the matter for the full Board.
Board will take into consideration: The Company will pay reasonable expenses increases provided to incurred by non-executive comparable roles in the Directors.
comparator group: pay and employment conditions of employees throughout the Group, including increases provided to the employee population: and inflation.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY Our principle is that the pay of any new recruit would be determined following the same principles as for the executive Directors disclosed in the Policy Table.
The Committee will not pay more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and is mindful of guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced shortor long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance conditions associated with an award.
The table overleaf summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 2.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Salary Set by reference to market and taking into account individual experience and expertise in the context of the role.
Maximum variable incentive Bonus and long-term incentive of 150 per cent and 100 per cent of base salary respectively i. e. 250 per cent total in line with our current policy for executive Directors 350 per cent of salary if a sign-on payment is made.
Sign-on payments The Committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
However, in exceptional circumstances where the Committee decides to provide this type of compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
In addition, where practical the Committee will endeavour to consult with its key shareholders prior to entering into any commitment.
The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to 100 per cent of salary which will only be provided in exceptional circumstances.
Share buy-outs The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buy-out, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy-out within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive is non-UK domiciled, the Company may provide, as a one-off or ongoing as part of the Directors relocation benefits, compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile as determined appropriate and on a case-by-case basis.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and schooling.
70 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 3.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The Companys policy on Directors service contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end date.
Director Effective term Notice period Nigel Bond Rolling with no fixed expiry date 12 months by the Company, 6 months by executive Director Andrew Herbert Rolling with no fixed expiry date 12 months by the Company, 6 months by executive Director The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12 month period will apply for executive Directors.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
Under their letters of appointment, the non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are entitled to receive six months notice of the termination of their appointment.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
TERMINATION PAYMENTS The Committee will honour executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
Ifa contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive Directors office or employment.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Remuneration Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
Approach Application of Remuneration Committee discretion Base salary Salary is paid in lieu of notice.
None Benefits Benefits are also provided in lieu of notice, including None pension, medical, permanent health insurance, life insurance, travel cover, car allowance.
Bonus If the individual is a good leaver, the Plan will The Committee has discretion to determine that Domino Printing Sciences operate as if the participant remained employed anindividual is a good leaver.
This discretion would plc 2015 Deferred Bonus other than the maximum bonus capable of being only be used in exceptional circumstances and Plan earned for the year being pro-rated to the amount where practical the Committee would consult with of the financial year worked.
key shareholders prior to its exercise.
A 'good leaver' is defined as a participant ceasing to be in employment by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement or at the Committees discretion.
All deferred bonuses will vest at the end of the relevant three year deferral periods if the participant is a good leaver.
Deferred bonuses lapse if the participant is a bad leaver any participant who is not a good leaver.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 3.
SERVICE CONTRACTS CONTINUED Approach Application of Remuneration Committee discretion Long-term incentive A Bad leaver is defined as a participant ceasing to On cessation of employment the Committee has be in Employment by reason of incompetence, the ability to waive or amend performance misconduct or resignation.
The Committee also has discretion not terminates for a bad leaver reason, all unvested to apply time pro-rating to awards in the case of awards lapse immediately.
The Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional circumstances.
A Good leaver is defined as a participant whose employment ceases for any reason other than a bad leaver reason.
Awards held by a good leaver will vest immediately on cessation of employment to the extent that performance conditions as waived, varied or amended by the Committee are satisfied and time pro-rated unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Other contractual None None obligations POLICY ON CHANGE OF CONTROL Plan Approach Discretion Bonus The participant will receive a bonus based on the The Committee will have discretion on whether to Domino Printing Sciences level of the satisfaction of the performance pro-rate to time.
plc 2015 Deferred Bonus conditions at the date of the change of control.
Plan It is the Committees policy in normal circumstances The Committee will make all decisions in relation to to pro-rate to time: however, in exceptional the Plan immediately prior to the change of control circumstances where the nature of the transaction becoming effective.
produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided the performance targets are met the Any payments will be made immediately following Committee will consider whether pro-rating is the Committees determination and conditional on equitable.
the change of control occurring.
All deferred share awards will vest following the Committees determination and conditional on the change of control occurring.
LTIP Awards would vest based on the level of Under the terms of the LTIP, on a change of control, satisfaction of the performance conditions at the the Committee has the ability to waive or amend date of the change of control and subject to performance conditions.
The Committee also has pro-rating to the time elapsed.
discretion not to apply time pro-rating to awards.
72 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 4.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The graph below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer based on our stated Remuneration Policy.
Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable for the reporting period as a result of the achievement of performance conditions that relate to that period i. e. annual bonus payments.
Maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150 per cent of base salary for executive Directors.
Multiple period variable Money or other assets received or receivable for multiple reporting periods as a result of the achievement of performance conditions over a given period ending in the year ended 31 October 2014 or shortly after i. e. LTIP payments.
Maximum LTIP opportunity is 100 per cent of base salary for executive Directors.
Fixed element Annual variable 1,800 Multiple period variable 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows: Scenario Description Minimum Fixed pay only no variable payments under the bonus and Companys LTIP.
On-target This has been based on 75 per cent of base salary bonus award being earned and 50 per cent vesting of the LTIP.
Maximum This has been based on 150 per cent of base salary bonus award being earned and 100 per cent vesting of the LTIP.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 73 Remuneration 000 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 5.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE 6.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS COMPANY IN DEVELOPING POLICY The views of our shareholders are very important to us and the The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms Committee is happy to receive constructive feedback with respect of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract to our remuneration policies or structure which we take on board and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the to formulate our arrangements.
development of our Remuneration Policy for executive Directors.
However, employee views are not specifically sought in As disclosed earlier in this report, the Remuneration Committee determining this policy.
The Company does not use any consulted with the Companys major shareholders when designing remuneration comparison metrics.
the Domino Printing Sciences plc 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan and other changes set out in the proposed Policy.
In explaining the Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and background and design of the Bonus Plan, the central elements of business performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes, the Companys remuneration policy were explained.
A majority of which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, those shareholders consulted expressed their support for the new enable all employees to share in the success of the Group.
All plan and associated changes to the Policy.
employees are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP, with subsidiary general managers and other senior managers also eligibleto participate in the executive share option schemes asoutlined below.
SAVE AS YOU EARN SAYE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES All UK-based employees including executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme.
This is not subject to any performance conditions.
Since this is a standard, HMRC approved scheme open to all employees it was not considered appropriate to include such conditions.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN SIP The Company operates a HMRC approved SIP to enable employees to invest in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way.
This plan is open to all UK-based employees.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES The Company has operated executive share option schemes since 1985.
Executive Directors and other senior executives do not participate in these schemes.
Executive share options are currently granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers.
The exercise of executive options granted after 2003 is conditional on EPS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RPI plus 9 per cent.
For options granted before 2005, basic EPS was used for the performance condition.
For options granted in 2005, and subsequent years, underlying EPS is used.
Achievement of EPS performance conditions is assessed by reference to earnings per share as reported in the Groups audited results and the RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
74 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014
