58 Governance Directors Remuneration Report DEAR SHAREHOLDERS In setting our remuneration policy for 2014 15, our overriding objectives have been to promote sustainable value creation, incentivise better performance, address the risk of shorttermism, be simple and be aligned with the workforce.
This is our first report prepared under the new reporting regulations and, in line with best practice, it has been arranged in two parts.
The first part of our report, on pages 60 to 65, describes our remuneration policy.
This is now subject to legally binding shareholder approval of resolution 3 at our AGM in September 2014.
The second part of this new format report, on pages 66 to 74, is our annual report on remuneration.
This explains how our policy has been implemented and is subject to an advisory vote at our AGM resolution 4.
Last year, as early adopters of the new BIS disclosure guidelines, the Committee engaged extensively with our major shareholders and their representative bodies regarding our remuneration policy.
We have listened to the feedback received and this year a number of changes are proposed, both to reflect the views of investors and to ensure the Group continues to be able to attract and retain talented Executive Directors and senior managers Key responsibilities to meet the Groups needs.
We provided a high level of disclosure in our remuneration report Ensuring the Groups remuneration last year and, with the exception of the changes set out below, this policy remains the same: arrangements support its strategy, align We have decided to discontinue the operation of the Share Matching Plan SMP for with its values and drive performance.
the Executive Directors which provided for performance share awards of up to 75% Maintaining a competitive of salary per annum and, instead, make increased Performance Share Plan PSP remuneration policy appropriate awards and increase the annual bonus opportunity.
This will simplify our remuneration to the business environment of the arrangements but require approval of an increase in the annual award limit for the countries in which we operate, PSP at the AGM.
thereby ensuring we can attract We have listened carefully to the debate about emerging best practice for longterm and retain talented individuals.
incentive plans such as our PSP.
We have decided to maintain the current three year Aligning senior executives performance period and to introduce a new requirement for Executive Directors that remuneration with the interests shares that vest under the PSP at the end of the three year period must be retained for of longterm shareholders whilst a further two years before they can be sold.
We consider that this change will further ensuring that remuneration align the interests of our Executive Directors with those of our investors.
is fair but not excessive.
Last year, some investors requested that the Committee give consideration this year Making recommendations to the Board to increasing the level of minimum shareholding requirements for Executive Directors.
in respect of the Chairmans fees.
The Committee has decided this year to increase the minimum holdings as a percentage Setting targets for the of salary from 150% to 225% for the Group Chief Executive and from 100% to 175% performancerelated elements for the Group Finance Director.
We would expect these holding levels to be met within of remuneration packages.
five years of appointment previously four years.
Oversight of our overall policy for Linked to the discontinuation of the SMP described above, we have decided to increase senior management remuneration the maximum annual bonus opportunity and PSP award for Executive Directors.
In terms and of our employee share plans.
of annual bonus, the opportunity will increase to 200% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for the Group Finance Director.
In terms of Ensuring appropriate independent the PSP, the maximum award will be increased to 225% of salary for the Group Chief advisers are appointed to provide Executive on a phased basis and 175% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
There relevant advice and guidance to will therefore be no increase in opportunity for the Group Finance Director and, phased the Committee.
over two years, an increase in opportunity of 50% of salary for the Group Chief The Remuneration Committees Terms Executive.
This increase will seek to correct his below market salary level, but only of Reference can be found at if stretching performance targets are met.
com investors The performance measures applied under our PSP are a combination of total shareholder corporategovernance committees return TSR 50%, average adjusted earnings per share EPS 25% and three year average adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE 25%.
The Committee continues to believe that these are the most appropriate measures for assessing the overall longterm performance of the Group.
Whilst we do not propose to change the Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 59 measures, we do consider that the discontinuance of the SMP We have reviewed the effectiveness of the application of our which did not use TSR and its replacement with PSP awards remuneration policy to date and continue to be satisfied that means that the 50% weighting towards TSR is too high.
With the overall approach also provides good alignment of executive the additional two year holding period for shares vesting under behaviour with shareholder interests and does not encourage the PSP we feel that a more balanced weighting in future is excessive risk taking.
achieved with an equal weighting of the three measures for future awards TSR, EPS and ROACE.
This year the Committee has decided that for the Group Chief Executive a base salary increase of 2.2% in line with that received by the rest of the workforce is appropriate.
This leaves the salary of the Group Chief Executive circa 10% below the Kathleen ODonovan midmarket salary for his role and so will not be in line with our Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 June 2014 stated policy.
However, the Committee is satisfied that a lower salary with higher bonus potential and rebalanced longterm REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP incentives with the additional two year holding period and Chairman of increased shareholding guidelines creates the right balance the Committee Members and level of potential remuneration.
1 Kathleen ODonovan Chris Britton, Chris Bunker, Gareth Davis, In terms of the new Group Finance Director, Adrian Marsh, 2 3 Ian Griffiths, Philippe Mellier, who was appointed by the Company to his first Group Finance 2 Jonathan Nicholls, Louise Smalley Director role at a below market base salary, it is the Committees intention, in line with our stated policy and subject to continued 1 C hris Bunker resigned from the Board with effect from 3 September 2013. satisfactory performance, to increase his base pay over time to 2 Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalley joined the Board on 23 June 2014. a midmarket level.
In this context, the Group Finance Directors 3 P hilippe Mellier resigned from the Board with effect from 11 February 2014. salary will be increased this August by 5%.
We also received feedback and views from shareholders on matters related to remuneration during the year.
Shareholders do not speak with a single voice and, as a Committee, we have to balance individual perspectives with our overall responsibility to ensure that remuneration arrangements enable us to attract and retain talented employees to deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THE FOLLOWING MAIN MATTERS DURING THE YEAR: June 2013 December 2013 January 2014 March 2014 April 2014 Key agenda item Key agenda item Key agenda item Key agenda item Key agenda item Received an update Discussed the detail Received a further Authorised 2012 13 Received an update on the bonus payments.
2013 14 remuneration policy on 2013 14 annual around the 2013 14 update on the 2013 14 bonus plan.
remuneration policy remuneration policy investor consultation.
Approved targets for investor consultation.
Reviewed and approved Considered the changes to the UK Sharesave approach to 2014 share Reviewed the targets Reviewed Approved 2012 13 Directors Plan rules, updating them incentive awards.
in line with the Finance for 2014 15 bonus Set the annual agenda Reviewed senior executive Reviewed the Executive Act 2013. and PSP awards.
for 2014 15 for the remuneration benchmarking.
Directors and senior Reviewed and approved the Committee.
executives pay incentive International Sharesave Plan Defined the remuneration arrangements.
rules the main provisions of policy for 2013 14.
Had oversight of which are the same as for the remuneration policy UK Plan, subject to minor for senior management country specific variances.
Reviewed and adopted the 2012 13 PSP award US Stock Purchase Plan rules, TSR, EPS and ROACE subject to final approval at target proposals.
