REMUNERATION REPORT How our remuneration is aligned to strategy The principles behind, and the reasons for, the overall remuneration structure that we have adopted for our Executive Directors are directly related to our long term strategic goal of delivering shareholder value through the profitable growth of a quality business.
Since the flotation of the Company our executive remuneration has been structured specifically: To pay fairly and appropriately for an individuals role and responsibilities: To reward strong performance: To be focused on long term value creation: To align executives strongly with shareholders through share ownership.
A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors potential remuneration is variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder return.
Discretion is allowed in certain circumstances to ensure rewards are appropriate and overall levels of pay are analysed carefully each year.
This is consistent with delivery of the objectives set out in our corporate strategy, which are all long term in nature: namely the growth and development of our specialist product offer, our stores portfolio, our multi-channel capability and our infrastructure.
Our approach is also in keeping with the family origin of the business, and is important to the Adderley family who remain our majority shareholders.
It is our intention to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure which executives and shareholders alike can easily understand.
Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, set out on page 47: the Policy Report and the Annual Report on Implementation, which follow.
The Policy Report sets out the Directors remuneration policy, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in November 2014 for the first time.
Subject to shareholder approval, the policy will be effective as of 11 November 2014.
The shareholder vote on the policy report will be binding, and if not passed the Policy Report must be amended and put to a further vote at a specially convened General Meeting.
Once the Policy Report has been approved, no payment may be paid to a Director or past Director unless it is consistent with the approved policy unless shareholder approval is sought.
The exception to this is if the payment is made pursuant to a contractual obligation that was in force at 27 June 2012 when the new Regulations came into force.
The Policy Report which we are putting forward for approval is consistent with the policy which applied during the 2013 14 financial year.
The Annual Report on Implementation sets out how the policy has been applied during the financial year being reported on and how it will be applied in the coming year.
This report will also be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in November 2014, although the vote on the implementation report is advisory.
If this vote were not passed, the Company would consult with shareholders and would be obliged to put the Policy Report back to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015.
This report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
48 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials The Policy Report Directors remuneration policy 2014 The policy set out below will take binding effect from the date of its approval by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
It will remain in force for three years, with approval being sought for renewal of the policy at the latest at the 2017 AGM.
The information contained in this report is unaudited unless specifically stated as being audited.
Future policy table The following table sets out the structure of remuneration for Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to Fixed remuneration for the role.
strategic objectives To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy.
Reflects the size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities.
Base level set in the context of: Pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
Size, scale and complexity of the role.
Should comprise a minority of potential remuneration, with base salary normally set at a median or below, except where the director is also a significant shareholder.
Maximum opportunity Reviewed annually, with percentage increases in line with the Company-wide review unless other circumstances apply, such as: A significant change in the size, scale or complexity of the role or of the Companys business Development and performance in role for example on a new appointment base salary might be initially set at a lower level with the intention of increasing over time.
The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum base salary that may be paid to an Executive Director within the terms of this policy.
Performance metrics None, although performance of the individual is considered at the annual salary review.
No recovery provisions apply to base salary.
Retirement benefits Purpose and link to To provide a competitive post-retirement benefit.
Operation Contribution equivalent to a percentage of base salary made to a defined contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity Median rate for companies of a similar size and complexity.
No element other than base salary is pensionable.
No recovery provisions apply to retirement benefits.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Benefits Purpose and link to To provide a competitive benefits package.
Operation A range of benefits are provided, which may include car or car allowance: private health insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: use of a car and driver in connection with the role: colleague discount.
Additional benefits, such as relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
For non-UK executives none at present the Committee may consider additional allowances in accordance with standard practice.
Maximum opportunity Current benefits provided are described in the Annual Report on Implementation on pages 60 to 68.
The Committee reserves the right to provide such benefits as it considers necessary to support the strategy of the Company.
The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum cost to the Company of benefits to be paid.
No recovery provisions apply to benefits.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to Rewards and incentivises delivery of annual financial, strategic and personal targets.
strategic objectives Operation Paid in cash, after the results for the financial year have been audited, subject to performance targets having been met.
Maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity 100% of base salary per annum.
For on target performance 40% of base salary.
For threshold performance 5% of base salary.
Performance metrics Stretching performance targets are set each year.
Performance targets for the Executive Directors are typically based on financial and strategic objectives set by the Remuneration Committee annually.
Financial objectives include, but are not limited to, budgeted EPS for the financial year taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations.
The strategic objectives will vary depending on the specific business priorities in a particular year Typically, the majority of the annual bonus for Executives is subject to financial objectives Once targets have been applied, the Committee may apply judgement to amend the bonus payment up or down in the light of performance against personal job objectives, delivery of strategic KPIs and share price performance, although there is no formulaic link.
The maximum opportunity including any amendment is 100% of base salary.
Subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the year in respect of which the bonus is paid, if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct.
For bonus payable in respect of financial year 2014 15 onwards, the Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back the bonus up to three years after payment in these circumstances: and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and claw back for an unlimited period of time.
50 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Long Term Incentive Plan Purpose and link to Supports delivery of strategy by targeting EPS growth, which the Committee believes to be closely strategic objectives aligned to the drivers of growth In the business over the long term.
Rewards strong financial performance and sustained increase in shareholder value over the long term.
Aligns with shareholder interests through the delivery of shares.
Operation Conditional awards are made annually which can take the form of a conditional award, nil-cost option or nominal value option, with vesting subject to performance over three financial years.
Shares earned after applying the performance criteria are subject to an additional two year holding period.
For further details please see below.
During this two year period dividend entitlement including, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, any special dividend will also accrue and be paid at the end of that period.
Maximum opportunity Maximum face value of shares at award date is 150% of base salary.
Maximum opportunity shares worth 150% of base salary at award date.
Threshold performance 25% of the award.
Straight-line vesting between the above points.
Performance metrics Growth in fully diluted EPS over the three year performance period compared with growth in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
The Remuneration Committee considers the target annually taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations.
For information, the target applicable to outstanding awards at the date of this report is: No part of the award will vest until fully diluted EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
25% of the award vests at RPI growth plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at RPI growth plus 15%.
Between those figures the award will vest on a straight line basis.
Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the performance period to which the award relates, if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct.
In respect of awards made from 2014, the Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back vested awards for up to three years from vesting in these circumstances: and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and claw back for an unlimited period of time.
Shareholding targets Purpose and link to Aligns with shareholder interests through shareholding.
strategic objectives Operation Executive Directors are required to build a beneficial holding of shares equal to 100% of salary after 3 years and 200% of salary after 5 years from appointment.
Shares that have been earned under the LTIP after the relevant three year performance period and are expected to vest at the end of the two year holding period taking account of any that would be sold to cover tax and national insurance liability will be treated as if they are beneficially owned for the purpose of this test.
An Executive Director would be expected to retain any shares that vest under the LTIP after sale of shares to cover tax and national insurance liability on exercise until this requirement is met.
Given that the maximum award at date of grant is 150% of salary and a Director would be required to sell 47% of shares earned after applying performance criteria to cover his or her tax and national insurance liability, this holding requirement is likely to require a personal investment in shares as well as vesting of shares under the LTIP.
Failure to adhere to the requirement would be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee when considering whether to issue further awards under the LTIP.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 REMUNERATION REPORT continued All Employee Share Plan Sharesave Purpose and link to Promotes share ownership by all eligible colleagues including Executive Directors.
strategic objectives Operation All UK employees with a minimum service requirement are eligible to join the UK tax approved Dunelm Group Savings Related Share Option Plan the Sharesave.
Monthly savings are made over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Dunelm shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price or such other amount as permitted by law at date of invitation to join the scheme.
Invitations are normally issued annually at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also has discretion to set the minimum service requirement, maximum discount, maximum monthly savings and any other limits such as scaling back within the terms of the scheme rules.
Maximum opportunity Maximum participation limits are set by the UK tax authorities.
Currently the maximum limit is savings of 500 per month having increased from 250 per month in April 2014.
Share Option Plan Purpose and link to Promotes share ownership by all eligible colleagues.
strategic objectives Note that although Executive Directors are eligible to receive options under the rules of this scheme, our policy is that this scheme is for below-Board colleagues and that the Executive Directors should not participate.
Operation Options are granted to senior employees, usually annually, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The option price is the market price of Dunelm shares on the business day preceding the date of grant.
Options may be exercised after three years from grant provided that performance criteria over a three year financial period have been met.
Maximum opportunity No individual limits apply to individuals who are not Executive Directors.
Current practice is to grant awards over shares with a market value of between 50% and 75% of salary.
Our policy is that Executive Directors should not receive options under this scheme as well as the LTIP in any year.
For information, the scheme rules provide that the maximum opportunity for Executive Directors options is 150% of base salary at grant date, although the Remuneration Committee may grant awards up to a value of 200% of salary.
Performance metrics The Remuneration Committee may select a performance condition that applies to the grant of options.
The condition applied by the Remuneration Committee is that growth in fully diluted EPS over the three year performance period is 5% or more.
Subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the performance period to which the award relates, if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct.
52 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to To attract and retain a high calibre Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering competitive strategic objectives fee levels.
Operation Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director participates in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee, with supplemental fees for additional Board responsibilities.
The level of fee reflects the size and complexity of the role and the time commitment.
Fees are reviewed annually and increased in line with the Company-wide increase.
In addition there will be a periodic review against market rates and taking into account time commitment and any change in size, scale or complexity of the business.
Flexibility is retained to increase fee levels in certain circumstances, for example, if required to recruit a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of the appropriate calibre.
With the exception of colleague discount, no benefits are paid to the Chairman or the NonExecutive Directors, and they do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Maximum opportunity Maximum fees to be paid by way of fees to the Non-Executive Directors are set in the Companys Articles of Association.
Fees paid to each Director are disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may also make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval but taking into account the interests of shareholders.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Performance measures and how targets are set The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures that it believes are: Aligned with the Groups strategic goals.
Unambiguous and easy to calculate.
Transparent to Directors and shareholders.
The financial performance measure applicable to both the annual cash bonus and the LTIP is based on growth in earnings per share EPS over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considered the use of EPS as a performance measure carefully when the Company was floated in 2006 and has discussed it with shareholders regularly.
It was recently discussed at the Corporate Governance presentation in January 2014.
EPS is believed to be closely aligned to the drivers of growth for the business and in the long term, EPS performance is expected to be reflected in shareholder value.
As discussed with institutional shareholders at the most recent Corporate Governance presentation in January 2014, EPS is a more suitable performance measure for Dunelm than for many other companies and it is therefore considered appropriate to use it as a single measure, supplemented by discretion reflecting non-financial performance measures as described below.
The use of EPS as a primary measure for Dunelm is considered appropriate because of the absence of leverage in the business and because the capital expenditure controls exercised by the Board are sufficiently rigorous to avoid EPS accretion by means of ineffective investment of capital.
Should this change the Committee would review whether an additional financial underpin would be appropriate.
Cash bonus Both financial and non-financial performance measures apply to the annual cash bonus.
Each Directors bonus is therefore linked to both personal performance and Group strategy and performance.
There is a two step process: application of financial targets, followed by a consideration of performance against KPIs and personal non-financial job objectives linked to delivery of the strategy and share price performance.
This may lead to an adjustment up or down to result in a payment that the Committee considers to be fair.
The financial target is set by the Committee each year, based on delivery of budget EPS for the financial year.
Market consensus and individual broker expectations are taken into account when setting the Budget.
The Committee reserves the right to adjust the financial performance target or change the performance condition if justified by the circumstances, for example if there was a major capital transaction.
Following application of the financial performance target, the Committee may exercise its judgement to adjust the bonus payment up or down in the light of performance against personal, non-financial job objectives linked to delivery of the strategy, set at the commencement of the year and assessed by the Remuneration Committee.
In addition to personal job objectives, the Committee refers to certain strategic KPIs and share price performance to inform its judgement, although there will not be a formulaic link.
The maximum cash bonus that could be paid, including any exercise of judgement, is 100% of basic salary.
Any adjustment and the reason for it would be disclosed.
LTIP The EPS target for the LTIP is based on growth in EPS compared to the increase in the Index of Retail Prices RPI over the performance period.
The targets that apply to awards that are outstanding are set out in the table above.
The number of shares comprised in an award or the performance target which applies may be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the plan rules if justified by the circumstances, for example if there were a major capital transaction.
Any amendment and the reason for it would be fully disclosed.
A copy of the plan rules is available from the Company Secretary on request.
LTIP awards made to Executive Directors prior to approval of this policy may vest on their original terms.
54 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Illustrative performance scenarios The following graphs set out what each of the Executive Directors could earn in the first financial year to which the policy applies 2014-15 under the following scenarios: Will Adderley David Stead 1,200 1200 1200 47% 1050 1,003 1000 864 900 41% 800 26% 750 640 600 600 528 100% 74% 53% 27% 19% 450 400 315 21% 300 200 100% 60% 32% 150 0 0 Minimum In line Maximum Minimum In line Maximum with with expectations expectations Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay The following assumptions have been made in respect of the above scenarios: Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay comprising base salary, benefit and pension only with no vesting under the cash bonus or LTIP see table below Benefits Base As in single Pension Last known figure table 10% of last salary page 61 known salary Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Will Adderley 560 24 56 640 David Stead 275 12 28 315 In line with expectations Fixed pay plus a cash bonus at on target performance of 40% and vesting of 25% of shares under the LTIP Maximum performance Fixed pay plus 100% of cash bonus and 100% of shares vesting under the LTIP 150% of base.
It should be noted that the numbers above are likely to be different to the actual pay that is earned by the Executive Directors during the year.
Actual pay will reflect company and personal performance over the relevant performance period.
Also we are required to show the value of the LTIP award that is expected to be made in the year based on face value at the date of grant without making any assumptions for share price growth.
Please note that as in the past two years, Will Adderley has waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
Recovery There is provision for recovery of variable pay, as highlighted in the policy table.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, recovery malus may be made against any unpaid cash bonus or unvested LTIP options this includes awards during the two year deferral period following the end of the three year performance period in the following circumstances: performance to which a bonus or LTIP award relates proves to have been misstated: or there has been a miscalculation in the extent to which performance conditions have been met in respect of previous awards made to the individual that have vested and been exercised: or there has been gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
From 2014 claw back may be operated at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee against all variable awards made after 1 July 2014 in the above circumstances, for up to three years from payment or vesting as appropriate: and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and claw back for an unlimited period of time.
Salary, pension and benefits and Sharesave options are not subject to recovery.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Service contracts and loss of office payments All of the Executive Directors have service contracts.
The notice period for termination is 12 months from either party.
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director it would honour its contractual commitment.
Any payment of salary on termination is contractually restricted to a maximum of the value of salary plus benefits for the notice period.
If termination was with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in respect of any termination payment.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to make a payment in respect of annual cash bonus, provided that it is pro-rated to service.
The limited circumstances in which unexercised LTIP awards might be exercised following termination of an Executive Directors service contract are set out below.
If the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to allow exercise of an unvested LTIP award, it may make a cash payment in lieu of the anticipated value of the award, calculated at the date of the payment taking into account pro rating of the award and the extent to which performance criteria may apply, as appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The term is for an initial period of three years with a provision for termination of one months notice from either party, or three months notice from either party in the case of Geoff Cooper, the Chairman.
Letters are renewed for up to two additional three year terms, and then renewed annually.
The letter of appointment will terminate without compensation if the Director is not reappointed at the AGM.
The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Exercise of LTIP and Sharesave options following termination of employment LTIP If a participant leaves the employment of the Group, the following provisions apply to options granted under the LTIP: Options that have vested but have not yet been exercised may be exercised within 6 months of cessation of employment 12 months in the case of death.
Except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, options which have not yet vested, but where the performance period has elapsed for example if cessation of employment occurs during the deferral period applicable to LTIP options granted from 2013 onwards, may be exercised within 6 months of the relevant vesting date or 12 months in the case of death, to the extent that the performance condition has been met.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to allow earlier exercise but would only use this in exceptional circumstances such as death or ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a good leaver.
If the participant leaves the Group before an option has vested and before the performance period has elapsed, the option will usually lapse.
Except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, the Remuneration Committee has a discretion to allow the exercise of options to which the performance period has not elapsed at the date of cessation of employment, within 6 months of the relevant vesting date or 12 months in the case of death.
The Remuneration Committee also has discretion to allow earlier exercise.
The Remuneration Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional circumstances such as death or ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a good leaver.
If early exercise is permitted, the Remuneration Committee may apply an adjustment to take into account the amount of time that has elapsed through the performance period and the extent to which any performance criteria have been met.
In all cases, unexercised LTIP awards would be subject to recovery malus in the circumstances described above.
In respect of LTIP awards made after 1 July 2014, claw back may also apply to vested awards.
Sharesave If a participant leaves the Group, options granted under the Sharesave will normally lapse, but may be exercised within 6 months or 12 months in the case of death from the cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, or redundancy, or the employing company leaving the Group.
Executive Share Option Plan Executive Directors do not participate in the Executive Share Option Plan, therefore the details below are given for information only.
If a participant leaves the Group, options will normally lapse.
If the participant dies, an unvested option will vest, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
The Committee may adjust the number of options that vest to take account of the amount of time that has elapsed through the performance period and the extent to which the performance condition has been met.
56 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, sale of the entity that employs him out of the Group or for any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion except for gross misconduct, a participants unvested option will usually continue until the normal vesting date unless the Remuneration Committee determines that the option will vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the Group.
It may then be exercised within 6 months of the vesting date.
Change of control and other corporate events LTIP The following provisions apply to awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan in accordance with the Plan rules if there is a change of control or winding up of the Company: Any vested but unexercised options may be exercised.
Any options in respect of which the performance period has elapsed and to which the performance condition has been applied will vest and may be exercised.
Any options in respect of which the performance period has not elapsed may be exercised at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, subject to any adjustment to take into account the amount of time that has elapsed through the performance period and the extent to which any performance criteria have been met.
The Executive Director may agree that his awards are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as an alternative.
If the Company has been or will be affected by any demerger, dividend in specie, super dividend or other transaction which will adversely affect the current or future value of any awards under the LTIP, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine the extent to which any awards should vest and the period within which Options may be exercised.
A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company Secretary on request.
Sharesave Sharesave options may be exercised within 6 months following a change of control or winding up of the Company, using savings in his or her account at the date of exercise.
The participant may agree that his or her awards are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as an alternative If the Company has been or will be affected by a capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction, consolidation or other variation in respect of which HMRC will allow the variation of options, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration Committee, with the consent of HMRC, to vary the number and or nominal value of shares covered by an option or the option price to be varied proportionately.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, options will vest to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied at the date of change of control, and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, taking into account the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the relevant event.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may permit or, in the case of an internal reorganisation, require options to be exchanged for equivalent options which relate to shares in another company.
If other corporate events occur such as a demerger, delisting or other event which, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee may affect the current or future value of shares, the Remuneration Committee may determine whether options will vest.
Vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of any performance condition and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating to reflect the period from the grant date to the date of the relevant event.
In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or, other than in the case of an option granted under the part of the plan approved by HM Revenue & Customs, a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other similar event, which may, in the Remuneration Committees opinion, affect the current or future value of shares, the number of shares subject to an option and the exercise price and or any performance condition attached to options, may be adjusted.
HM Revenue & Customs approval will be required for adjustment of an option granted under the part of the plan approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive pay and the pay of other colleagues Pay for all colleagues throughout the Group is set at a level that is fair for the role and responsibilities of the individual, and is designed to attract and retain high calibre talent that is needed to deliver the Groups strategy, without paying too much.
The remuneration of Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than other colleagues, so that a greater part of their pay is linked to successful delivery of strategy and aligned with shareholders.
They are also subject to shareholding targets.
The remuneration of colleagues below the Board reflects the seniority of the role, market practice and the ability of the individual to influence Company performance.
All eligible colleagues are encouraged to participate in the Sharesave scheme, which enables them to become shareholders at a discounted rate.
Participation is usually offered annually at the maximum price discount permitted currently 20%, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
In setting the policy for the Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to remuneration in the Group.
The base salary of Executive Directors may be increased annually in line with the Company-wide award unless other circumstances apply, as set out in the policy table.
The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues in relation to executive pay.
However colleagues have the opportunity to raise any concerns via the Head of Human Resources through the Colleagues Council, or anonymously through engagement surveys.
Recent engagement surveys have not identified executive pay to be a concern to colleagues.
Shareholder views The Board is committed to on-going engagement with shareholders in respect of all governance matters, including executive remuneration.
The Non-Executive Directors hold a Corporate Governance Day, usually annual, hosted by the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, to which all major shareholders are invited.
This enables both parties to discuss governance topics, including remuneration, informally.
In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors usually attend results presentations and a selection of shareholder meetings.
Formal feedback on shareholder views is given to the Board twice per annum by the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers.
The AGM reports issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, ISS and Pensions Investment Research Council PIRC are also considered by the Board.
All Directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting, and the Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee may be contacted via the Company Secretary during the year.
If any significant change to policy were proposed, the Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Companys remuneration policy was set at the time of its flotation in 2006, and has changed very little since then.
During the period only one new Executive Director appointment has been made.
The Committee recognises that some flexibility may be required if a new Executive Director were to be appointed during the life of this policy.
The Remuneration Committee will apply the following principles when agreeing a remuneration package for a new Director whether an external candidate or an internal promotion : The package must be sufficient to attract and retain the high calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the Companys strategy.
No more should be paid than is necessary.
Remuneration should be in line with the policy set out above, however the Committee reserves the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual needs of the recruitment provided the Committee believes the relevant decisions are in the best interests of the Company.
These circumstances might include: Where an interim appointment is made on a short term basis, including where the Chairman or another Non-Executive Director has to assume an executive position.
Employment commences at a time in the year when it is inappropriate to provide a bonus or share incentive award as there is insufficient time to assess performance: the quantum for the subsequent year might be increased proportionately instead.
An executive is recruited from a business or location that offered benefits that the Committee considers it appropriate to buy out but cannot do so under the specific terms of the regulations, or which the Committee considers it appropriate to offer.
58 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Examples of remuneration decisions that the Committee may decide are set out below: It may be appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, with a series of increases to reach the desired salary over a period of time, subject to performance.
A longer notice period of up to a maximum of 24 months might be offered, reducing by one month for every month served until the policy position is reached.
The Committee may also alter the performance criteria applicable to the initial annual bonus or LTIP award so that they are more applicable to the circumstances of the recruitment.
An internal candidate would be able to retain any outstanding variable pay awarded in respect of their previous role that pays out in accordance with its terms of grant.
The Committee does not intend to use any discretion in this section to make a non-performance related incentive payment for example a golden hello.
Appropriate costs and support will be provided if the recruitment requires the relocation of the individual.
The maximum level of variable pay that could be awarded to a new Executive Director in the first year of employment, excluding any buyout arrangements and awards in the first year of employment as set out above would normally be in line with the policy table set out above.
In addition, on hiring an external candidate the Committee may make arrangements to buy out remuneration that the individual has forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards and payments on a comparable basis to remuneration arrangements forfeited.
These awards or payments are excluded from the maximum level of variable pay referred to above: however, the Committees intention is that the value awarded or paid would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
In order to implement the arrangements described above, the Committee may rely on exemption 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules, which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
The Committee would explain the rationale for the remuneration package in the next annual report of the Company.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
No share incentives or performance related incentives would be offered.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Annual report on implementation Directors remuneration report on implementation 2014 This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
Although the policy was not in effect for 2013 14, the remuneration described below is consistent with it.
Committee membership and meetings The following Directors served on the Remuneration Committee during the year: Table 1 Committee membership Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Matt Davies 8 February 2012 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date Marion Sears acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Two meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Table 2 Attendance at Committee meetings Member Meetings attended: Marion Sears Chair 2 Geoff Cooper 2 Simon Emeny 2 Matt Davies 2 Liz Doherty 2 1 Andy Harrison 0 1 Andy Harrison joined the Board after the financial year end.
No Director is ever present when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
Advisers The Committee has an informal relationship with Deloitte.
This firm provides general advice in relation to executive remuneration on an ad hoc basis.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that they have received from Deloitte in the year has been objective and independent.
During the period Deloitte provided advice in relation to rule changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan.
Total fees paid to Deloitte in the year were 9,910.
2 Base salaries for Executive Directors were increased by 2% on 1 July 2013, in line with the Company-wide award.
Following the first review since 2010, fees for Non-Executive Directors were increased on 1 July 2013 as follows: Chairman from 100,000 to 120,000: base Non-Executive Director fee from 30,000 to 40,000: supplement for Senior Independent Director and Committee Chair 5,000.
Going forward it is intended that fees will rise in line with the Company-wide award.
3 Benefits include the cost to the Company of a car allowance and private health insurance for the individual and their family health insurance waived by David Stead.
The 2013 14 value also includes the taxable benefit in respect of the car and chauffeur provided to Nick Wharton and Will Adderley in connection with their roles.
4 Annual bonus is the amount earned in respect of the financial year 2013 14.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
5 LTIP award number for 2014 is the value of the LTIP award whose three year performance period ends on the last day of the financial period being reported 2013 14.
Details of how this value was calculated are set out in the note to table 5 below.
The comparable figure for 2012 13 is the actual value of the 2010 LTIP awards which vested in favour of Nick Wharton, Will Adderley and David Stead on 1 December 2013 based on the mid market price on 29 November 2013, of 900.0p.
The comparable figure in the 2012 13 annual report was based on the number of shares in the 2010 LTIP awards due to vest in favour of Nick Wharton, Will Adderley and David Stead on 1 December 2013 calculated using the average share price over the three months preceding the end of the performance period on 29 June 2013, which was 866.45p.
Note that the LTIP award vesting in favour of Nick Wharton in 2013 14 is his first full year LTIP award since joining the Group.
The award vesting in 2012 13 was pro rated to his service in 2009 10.
6 Pension is a fixed sum 10% of base salary contributed to a personal pension on behalf of the individual, or a salary supplement of the same amount.
Annual bonus Executive Directors were awarded an annual performance-related cash bonus for 2013 14 with a maximum potential payment of 100% of salary.
For Nick Wharton and David Stead, the performance criterion was earnings per share against budget: the Committee may then apply judgement to increase or decrease the amount payable taking into account performance against personal non-financial objectives relevant to each Director, linked to delivery of strategy.
For Will Adderley, 50% of the annual bonus is calculated according to the financial target and 50% is awarded for performance on strategic projects which are an important focus of his time.
For further details please see the policy report on page 49.
For the year ended 28 June 2014, budget EPS was 44.8p.
The financial target set was that no bonus would be paid until EPS reached 42.5p, and at 47.0 p maximum bonus would be paid.
Between those sums, bonus would be payable calculated on a straight line basis.
Market consensus for 2013 14 EPS at the date the target was set was 44.2p.
Reported EPS of 43.7p has therefore given rise to a bonus payable of 22.5% of base salary.
After due consideration of performance against personal job objectives and strategic KPIs the Committee resolved not to adjust the bonus as calculated by the EPS bonus formula.
The Committee has not disclosed the personal job objectives and strategic KPIs referred to above, as they are confidential, and also they are used to inform the Committees judgement as whether the bonus payable is fair, with no formulaic link.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Table 4 Annual bonus in respect of 2013-14 performance Bonus Percentage awarded of maximum award Nick Wharton 93,636 22.5 Will Adderley 59,625 22.5 David Stead 60,593 22.5 LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in 2013 14 Awards are made under the LTIP annually to Executive Directors of up to 150% of basic salary, with a three year performance period.
The performance target is based on growth in fully diluted EPS over the performance period.
For further information please see the policy report above.
Over the three-year performance period which ended on 28 June 2014, reported fully diluted EPS grew at a compound annual rate of 14.3 %.
This is 11.4 % above the compound annual growth in RPI over the same period.
Accordingly, 77.5 % of the November 2011 LTIP award will vest in November 2014 as follows: Table 5 LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in 2013-14 Percentage Shares of maximum vesting award Nick Wharton 107,888 77.5 Will Adderley 71,476 77.5 David Stead 69,804 77.5 The 2011 LTIP awards which vest in favour of Nick Wharton, Will Adderley and David Stead as described above are included in the single number for total remuneration for 2013 14 set out in table 3.
Their value has been calculated using the average share price over the three months preceding the end of the performance period on 28 June 2014, which was 924.13p.
62 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials LTIP awards made to Directors during 2013 14 LTIP awards were made to Executive Directors on 7 October 2013 as set out below: Table 6 LTIP awards made to Directors during 2013 14 Vesting date vesting deferred Face value at for 2 years date of award following end % vesting percentage of Performance of performance at threshold Name Award Number of shares salary Performance condition period period performance David Stead Nil cost 46,087 403,950 Growth in fully diluted July 2013 to 7 October 25% option under 150% EPS over the three year June 2016 2018 LTIP performance period compared with growth in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
No part of the award will vest until EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
100% of the award vests at RPI plus 15%.
Subject to a two year deferral period following the end of the performance period.
Nick Nil cost 71,220 624,240 As above July 2013 to 7 October 25% Wharton option under 150% June 2016 2018 LTIP Payments to past Directors and for loss of office audited There have been no payments to past Directors during the year.
No payments to Directors for loss of office have been made during the year.
Nick Wharton resigned from the Board on 10 September 2014.
Details of his severance terms are still to be finalised at the date of this report and will be posted on the Companys website once agreed in final form.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved that termination payments will cover contractual entitlements and conform to the policy set out in this report.
Statement of Directors share interests audited Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding target which requires them to build a beneficial holding of Dunelm shares with a value of 1x salary after 3 years and 2x salary after 5 years measured based on share price at the financial year end.
All Executive Directors comply with this requirement.
The following tables show the interests of the Directors in shares of the Company at 28 June 2014 as follows: Shares held beneficially Interests in nil cost options under the LTIP Interests in options under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Table 7 Directors beneficial shareholdings audited At 28 June2014 At 29 June 2013 1p Ordinary Shares 1p Ordinary Shares Will Adderley 61,890,303 61,827,347 David Stead 695,135 667,181 Geoff Cooper 181,611 181,611 Marion Sears 101,313 101,313 Nick Wharton 65,077 39,500 Simon Emeny 26,400 26,400 Matt Davies 4,500 4,500 Liz Doherty 2,500 0 Andy Harrison 0 0 There were no changes in Directors beneficial holdings between the financial year end and the date of this report.
Table 8 Directors interests in options under the LTIP at the period end audited Share options End of Market price Date Nature at 28 June performance of shares at Director of award of award 2014 period date of award Nick Wharton Dec 2010 Oneoff joining award 198,807 Dec 2015 503p Nov 2011 2011 14 LTIP 139,211 June 2014 431p Nov 2012 2012 15 LTIP 95,401 June 2015 642p Oct 2013 2013 16 LTIP 71,220 June 2016 876.5p Will Adderley Nov 2011 2011 14 LTIP 92,227 June 2013 431p David Stead Nov 2011 2011 14 LTIP 90,070 June 2014 431p Nov 2012 2012 15 LTIP 61,730 June 2015 642p Oct 2013 2013 16 LTIP 46,087 June 2016 876.5p None of the Non-Executive Directors have options under the LTIP.
All of the above were nil cost options, and except as stated below are subject to the performance condition noted in the policy table.
Vesting of the awards made in October 2013 is subject to a two year deferral.
At the end of the three year performance period, shares earned after applying the performance criteria are subject to an additional two year holding period.
During this two year period dividend entitlement including any special dividends will accrue and be paid at the end of that period.
Table 9 Directors options under Sharesave at the period end Shares Shares Market under under price option at option at Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise of shares 28 June 29 June during during during price at date of Vesting Expiry 2014 2013 period period period per share exercise date date Nick Wharton 2,493 2,493 - - - 361p - Jan 2015 Jun 2015 David Stead 2,493 2,493 - - - 361p - Jan 2015 Jun 2015 None of the other Directors have options under the Sharesave.
Share options and dilution The Remuneration Committee considers the provisions of the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Executive Remuneration when determining the number of shares over which share scheme incentive awards may be made.
At the date of this report, since flotation of the Group in 2006 options have been granted over 1.7% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Group does not hold any shares in an employee benefit trust.
64 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Jun 2014 Jan 2014 Aug 2013 Mar 2013 Oct 2012 May 2012 Dec 2011 Jul 2011 Feb 2011 Sep 2010 Apr 2010 Nov 2009 Jun 2009 Service contracts In accordance with the Groups policy, the service contracts of the Executive Directors have no fixed term, the notice period for termination is 12 months from either party and payments on termination are restricted to a maximum of the value of base salary and benefits for the notice period.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years with a provision for termination of one months notice from either party, or three months notice from either party in the case of Geoff Cooper, the Chairman.
Table 10 Directors service contracts Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Will Adderley 28 September 2006 n a 12 months David Stead 15 September 2003 n a 12 months Geoff Cooper 8 October 2004 1 month 3 months Marion Sears 22 July 2004 10 months 1 month Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 21 months 1 month Matt Davies 8 February 2012 7 months 1 month Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 19 months 1 month Andy Harrison 17 July 2014 35 months 1 month Since Geoff Cooper and Marion Sears have now served nine years on the Board seven of which are post flotation of the Company in 2006 their contracts are renewed for one year terms going forward with the notice period referred to above.
Relative TSR performance The graph below shows the Groups performance over five years, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the FTSE General Retail Index and the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen these indices for comparison because they provide a range of comparator companies which have similar market capitalisation, which are in the same sector and which face similar market and economic challenges in the long term.
Table 11 Total shareholder return performance graph rebased to 29 June 2008 100 1200 Dunelm FTSE 250 1000 FTSE All Share General Retailers 800 600 400 200 0 The shares traded in the range 811.5p to 1047p during the year and stood at 862.5p at 28 June 2014.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Table 12 Historic CEO pay The table below sets out the prescribed remuneration data for each of the individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive during each of the last five financial years Annual bonus Long-term incentive CEO Single payment against vesting rates figure of total maximum against maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % 2 FY13 14 Nick Wharton 1,594 22.5% 77.5% FY12 13 Nick Wharton 1,292 97.0% 86.7% FY11 12 Nick Wharton 853 100.0% n a 1 FY10 11 Nick Wharton 429 6.0% n a 1 FY10 11 Will Adderley 1,413 4.0% 100.0% FY09 10 Will Adderley 1,366 100.0% 100.0% 1 Will Adderley was CEO until he was succeeded by Nick Wharton on 1 February 2011.
The data for each Director for 2010 11 is pro rated by time of service as Chief Executive.
2 Nick Whartons first LTIP award vested and was exercised in December 2013.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of our other colleagues Table 13 Relative change in CEO pay Change in Change % of total % of total % change % change base salary in benefits bonus bonus in bonus in bonus 2012 13 to 2012 13 to earned earned earned earned 1 2013 14 2013 14 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 Chief Executive 2.0% 246% 22.5% 97.0% -76% 1% All colleagues per capita 2.4% 17% 24.9% 66.6% -57% 60% 1 The 2013 14 value includes the additional taxable benefit in respect of the car and chauffeur provided to Nick Wharton in connection with his role.
If this amount were excluded, the percentage change in benefits for 2012 13 to 2013 14 would be 0%.
Table 14 Relative spend on pay The chart below shows the all employee pay cost and returns to shareholders by way of dividends including special dividend and share buyback for 2012 13 and 2013 14.
2013 14 2012 13 increase 000 000 % Total spend on pay 93,027 87,178 6.7% Ordinary dividend to shareholders 33,411 29,386 13.7% Distributions to shareholders via share buy back 6,852 - n a Special distributions to shareholders 50,708 65,842 -23.0% This information is based on the following: Total spend on pay total employee costs from note 4 on page 93, including salaries and wages, social security costs, pension and share based payments.
Dividends taken from note 7 on page 94.
Share buyback taken from consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 85.
Executive Director external Board appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director or similar advisory or consultative role, subject to the Board being satisfied that there is no conflict of interest and that the position will not impact negatively on the executives commitment to their Dunelm role.
The Board may allow the executive to retain any remuneration received in respect of the appointment.
Nick Wharton was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Mothercare plc on 14 November 2013.
He retains his Director fee 30,192 in 2013 14.
David Stead was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc on 12 May 2014, prior to its admission to the London Stock Exchange on 20 May 2014.
He retains his Director fee 11,250 in 2013 14.
Will Adderley does not hold any external PLC Board appointments.
66 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Senior executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee provides oversight and guidance on the remuneration structure for below Board senior executives.
The package for new appointments is formally presented to the Committee for approval.
In conducting its assessment of senior executive remuneration the committee pays particular regard to whether any individual is incentivised to take risks inappropriate to their role and responsibilities.
Members of the senior management team are eligible for awards under either the LTIP or the Executive Share Option Plan market priced options.
They are also subject to shareholding targets as follows: Executives receiving LTIP Options 1 x base salary to be acquired over 5 years Executives receiving market priced options 0.5 x base salary to be acquired over time Statement of implementation of policy in the 2014 15 financial year Base salary, benefits and pension Base salary and benefits for each of the Executive Directors for 2014 15 are set out in the table below: Table 15 Base salary, benefits and pension for 2014 15 Base Increase Increase Increase salary year on year Benefits year on year Pension year on year Will Adderley 265,000 Base salary Car allowance: use of a car Increased 27,000 Unchanged as until date of as Executive and chauffeur in connection from 11 until date of a % of salary appointment as Deputy Chairman with his role: private health September appointment Chief Executive unchanged insurance for the individual 2014 due to as Chief increase waived and their family: permanent change of role Executive 560,000 from by Will health cover: life assurance: 11 September mobile phone 56,000 from 2014 11 September 2014 David Stead 274,690 2% Car allowance: private health Unchanged 28,000 2% insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone Basic salary increase and the corresponding increase in pension contribution or supplement with effect from 1 July 2014 are in line with the Group-wide award of 2%.
Annual bonus Each Executive Director has been awarded a bonus opportunity of 100% of basic salary, subject to a financial condition based on achievement of a target EPS for the financial year, taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations.
Nonfinancial personal objectives and targets linked to delivery of strategy will also be taken into account by the Committee alongside share price performance: the result based on financial performance may be adjusted in the light of these, although there is no formulaic link.
The actual targets have not been disclosed at this time as they are commercially sensitive and they are not formal targets.
The EPS budget targets will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
LTIP An award is expected to be made to David Stead in October 2014, equivalent to 150% of basic salary, based on the closing share price on the dealing day preceding the grant.
The terms of the award and the performance condition will be as set out in the policy report, the performance period being July 2014 to June 2017 inclusive.
The awards will vest in the normal course, subject to continued employment until the third anniversary of the grant date and to the extent that performance conditions have been met, in October 2019, following a two year deferral at the end of the performance period.
As in the past two years, Will Adderley has waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Sharesave An invitation will be issued in October 2014 to all eligible employees, to receive sharesave options at a 20% discount to the closing market price of Dunelm Group shares on the dealing day preceding the issue of the invitation.
The maximum monthly savings will be raised to 500 per month from 250 per month in line with the statutory increase.
Executive Directors are eligible to apply for Sharesave options.
Non-Executive Director fees for 2014 15 Fees to be paid to Non-Executive Directors are as set out in the table below: Table 16 Non-Executive Director Fees Increase Committee year Director Position Base Fee Fee on year Comment Geoff Cooper Chairman 122,400 Nil 2.00% Marion Sears Nominations Committee chair 40,800 6,100 -6.10% Committee chair fees reduce from 12 September 2014 Matt Davies Remuneration Committee chair 40,800 5,100 2.00% Simon Emeny Senior Independent Director 40,800 4,100 12.13% SID fee from 12 September 2014 Liz Doherty Audit and Risk Committee chair 40,800 4,100 12.13% Committee chair fee from 12 September 2014 Andy Harrison Non-Executive Director 34,000 Nil n a Base fee 40,800: pro-rated from appointment on 1 September Fee increases with effect from 1 July 2014 are in line with the Group-wide award of 2%.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 12 November 2013, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights excluding treasury shares was 202,781,698.
The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report and to approve the new Executive Share Option Plan received the following votes from shareholders: Table 17 Voting on remuneration related resolutions at the 2013 AGM % voting % of votes % of votes Votes rights Resolution Votes for cast Votes against cast withheld withheld Approve Remuneration Report 186,874,938 99.7 480,666 0.3 5,246 0 Approve Executive Share Option Plan 183,396,479 99.2 1,404,481 0.8 2,558,990 1.4 Change Of Responsibilities As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, I will be retiring as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 12 September 2014.
Matt Davies will take my place as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Approved by the Board of Dunelm Group plc on 11 September 2014 and signed on its behalf by Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 September 2014 68 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
