Governance Directors remuneration report ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Charles Gurassa Chair of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Performance of the Group in the 2014 financial year Key pay outcomes in respect of the 2014 financial year easyJet has continued to deliver sustainable returns The basic salary of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial and growth for its shareholders.
The key highlights are Officer will increase by 2.5%, which is in line with the typical as follows: rate of increase being awarded across the Group.
This will result in the Chief Executives salary increasing from profit before tax up by 21.5% to 581 million: 681,600 to 698,600, and the Chief Financial Officers salary increasing from 420,250 to 430,800.
Both 3.1 percentage point growth in return on capital employed ROCE including lease adjustments from increases will be effective from 1 January 2015.
ROCE excluding lease Annual bonuses are based on profit before tax and key adjustments increased from 23.0% to 28.6% in the year: operational and financial targets.
Bonuses of 76% of the maximum were awarded to the Chief Executive and the on-time performance of 85% for arrivals within 15 Chief Financial Officer in respect of the 2014 financial year.
minutes: and This reflects the strong financial and operational results increased ordinary dividend with a proposed ordinary the Group has achieved.
dividend of 45.4 pence per share.
In addition to the portion of the bonus subject to Aligning remuneration policy with Company principles compulsory deferral, Carolyn McCall has chosen to defer Simple and cost-effective approach In line with our the maximum 50% of her bonus into shares for three years low-cost and efficient business model, the Committee under the Matching Share Award element of the Long has chosen to set a simple pay package against the Term Incentive Plan LTIP, and Chris Kennedy has chosen market.
For example, our Executive Directors receive to defer 22% of his bonus.
Under the LTIP, Performance Share Awards made in Support the stated business strategy of growth and January 2012 are due to vest in January 2015.
These returns Performance is assessed against a range of awards are based on average ROCE performance financial, operational and longer-term targets ensuring excluding lease adjustments for the three financial value is delivered to shareholders, and participants are years ended 30 September 2014.
The Group achieved rewarded for the successful delivery of the key strategic average ROCE performance excluding operating lease objectives of the Company.
adjustments of 22%, reflecting exceptional performance over the period, resulting in 100% of the awards Pay for performance Remuneration is heavily weighted being earned, subject to continued employment towards variable pay, dependent on performance.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the amount paid to our Remuneration policy for the 2015 financial year Executive Directors.
As a result of the forthcoming expiry of the LTIP in September 2015, the Committee has undertaken a review of remuneration.
The key conclusion was that the Companys remuneration policy should continue to be www.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued aligned with easyJets principles, as noted above.
The Committee also considered recent developments in WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
institutional investors best practice expectations and, This report sets out easyJets remuneration policy in particular, the general consensus that has emerged for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes that remuneration structures should be simplified as far the implementation of that policy and discloses the as practicable.
As a result, under a revised LTIP that is amounts earned relating to the year ended 30 expected to operate from the 2016 financial year, it is the September 2014.
Committees intention to no longer grant Matching Share Awards which will result in a simplification of the overall The report complies with the provisions of the remuneration policy.
In addition, the Committee will be Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large introducing a holding period for shares vesting under the and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts LTIP, during which Executive Directors will be required to and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The retain the after-tax value of shares for 24 months from report has been prepared in line with the the vesting date.
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
To ensure that easyJet remains competitive in the market for executive talent, at the same time as adhering to the The Directors remuneration policy set out on pages principle of operating in a cost effective manner, there are 72 to 80 will be put to shareholders for approval in a to be changes to the Chief Financial Officers maximum binding vote at the forthcoming AGM.
This is in response to the Chief Financial date of the updated policy is 12 February 2015, which is Officers remuneration falling well below comparable the date shareholder approval is being sought for the market benchmarks in total pay and follows extensive revised policy.
dialogue with the Companys major shareholders and the The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the leading shareholder advisory bodies on this issue.
This Remuneration Committee set out on pages 71 to 72 change to his remuneration arrangements will ensure that and the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on his remuneration package will be more market competitive, pages 80 to 88 will be subject to an advisory vote at subject to delivering the Boards performance objectives, the AGM.
and the approach to increasing quantum remains consistent with the overall philosophy of operating with below-market fixed levels of pay.
The revised annual bonus opportunity will continue to be earned against rigorous OUR REMUNERATION POLICY annual performance targets.
To further strengthen the What is the role of our Remuneration Committee?
alignment between the Chief Executive and shareholders, The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for the Chief Executive will, in future, be required to build and determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and retain shares equal in value to 200% of salary up from the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee also reviews 175% of salary.
the remuneration of the Groups most senior executives No other changes are being proposed to the policy for in consultation with the Chief Executive.
The Committee which shareholder approval was received at the 2014 takes into account the need to recruit and retain Annual General Meeting AGM.
To implement the above executives and ensure that they are properly motivated changes the Company is seeking shareholder approval to perform in the interests of the Company and its for a revised remuneration policy which is set out on pages shareholders, while paying no more than is necessary.
Details of how the policy will be applied in What does the Committee consider when practice for the 2015 financial year are set out in the Annual setting remuneration?
Report on Remuneration on pages 80 to 88.
A summary When setting the policy for Executive Directors of the principal terms of the revised LTIP, for which remuneration, the Committee takes into account total shareholder approval is being sought at the 2015 AGM, remuneration levels operating in companies of a similar size will be set out in the Notice of Meeting.
and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual role, Shareholder feedback individual performance and an individuals experience.
Our easyJet is committed to maintaining an open and overall policy, having had due regard to the factors noted, transparent dialogue with shareholders.
The objective is to weight remuneration towards variable pay.
This is of this report is to communicate clearly how much the typically achieved through setting base pay at market Executive Directors are earning and how this is strongly median levels, offering very modest pension and benefits, linked to performance.
As always, I welcome any and above-market variable pay opportunities linked to the comments you may have.
achievement of very demanding performance targets.
In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Group.
Salary increases will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
The Committee does not formally consult Charles Gurassa directly with employees on executive pay but does receive Chair of the Remuneration Committee periodic updates from the Group People Director.
17 November 2014 72 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance The Committee also considers developments in institutional for completeness, subject to the new LTIP being investors best practice expectations and the views approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, the intention expressed by shareholders during any dialogue.
is to set ongoing annual award policy at 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the Chief How do we take into account the views of shareholders Financial Officer.
The revised award level for the Chief when we determine the remuneration policy?
Executive has been set so as to retain a similar expected easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and value to the current remuneration policy, with the takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
We consult Matching Share Award included at 50% of the 100% extensively with our major shareholders when setting our of salary maximum level i. e. assuming that, on average, remuneration policy.
If any of these shareholders were to half the maximum Matching Share Award would be be opposed to our policy, we would endeavour to meet granted each year.
The revised award level for the with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to Chief Financial Officer incorporates the maximum any issues they may have.
Matching Share Award, at 50% of salary, in order to position his remuneration closer to comparable roles What changes are we proposing to make to the in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Awards remuneration policy approved by shareholders at under the new LTIP will be granted for the first time, the 2014 AGM and why?
subject to shareholder approval of the new plan and As a result of the upcoming expiry of the Companys LTIP revised remuneration policy at the 2015 AGM, following in September 2015, the Committee undertook a review the results announcement for the year ending 30 of the existing remuneration policy against the Companys September 2015 i. e. in the 2016 financial year : and principles and in light of developments in the executive pay environment.
Since the Companys overall policy is in addition, the Committee will be introducing a considered to be aligned with easyJets principles, and is holding period for shares vesting under the new LTIP, considered to be serving the Company well, the primary during which Executive Directors will be required to retain change proposed relates to simplifying the LTIP structure the after-tax value of shares for 24 months from the in light of general encouragement in this regard from vesting date.
institutional shareholders and the leading shareholder advisory bodies.
In summary, the proposed changes to To address the below market total remuneration positioning of the Chief Financial Officer, his annual bonus policy include: opportunity is to increase to 175% of salary from 150%.
simplification of the current long-term incentive arrangements, with a lower maximum total annual The change to the Chief Financial Officers bonus award potential for the Chief Executive, when compared opportunity takes effect from 1 October 2014 subject against the current long-term incentive structure, to to the policy that follows being approved by shareholders apply from the financial year commencing on 1 October at the 2015 AGM, and takes account of the fact that 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval at the February the Chief Financial Officer has fallen well behind 2015 AGM, for the simplified LTIP, only Performance Share appropriate comparative benchmarks from a total Awards will be granted in respect of the 2016 financial remuneration perspective.
year onwards, as opposed to Performance Share Awards This approach ensures that his revised remuneration in tandem with Matching Share Awards, as per the policy structure remains aligned with easyJets remuneration shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM: philosophy of operating a relatively lean approach to the 2015 financial year will see the final operation of the fixed pay levels versus comparative market benchmarks, current LTIP i. e. with Performance Share Awards and with the opportunity to earn above-market levels of total Matching Share Awards granted at the same time since remuneration subject to successful execution of the this was the policy communicated to both shareholders Boards strategy.
and executives at the start of the financial year, and so In setting the 2015 financial year annual bonus targets, bonuses earned in respect of the 2014 financial year will the higher quantum for the Chief Financial Officer was be eligible for a Matching Share Award for the final time, considered by the Committee.
A higher year-on-year profit in line with our existing policy: growth target has been set for the 2015 financial year from the 2016 financial year, the maximum normal annual and is considered appropriately challenging for the new award limit of Performance Shares will be restricted to bonus arrangement.
250% of salary, which is lower than the combined award A higher share ownership guideline will be introduced potential for the Chief Executive under the current plan for the Chief Executive at 200% of salary from 175% of 300% of salary 200% of salary in Performance of salary.
A 175% of salary share ownership guideline Shares plus 100% of salary in Matching Shares : will continue to operate for the Chief Financial Officer.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued How is remuneration structured?
The table below sets out the main components of easyJets remuneration policy: Framework used to assess Element, purpose and link performance and provisions to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes effective The Committee considers from 1 January.
individual salaries at the To provide the core appropriate Committee reward for the role.
Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies meeting each year after of a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual having due regard to the Sufficient level to recruit role, progression within the role, individual performance and an factors noted in operating and retain individuals of individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having had due regard to the the salary policy.
the necessary calibre to factors noted, is normally to target salaries at the market median level.
execute the Companys No recovery provisions business strategy.
Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be in apply to salary.
percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Salary levels for current incumbents, effective from 1 January 2015 are as follows: Chief Executive: 698,600.
Benefits Executive Directors receive modest personal accident and life Not applicable.
assurance cover 0.5 x salary, at the same levels as the wider In line with the No recovery provisions workforce.
The cost to the Company of providing these benefits Companys policy to apply to benefits.
may vary from year to year depending on the level of the keep remuneration associated premium.
Executive Directors receive no other conventional executive company benefits.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Company purchasing power may provide an advantage to employees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as opposed to providing the benefits detailed above.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business are reimbursed so that Executive Directors are not worse-off on a net of tax basis for fulfilling Company duties.
Pension Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer Not applicable.
contributions as those offered to eligible employees in the wider To provide employees No recovery provisions workforce, of 7% of basic salary.
A cash alternative may be considered.
with long-term savings apply to employer via modest pension While individuals are not obliged to make contributions, easyJet pension contributions.
provisions in line with operates a pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby individuals the Companys strategy can exchange part of their salary for Company paid pension to keep remuneration contributions.
Where individuals exchange salary this reduces simple and consistent.
easyJet credits half of this reduction currently 6.9% of the salary exchanged to the individuals pension plan.
74 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Element, purpose and link Framework used to assess performance to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable and provisions for the recovery of sums paid Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary Bonuses are based on stretching financial, for Chief Executive and 175% of salary operational and, in some cases, personal To incentivise and for other Executive Directors.
departmental performance measures as set recognise execution and assessed by the Committee in its discretion.
of the business strategy One-third of the bonus earned is subject Financial measures e. g. profit before tax will on an annual basis.
to compulsory deferral into shares or represent the majority of bonus, with other equivalent in a Deferred Annual Bonus measures representing the balance.
A graduated Rewards the achievement Plan DABP, typically for a period of three scale of targets is set for each measure, with of annual financial and years, and is normally subject to continued 10% of each element being payable for achieving operational goals.
Executive Directors can the relevant threshold hurdle.
choose to voluntarily defer a further portion Compulsory and of their bonus into shares for three years Safety underpins all of the operational activities of voluntary deferral which may be eligible for a Matching Share the Group and the bonus plan includes an underpin provides alignment Award under the LTIP see below.
that enables the Remuneration Committee to scale with shareholders.
The remainder of the bonus is paid in back the bonus earned in the event that there is a cash.
Matching Share Awards will operate safety event which it considers warrants the use for the final time in the year ending of such discretion.
The cash and deferred elements of bonuses are Dividend equivalent payments may be subject to provisions which enable the Committee made in cash or shares under the DABP, at to recover the cash paid clawback or to lapse the time of vesting and may assume the the associated deferred shares malus in the event reinvestment of dividends.
of a misstatement of results for the financial year to which the bonus relates, or an error in determining All bonus payments are at the discretion of the cash bonus or the number of shares comprising the Committee, as shown following a deferred share award, within three years of the this table.
payment of the cash bonus.
LTIP Matching Share Each year, the Executive Directors can Matching Share Awards vest based on three year voluntarily defer a portion of their bonus performance against a challenging range of financial Award operating for the final time in the financial which is invested after tax into shares targets and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR for three years.
The maximum voluntary performance set and assessed by the Committee year commencing 1 October 2014 deferral is restricted to: in its discretion.
Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% of a Matching Chief Executive: half of bonus: and To incentivise and Share Award.
recognise execution Other Executive Directors: one-third of the business strategy In order for the TSR portion of the award to be of bonus.
earned, the Companys absolute TSR performance must also be positive over the performance period.
The maximum voluntary investment is Rewards strong financial therefore limited to 100% of salary in performance and 25% of each element vests for achieving the the case of the Chief Executive and sustained increase threshold performance target with 100% of the 50% of salary in the case of other in shareholder value.
awards being earned for maximum performance.
There is straight-line vesting between these points.
The amount deferred may be eligible The Matching Share Awards include provisions for a 1:1 match, based on the number which enable the Committee to recover value of pre-tax shares deferred.
Vesting of in the event of a misstatement of results for the Matching Shares is dependent on the financial year to which the vesting of a Matching achievement of performance targets.
Share Award related, or an error in calculation when Awards normally vest over a three determining the vesting result within three years year period.
of the vesting i. e. clawback provisions apply.
The mechanism through which the clawback can be A dividend equivalent provision exists which implemented enables the Committee to: i reduce allows the Committee to pay dividends on the cash bonus earned in a subsequent year and or vested shares in cash or shares at the time reduce the outstanding LTIP share awards i. e. malus of vesting and may assume the provisions may be used to effect a clawback, reinvestment of dividends.
or ii for the Committee to require that a net of tax balancing cash payment be made.
com 75 Directors remuneration report continued Framework used to assess performance Element, purpose and provisions for the and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable recovery of sums paid LTIP Performance Each year Performance Shares may be granted subject to the achievement The performance Share Award of performance targets.
Awards normally vest over a three year period.
targets are as described on Awards will be delivered Policy for the financial year ending 30 September 2015 page 75 for under the 2005 LTIP the Matching The maximum opportunity contained within the plan rules for Performance in the year ending Share Award.
Share Awards is 200% of salary.
30 September 2015 and under a replacement The recovery The maximum face value of annual awards will be 200% of salary for LTIP for the year ending clawback the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.
30 September 2016. and withholding Policy for the financial year ending 30 September 2016 malus provisions To incentivise and are as described The maximum opportunity contained within the plan rules for Performance recognise execution on page 75 Share Awards is 250% of salary with awards up to 300% of salary eligible of the business strategy in relation to be made in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
to Matching The normal maximum face value of annual awards will be 250% of salary Share Awards.
Rewards strong financial for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors.
performance and sustained increase For clarity, there will be no matching share awards for the financial year in shareholder value.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee to pay dividends on vested shares in cash or shares at the time of vesting and may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
A holding period will apply to share awards granted in the financial year ending 30 September 2015 and beyond.
The holding period will require the Executive Directors to retain the after-tax value of shares for 24 months from the vesting date.
Share ownership 175% of salary rising to 200% from financial year ending 30 September Not applicable.
2016 holding required for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the To ensure alignment Chief Financial Officer which is expected to be reached within five years between the interests of appointment.
of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
the annual review of performance measures and What discretion is retained by the Committee in operating its incentive plans?
weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee LTIP and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan according to their retains discretion over: respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee the participants: retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a the timing of grant of a payment: number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the determination of the bonus payment: the following in relation to the LTIP and Deferred Annual dealing with a change of control: Bonus Plan: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the participants: the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment the timing of grant of an award: chosen: and the size of an award: the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan the determination of vesting: from year to year.
discretion required when dealing with a change of In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus control or restructuring of the Group: plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the determination of the treatment of leavers based on the targets and or set different measures if events occur rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate e. g. material acquisition and or adjustments required in certain circumstances divestment of a Group business, and the amendment is e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events required so that the conditions achieve their original and special dividends : and purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
76 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, The policy set out above applies to awards granted from be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and the 2013 financial year onwards.
Awards granted under may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the previous policy are subject to different performance the Companys major shareholders.
measures typically Return on Equity ROE or ROCE as the sole performance measure, have different award levels The use of discretion in relation to the Companys and may be earned in line with the terms of their grant in Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted due course.
Details of all the outstanding share awards under HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
granted to existing Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors are set out on page 84 of the Annual Report How does the executive pay policy differ from that on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based for other easyJet employees?
on their original award terms.
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other How did we choose performance metrics and how employees, to make a greater part of their pay conditional do we set performance targets?
on the successful delivery of business strategy.
This The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan aims to create a clear link between the value created and LTIP have been selected to reflect the Groups key for shareholders and the remuneration received by the performance indicators.
However, in line with the Companys Profit before tax is used to assess annual performance policy to keep remuneration simple and consistent, the as this reflects how successful we have been in managing benefit and pension arrangements for the current our operations effectively e. g. in maximising profit per Executive Directors are on the same terms as those seat whilst maintaining a high load factor.
The balance offered to eligible employees in the wider workforce.
is determined based on how well we perform against other specific key performance indicators set annually How much could the Executive Directors earn under the remuneration policy?
e. g. on-time performance and customer satisfaction to ensure that Executive Directors are motivated to deliver A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, particularly at maximum performance across a scorecard of objectives.
The charts on page 78 show how much the Since safety is of central importance to the business, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer could earn award of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables under easyJets remuneration policy as detailed above the Remuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned under different performance scenarios based on their in the event that there is a safety event that it considers salaries as at 1 October 2014.
The following assumptions warrants the use of such discretion.
have been made: LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay ROCE which, since December 2012, has included operating only with no vesting under any of easyJets incentive plans.
lease adjustments and relative TSR targets.
These seek to In line with expectations Fixed pay plus a bonus at assess the underlying financial performance of the business the mid-point of the range giving 50% of the maximum while maintaining clear alignment between shareholders opportunity and assuming half of the maximum voluntary and Executive Directors.
Targets are set based on a sliding deferral and vesting of one-third of the maximum under scale that takes account of relevant commercial factors.
the Performance and Matching Share elements of the LTIP.
Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum awards requiring Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum substantial outperformance of challenging plans.
Fixed pay plus maximum bonus with maximum voluntary deferral and maximum vesting under the Performance No performance targets are set for Sharesave and and Matching Shares elements of the LTIP.
Share Incentive Plan awards since these form part of all-employee arrangements that are purposefully designed Fixed pay comprises: to encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in the Company.
salaries salary effective as at 1 October 2014: Have LTIP Awards always been granted subject to benefits amount received by each Executive Director in the 2014 financial year: the same performance targets?
The LTIP, under which the Performance and Matching pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent Share Awards are granted, was approved by shareholders payments received by each Executive Director in the in 2008.
Further details on how the awards are structured 2014 financial year: and and operated are set out in the plan rules which are available, on request, from the Company.
Free and Matching Shares under the all-employee share incentive plan.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued The scenarios do not include any share price growth What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are required to give 12 months notice of termination of employment.
Chief Executive For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, Below 100% 734,000 threshold the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, In line with 37% 34% 29% 1,984,000 benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period expectations during which time the Company may require the individual Exceeds 18% 33% 49% 4,142,000 to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign target a period of garden leave.
Chief Financial officer The policy for a new hire would be based on similar terms and will also include the ability for easyJet to make Below 456,000 100% threshold a payment in lieu of notice of up to 12 monthly instalments In line with which would be reduced if alternative employment was 43% 34% 23% 1,074,000 expectations taken up.
Exceeds 23% 36% 41% 2,032,000 Under the current Chief Executives contract, the Company, target by mutual consent, may elect to make a payment in lieu Fixed pay of notice equivalent in value to 12 months basic salary, Annual Bonus payable in monthly instalments which would be subject to LTIP Performance and Matching Shares mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during this time.
Alternatively, this payment may be paid as a lump It should be noted that since the analysis above shows sum.
Bonus payments may be made, payable in cash, on what could be earned by the Executive Directors based a pro-rata basis, but only for the period of time served from on the 2015 financial year remuneration policy described the start of the financial year to the date of termination above ignoring the potential impact of share price and not for any period in lieu of notice.
Any bonus paid growth, the numbers will be different to the values would be subject to the normal bonus targets, tested at included in the table on page 82 detailing what was the end of the financial year.
The current Chief Executive actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation to has a contractual entitlement to such a pro-rated payment the financial year ended 30 September 2014, since these under her service contract, other than in the cases of values are based on the actual levels of performance resignation or termination resulting from gross misconduct.
achieved to 30 September 2014 and include the impact These provisions do not apply to the Chief Financial Officer.
of share price growth in relation to share awards.
In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee For completeness, the chart below illustrates the revised may make any statutory entitlements or payments to settle policy that will operate in the financial year ending or compromise claims in connection with a termination 30 September 2016 based on salaries as at 1 October 2014. of any existing or future Executive Director as necessary.
The Committee also retains the discretion to reimburse reasonable legal expenses incurred in relation to a Chief Executive termination of employment and to meet any outplacement Below 100% 734,000 costs if deemed necessary.
threshold The Executive Directors service contracts and the NonIn line with 37% 34% 29% 1,984,000 expectations Executive Directors letters of appointment are available Exceeds for inspection by shareholders at the Companys 19% 36% 45% 3,801,000 target registered office.
What is our policy when an Executive Director Chief Financial officer leaves or there is a takeover?
Below 456,000 100% The rules of both schemes LTIP and Deferred Annual threshold Bonus Plan set out what happens to awards if a In line with 41% 33% 26% 1,104,000 participant ceases to be an employee or Director of expectations easyJet before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, 2,032,000 Exceeds 23% 36% 41% target any outstanding share awards will lapse on such cessation, except in certain circumstances.
Fixed pay Annual Bonus If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or LTIP Performance and Matching Shares Director of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of the business or company that employs the individual, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver 78 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance under the plan rules.
Under the Deferred Annual Bonus Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, Plan, the shares for a good leaver will normally vest in full flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of on the normal vesting date or on cessation of employment those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it in the case of death and if the award is in the form of may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to an option, there is a 12 month window in which the award the unique circumstances of such an appointment.
Awards structured as options which have The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on vested prior to cessation can be exercised within 12 months an ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be of cessation of office or employment.
in accordance with the approved policy detailed above i. e. Under the LTIP, a good leavers unvested awards will vest at an aggregate maximum of up to 500% of salary in the either on the normal vesting date or the relevant date financial year ending 30 September 2015 200% annual of cessation, as determined by the Committee subject bonus, 200% Performance Shares and 100% Matching to achievement of any relevant performance conditions, Shares under the LTIP and 450% of salary in the financial with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the year ending 30 September 2016 onwards 200% annual vesting period served.
The Committee has the discretion bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP, taking to disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate into account annual and long-term variable pay.
A good leaver may exercise their vested awards does not include the value of any buyout arrangements.
structured as options for a period of 12 months following Different performance measures may be set initially for the individuals cessation of office or employment, whereas the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities unvested awards may be exercised within 12 months of the individual, and the point in the financial year that of vesting.
Any incentive offered above this limit would be In determining whether an Executive Director should be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval treated as a good leaver, and the extent to which their for an amendment to its approved policy at its next award may vest, the Committee will take into account the General Meeting.
circumstances of an individuals departure.
In the event of The above policy applies to both an internal promotion a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc which is not to the Board or an external hire.
part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group in circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy not granted all awards will vest subject to, in the case of out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would LTIP awards, the achievement of any relevant performance be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this conditions with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the would be provided for taking into account the form proportion of the vesting period served.
The Committee cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood has discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it considers of meeting any existing performance criteria of the it appropriate to do so.
In the event of a takeover, the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, Committee may determine, with the agreement of the if used, will be granted using easyJets share plans to the acquiring company, that awards will be exchanged for extent possible, although awards may also be granted equivalent awards in another company.
outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
What is the policy on Executive Directors holding external appointments?
In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding Executive Directors are permitted to accept one variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role appointment on an external board or committee so long will be paid according to its terms of grant adjusted as as this is not thought to interfere with the business of the relevant to take into account the Board appointment.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive are retained directly by the relevant Executive Director.
Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience What would the remuneration policy be if a new and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share Director was appointed?
arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, Base salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJets these will not include share options or other  policy, taking into account the experience related elements.
and calibre of the individual e. g. typically up to market median levels but salaries above or below this level may be set dependent upon the level of the individual.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to achieve the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, with relocation expenses arrangements provided if necessary.
easyJet may offer a cash amount on recruitment, payment of which may be staggered, to reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may have received from a former employer.
com 79 Directors remuneration report continued How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
What are the terms of appointment of the The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors?
Directors receive an annual fee paid in monthly The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive instalments.
The fee for the Chairman is set by the Directors terms of appointment are recorded in letters Remuneration Committee and the fees for the Deputy of appointment, which are usually renewed every three Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are approved by years.
The required notice from the Company is three the Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman and months in all cases.
The Non-Executive Directors are not Chief Executive.
entitled to any compensation on loss of office.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable Fees To attract and retain a highThe Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
calibre Chairman, Deputy The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with Chairman and Non-Executive supplementary fees payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
Directors by offering marketThe Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of competitive fee levels.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased, taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business will be reimbursed so that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax basis, for fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
Fee levels for current incumbents for the 2015 financial year are as follows: Non-Executive Chairman: 300,000: Non-Executive Director base fee: 60,000: supplementary fee for Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director SID role: 25,000: and supplementary fee for Chair of the Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees: 15,000, and Finance Committee Chair: 10,000.
The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON Street NBS, a trading name of Aon plc.
NBS was REMUNERATION appointed by the Company in 2004.
NBS advises the Who is on our Remuneration Committee?
Committee on developments in executive pay and on the As at 30 September 2014, the members of the Committee operation of easyJets incentive plans.
Total fees paid to were: Charles Gurassa Chair, Franois Rubichon, John NBS in respect of services to the Committee during the Browett, David Bennett and Professor Rigas Doganis.
NBS is a signatory Andy Martin stepped down from the Committee on 1 July to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
David Bennett stepped down from the Committee Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place on 1 October 2014 and Professor Rigas Doganis will be at NBS and is satisfied that the advice it receives is stepping down from the Committee on 1 December 2014 independent and objective.
following their retirement from the Board.
John Browett How will the remuneration policy be applied for the and Franois Rubichon joined the Committee on 1 July 2014 2015 financial year?
The responsibilities of the What are the Executive Directors current salaries?
Committee are set out in the Corporate Governance The current and proposed salaries of the Executive section of the Annual Report on page 59.
Directors are: The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation and 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 assists the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate.
salary salary Change The Committee also receives assistance from the Group CE 698,600 681,600 2.5% People Director and the Group Head of Reward.
The Group CFO 430,800 420,250 2.5% Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No Executive Directors are involved in deciding their The increase awarded to the Executive Directors is own remuneration.
consistent with the typical rate of increase being awarded across the Group.
80 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance up to 50% of the annual bonus earned and the Chief What bonus will be awarded in respect of performance in the 2015 financial year?
Financial Officer up to two-thirds of the bonus earned.
The Chief Executive deferred the maximum amount of her 2014 The annual bonus for the 2015 financial year will operate on the same basis as for the 2014 financial year and will financial year bonus and the Chief Financial Officer deferred two-thirds of the maximum amount.
Both amounts will be be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report in terms of deferral and eligible for Matching Share Awards.
The maximum bonus opportunity The 2015 financial year LTIP awards Performance and remains at 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and Matching Share Awards will be subject to the following increases from 150% to 175% for the Chief Financial Officer.
performance conditions: The measures have been selected to reflect a range of Below Threshold On-target Maximum financial and operational goals that support the key threshold 25% 40% 100% strategic objectives of the Company.
0% vesting vesting vesting vesting The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: ROCE 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0% As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Measure CE CFO Threshold Maximum Profit before tax 70% 60% Below threshold 25% 100% 0% vesting vesting vesting On-time performance 10% 10% TSR upper Customer satisfaction targets 10% 10% 50% of total award median median quartile Operating costs excluding fuel per seat at constant currency 10% 10% Awards vest on a straight-line basis between these Departmental objectives 10% points.
As with the awards granted in the 2014 financial year, ROCE targets are based on average ROCE The proposed target levels for the 2015 financial year have including operating lease adjustments over a three year been set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
performance period, commencing on 1 October 2014.
TSR targets are based on relative TSR compared to companies In setting the targets, the Committee was mindful that the ranked FTSE 31-130 at the date of grant, where the average maximum opportunity has been increased for the Chief share price is calculated over three months at the start and Financial Officer.
A higher year-on-year profit growth target end of the period.
In addition, in order for the TSR-based has been set for the 2015 financial year and is considered awards to vest, easyJet must have achieved positive appropriately challenging for the new bonus arrangement.
absolute TSR performance over the performance period.
The targets relating to on-time performance, cost per seat and customer satisfaction are also considered demanding.
These targets will require management to deliver strong, Therefore, overall, the Committee is comfortable that the sustainable performance over the period.
The Committee bonus targets for both Executive Directors are appropriately considers the range of ROCE targets set to be demanding, demanding in light of their respective bonus opportunities.
given that the level of return required to be created for vesting to take place will be calculated from a materially higher capital The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2015 financial base reflecting the growth in the Companys fleet numbers year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, during the period through to 30 September 2017. retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years remuneration As detailed in the policy report, Matching Share Awards will no report to the extent that they do not remain commercially longer operate with effect from the financial year commencing sensitive at that time.
The safety of our customers and on 1 October 2015 with the revised award levels detailed in the people underpins all of the operational activities of the policy report applying at the time of grant.
Similarly challenging Group and the bonus plan includes an underpin that performance targets to those described above will apply to enables the Remuneration Committee to scale back the awards granted under the revised policy with any substantial bonus earned in the event that there is a safety event that change the subject of appropriate dialogue with the occurs that it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
How will the LTIP be operated in relation to the 2015 How will the Non-Executive Directors be paid in the financial year awards?
The award levels of Performance Shares for the Executive The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Directors in the 2015 financial year are as per the policy will be as follows: approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM at 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Chairman 300,000 Chief Financial Officer.
Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 60,000 The annual bonus plan operated in 2014 was the last 1 Fees for Deputy Chairman and SID role 25,000 opportunity for voluntary deferral of part of the bonus into Chair of the Audit, Safety and Remuneration shares for the purposes of receiving Matching Share Awards.
1 The Awards will operate for the final time in the financial year Committees 15,000 1 ending 30 September 2015.
Accordingly, where Executive Chair of the Finance Committee 10,000 Directors have elected to voluntarily defer more of their bonus 1 Supplementary fees.
into shares beyond the compulsory deferral element, Matching Share Awards will be granted.
The amount voluntarily deferred There are no changes to basic fees, which were last may be eligible for a 1:1 match dependent on the delivery of reviewed and increased on 1 October 2013. performance goals, with awards vesting over a three year period.
The Chief Executive could have voluntarily deferred www.
com 81 Directors remuneration report continued What did the Directors earn in relation to the 2014 financial year?
2 Appointed to the Board on 22 July 2014.
3 Benefits relate to the cost to the Company of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of free and matching shares during the year under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
4 One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred in shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
Carolyn McCall chose to defer the maximum 50% of her bonus and Chris Kennedy chose to defer 22%, being two-thirds of the maximum voluntary deferral of one-third of his bonus.
5 This relates to the 2012 LTIP awards which vest in January 2015 based on performance measured to 30 September 2014.
For the purposes of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2014 of 13.275.
This compares to 3.928 at grant.
6 Chris Kennedy received 1,348 in exchange for sacrificing salary into the pension scheme, in line with easyJets SMART pension arrangements.
Carolyn McCall has reached her lifetime pension limit and receives a cash alternative of 47,424 in lieu of pension contributions.
7 Retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
How was pay linked to performance in the 2014 financial year?
As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Performance required Actual Payout Measure CE CFO Threshold On-Target Maximum Profit before tax m 70% 60% 475 530 610 581 82% On-time performance 10% 10% 80% 84% 88% 85% 61% Customer satisfaction 1 targets 10% 10% 76% 81% 84% 78% 30% 2 Cost per seat ex.
fuel 10% 10% 39.26 39.04 38.76 38.41 100% Departmental 3 objectives 10% Successful Achieved Outstanding Exceeding 75% 1 Customer satisfaction this measures the percentage of our passengers that are Quite satisfied, Very satisfied or Completely satisfied at last contact.
We are considering measuring performance against Very satisfied and Completely satisfied in future years.
2 Cost excluding fuel per seat targets are at constant plan currency.
3 Actual reflects performance above on-target and below maximum.
82 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance customer satisfaction targets 78% of customers Annual bonus The following chart shows the performance against bonus satisfied with the service: targets for 2014: total cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency 0.6% increase: and Annual bonus Chief Financial Officers departmental objectives these % were exceeded.
76% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the 82 profit before tax Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September 2014.
61 On-time performance This resulted in a bonus payment of 1,033,790 to the 30 Chief Executive and 473,660 to the Chief Financial Customer satisfaction Officer.
One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred 100 Cost per seat ex fuel into shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
In addition, Executive Directors can voluntarily 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 defer a portion of their bonus which may be eligible for Matching Share Awards.
A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in start of the financial year.
10% of each element is payable light of the level of performance achieved.
for achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target performance and 100% for achieving maximum LTIP performance.
Achievements between these points are The awards made to Executive Directors in 2012 were calculated on a straight-line basis.
subject to average ROCE excluding lease adjustments performance over the three financial years ended 30 The safety of our customers and people underpins all of September 2014.
The percentage which could be earned the operational activities of the Group and the bonus plan was determined using the following vesting schedule: includes an underpin that enables the Committee to scale back the bonus earned in the event that there is a safety ROCE y e 30 Threshold Target Maximum event that occurs that it considers warrants the use of September 2014 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting such discretion.
No such event occurred in the 2014 Award 1 up to financial year.
100% of salary 8.0% 10.0% 12.0% Performance highlights during the year were: Award 2 over 100% of salary 11.5% 12.5% 13.0% profit before tax increased by 21.5% to 581 million and pre-tax profit margins grew by 1.6 percentage Three year average ROCE excluding lease adjustments points to 12.8%: to 30 September 2014 was 22.0%: correspondingly 100% on-time performance on-time performance of of awards of Performance Shares and Matching Shares are 85% of arrivals within 15 minutes: due to vest in January 2015, subject to continued service.
What LTIP awards were granted to Directors in the financial year?
Performance and Matching Share Awards were made in the financial year under the LTIP.
Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors are summarised below, with further details given in the table on outstanding share interests on page 86.
% vesting at 1 Number of Face value threshold 2 Award Type Shares % of salary Performance condition Performance period performance CE Performance 90,517 1,363,186 200% Nil cost 50% based on average 3 financial 3 option 4 Matching 38,283 576,542 85% ROCE and 50% years ending 25% 5 based on relative TSR 30 September CFO Performance 41,857 630,366 150% Nil cost versus FTSE 51-150 2016 3 option Matching 11,801 177,723 42% 1 Face value calculated based on the closing share price of 1,506 pence on 16 December 2013.
2 Performance conditions are set out on page 85.
3 Matching awards are granted over an equal number of shares as the Executive Directors voluntarily defer bonus pre-tax.
4 ROCE including operating lease adjustments 15% threshold to 20% maximum.
5 In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
com 83 Directors remuneration report continued Have there been any payments to past Directors?
Audited There have been no payments made to past Directors during the year.
What share awards do the Executive Directors have outstanding at the financial year end?
Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables Audited : Carolyn McCall OBE No.
of shares Shares Shares Shares No.
Notes A Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares B Long Term Incentive Plan Matching Shares C Share Incentive Plan Performance Free Shares D Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares E Save As You Earn Awards SAYE 84 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Note 1: The number of shares are calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior to grant.
As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share price following announcement of results.
Note 2: For LTIP awards made in July 2010, vesting was based on ROE performance in the financial year ended 30 September 2012, according to the following targets: Threshold Target Maximum 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Award 1 up to 100% of salary 9.0% 12.0% 15.0% Award 2 over 100% of salary 11.0% 13.0% 15.0% As disclosed in last years remuneration report, ROE in the year to 30 September 2012 was 14.6% compared to 5.5% in the year prior to grant.
Correspondingly 93.3% of award one and 90.0% of award two or 91.7% of the overall award vested in July 2013.
Note 3: For LTIP awards made in March 2011, vesting was based on ROCE excluding operating leases adjustment performance for the year to 30 September 2013.
Actual ROCE for the year was 23% and therefore 100% of the awards vested in March 2014.
Threshold Target Maximum 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Award 1 up to 100% of salary 7.0% 8.5% 12.0% Award 2 over 100% of salary 10.0% 12.0% 13.0% Note 4: For LTIP awards made in January 2012, vesting is based on three year average ROCE performance excluding lease adjustment for the three financial years ended 30 September 2014, which averaged 22.0%.
Correspondingly 100% of these awards will vest.
The following targets apply for these awards: Threshold Target Maximum 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Award 1 up to 100% of salary 8.0% 10.0% 12.0% Award 2 over 100% of salary 11.5% 12.5% 13.0% Note 5: For LTIP awards made in December 2012, 50% of vesting is based on three year average ROCE including operating lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2015 and 50% of vesting is based on relative total shareholder return performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 12.0% 12.0% 16.0% TSR awards 50% of total award median median upper quartile Note 6: For LTIP awards made in December 2013, 50% of vesting is based on three year average ROCE including operating lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 50% of vesting is based on relative total shareholder return performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.5% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award median median upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 7: Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased, up to the first 125 per month.
These matching shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
What are the shareholding guidelines for Directors?
The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of 200% of salary increased from 175% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer required to build a shareholding of 175% of salary, to be built up over five years from the adoption of the policy 27 September 2012 or their appointment, if later.
It is expected that this guideline will be achieved within five years of appointment.
Until the guideline is met, they are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP.
Other senior executives have a 100% of salary shareholding requirement.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees over a period of three years from the adoption of the policy or date of appointment, if later.
com 85 Directors remuneration report continued What are the Directors current shareholdings and interests in shares?
The following table provides details on the Directors shareholdings and interests in shares as at 30 September 2014 Audited : Unconditionally Shareholding Interests in shares owned guidelines 2 3 4 5 6 shares achieved DABP SAYE LTIP SIP Total John Barton 24,000 100% Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% Carolyn McCall OBE 231,131 100% 25,522 947 1,185,676 1,631 1,213,776 Chris Kennedy 110,364 100% 11,801 947 596,981 1,631 611,360 Adle Anderson 5,114 86% David Bennett 9,166 100% 1 Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 3,771 98% John Browett 5,412 100% Professor Rigas Doganis 12,467 100% Keith Hamill OBE 4,560 100% Andy Martin 7,000 100% 1 Franois Rubichon nil 0% 1 Appointed to the Board on 22 July 2014.
2 Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance Free Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares, LTIP Investment Shares, and any shares owned by connected persons.
3 Unconditionally owned shares and share interests under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan count towards achievement of the shareholding guidelines.
4 The principal terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan are described on page 75.
5 LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil cost options subject to performance.
6 Consists of unvested SIP Performance Free Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares.
Note: The unconditionally owned shares of Carolyn McCall and Chris Kennedy have increased by 86 shares each since 30 September 2014 to 231,217 shares and 110,450 shares respectively, due to: the purchase in October and November 2014 of 21 SIP Partnership Shares: and the vesting of 65 SIP Matching Shares awarded in October and November 2011.
The interests in SIP shares of Carolyn McCall and Chris Kennedy have decreased by 48 shares each since 30 September 2014 to 1,583 shares each, due to: the vesting of 65 SIP Matching Shares awarded in October and November 2011: and the award of 17 SIP Matching Shares in October and November 2014.
Any changes subsequent to the date of this report may be found on our corporate website, http corporate.
com Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the when or if exercised, will continue to be settled by the issue unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive of new shares.
The Companys current position against its Plan and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust.
At 30 dilution limit is therefore under the maximum 10% limit.
September 2014, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were The Company continuously reviews its position against the as follows: IMA dilution guidelines and, should there be insufficient Number headroom within which to grant new awards which could be satisfied by issuing new shares, it is the intention of the easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust 2,514,157 Company to continue its current practice of satisfying such easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust 254,240 awards with shares purchased on the market.
This would Total 2,768,397 include, in relation to the IMAs guideline, 5% in 10 year dilution limit which relates to discretionary share plans.
Position against dilution limits easyJet complies with the IMA Principles of Remuneration.
Employee share plan participation These principles require that commitments under all of the easyJet encourages share ownership throughout the Group Companys share ownership schemes must not exceed by the use of Performance Free Shares and Matching 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling ten-year Shares within a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You period.
The requirement for shares under all current share Earn scheme.
All staff subject to minimum service were incentive schemes LTIP, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, Save granted shares during the year.
Executive Directors may As you Earn and Share Incentive Plan will be satisfied with also participate in these plans on the same terms as other share purchases on the market.
The remaining 0.4 million eligible staff.
They are summarised in the Corporate options under the Discretionary Share Option Schemes, Responsibility report on page 41.
86 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2014 for Directors are as follows: Date of current service contract Unexpired term at or letter of appointment 30 September 2014 John Barton 3 October 2013 1 year 7 months Charles Gurassa 3 October 2013 2 years Carolyn McCall OBE 1 July 2010 Chris Kennedy 1 July 2010 Adle Anderson 3 October 2013 2 years David Bennett 26 September 2013 Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 19 June 2014 2 years 9 months John Browett 26 September 2013 1 year 11 months Professor Rigas Doganis 26 September 2013 2 months Keith Hamill OBE 3 October 2013 5 months Andy Martin 3 October 2013 2 years Franois Rubichon 19 June 2014 2 years 9 months Review of past performance The chart below sets out the total shareholder return performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 1 and a group of European airlines.
The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
Total shareholder return Value 600 500 400 300 200 100 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 1 easyJet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2014, of 100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, FTSE 250 Index or a comparator group of airlines.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i. e. ignoring exchange rate movements since 30 September 2008.
1 British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European airlines group.
British Airways and Iberia have been tracked forward for 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 as IAG.
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same six-year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
These also include the vesting of LTIP matching shares, granted in 2012, reflecting the first opportunity in which the current Executive Directors could invest their bonus.
3 Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, of 178,000 and for the former Chief Executive of 2,563,000. www.
com 87 Directors remuneration report continued How does the change in Chief Executive pay for What have Executive Directors earned for holding the year compare to that for easyJet employees?
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year Carolyn McCall joined the board of Burberry Group plc as change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned a non-executive director on 1 September 2014 and received between the year ended 30 September 2014 and the fees of 6,667 in the period to 30 September 2014.
No year ended 30 September 2013 for the Chief Executive, other Executive Directors held external appointments in compared to the average earnings of all other easyJet the year ended 30 September 2014.
How did shareholders vote on remuneration at the % Salary Benefits Annual bonus last AGM?
Votes cast at the AGM in February 2014 in respect of the CE 2.5% 0% 10% reduction Companys remuneration policy and the Annual report Average pay based on remuneration are given in the Shareholders vote on on all easyJets UK remuneration table below.
1 employees 2.5% 0% 10% reduction In line with the Companys commitment to ongoing 1 Reflects the change in average pay for UK employees employed dialogue with its shareholders, meetings are offered, where in both the year ended 30 September 2014 and the year ended appropriate, to understand the reasons for any potential 30 September 2013. or actual opposition to the Companys remuneration policy.
How much does easyJet spend on employee pay Changes are made to our policy where it is considered each year?
The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJets employees compared to other key financial indicators.
easyJet consulted extensively with shareholders in advance of the 2014 financial year Directors remuneration report.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Change In addition, improved disclosure enables other shareholders 2013 2014 % to take a fully informed view on the current remuneration Employee costs m 517 566 9.5% framework policies and practices at easyJet.
easyJet met with the NAPF and the ABI, who recommended a vote Ordinary dividend m 133 180 35.5% for and gave a blue top report respectively.
Special dividend m 175 nil n a In relation to voting at our 2014 AGM, 37.0% and 36.5% of Average number of the total shares able to be voted were cast against the employees 8,343 8,987 7.7% resolutions relating to the approval of the Companys Revenue m 4,258 4,527 6.3% remuneration policy and approval of the Annual report on Profit before tax m 478 581 21.5% remuneration, respectively.
Two of our top 20 shareholders voted against the two resolutions.
However, all of our top 20 Additional information on the number of employees, institutional shareholders voted in support of the resolutions total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
and the next largest institutional shareholder voting against The majority of easyJets employees around 93% perform the resolutions held 0.13% of the shares able to be voted.
flight and ground operations, with the rest performing Where individual shareholders voted against our policy, the administrative and managerial roles.
Committee has sought to engage with them to understand their concerns as part of determining remuneration policy.
Shareholders vote on remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Votes cast in favour 179,101,482 54.95% 181,034,255 55.55% Votes cast against 146,816,506 45.05% 144,889,092 44.45% Total votes cast in favour or against 325,917,988 100.00% 325,923,347 100.00% Votes withheld 959,350 952,895 88 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014
