GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION SUMMARY Annual remuneration statement 93 Policy report 98 Annual report on remuneration 105 Our remuneration strategy Our aim Balance of elements The aim of Aggrekos remuneration policy is to reward We aim to balance these elements so that: executives for delivering the principal objective of our the majority of executive remuneration is linked to strategy of delivering long-term value to our Shareholders.
Aggrekos financial performance there is a heavier weighting on long-term performance Our reward package for Executive Directors comprises: than onshort-term performance: and we use a balanced portfolio of measures which delivers a fixed element: long-term value to Shareholders, a safe operating salary environment, outstanding service tocustomers and pension rewarding careers to our employees.
benefits So for example, the potential future reward opportunities generally based on market median forthe Chief Executive Officer are as follows: a variable element: Chris Weston annual bonus, based on demanding annual Minimum 100% 997k performance targets, both financial and personal Target 45% 30% 25% 2,215k Maximum 22% 29% 49% 4,559k long-term incentives, based on long-term strategic financial performance 0 1 million 2 million 3 million 4 million 5 million Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Read the Remuneration Policy Read the full scenario analysis for all Executive Directors Page 98 Page 103 Outcome for 2014 Single figure total pay for Executive Directors The following table shows a summary of total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors for 2014: LTIP Annual Base Salary Benefits Bonus PSP CIP Sharesave Pension Total Carole Cran 12,770 233,333 8,242 148,780 46,667 449,792 Debajit Das 22,176 296,048 265,856 83,897 59,561 727,538 Asterios Satrazemis 25,981 312,298 65,308 195,007 24,984 623,578 David Taylor-Smith 1,164 350,000 19,935 169,841 70,000 610,940 Rupert Soames 215,481 15,042 64,644 295,167 Angus Cockburn 101,761 427,438 15,874 333,203 139,878 1,018,154 Read the full details in the Annual Report on Remuneration Page 105 Angus Cockburn Balance of the outcome Minimum 88% 12% 665k The actual balance of the various elements of pay for Angus Actual 57% 33% 10% 1,018k Cockburn, Interim Chief Executive for 2014 was as follows Maximum 26% 35% 39% 2,241k LTIPisvalued as at date of vesting, 7 October 2014 : 0 1 million 2 million 3 million Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP 92 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT Introduction by Russell King, Remuneration Committee Chairman The Remuneration Committee is currently made up of fourindependent Non-executive Directors Ken Hanna was considered by the Board to be independent on his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since September 2010.
In 2014, the Committee held three scheduled meetings and fivead hoc meetings.
The ad hoc meetings related to the process of recommending remuneration for thenew Board appointments of Chief Executive Officer andChief Financial Officer, and revising our framework of incentives.
We also invitethe Group HR Director to attend our meetings.
Russell King To the left there is a summary of the key achievements Remuneration Committee Chairman oftheCommittee in 2014 and intended areas offocus in2015and on the opposite page there is a quick read The role of the Remuneration Committee is to summary of some of the key elements of remuneration determine the remuneration for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
Further detail on our actions in 2014 are included Aggrekos overall remuneration policy, strategy and inthefull Remuneration Committee report detailed over implementation.
Role of the Remuneration Committee 2014 Key achievements Determine and agree with the Board the policy for Consulted with major Shareholders and governance bodies on remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors and newincentive arrangements Executive Committee.
Finalised framework for new incentives Within the terms of the remuneration policy, determine Agreed remuneration package for Interim Chief Executive, thetotal individual remuneration package for the Chairman, newChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer eachExecutive Director and each member of the Executive Reviewed remuneration for Regional Executive Directors Reviewed remuneration for Executive Committee members Committee, including base salary, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Determine, having taken appropriate legal advice, the level Members in 2014 ofany payment made to the Chairman, and Executive Scheduled meetings attended Director or member of the Executive Committee by way Russell King Remuneration Committee Chairman ofcompensation for or otherwise in connection with, lossofoffice or employment.
1 David Hamill Non-executive Director Approve the design of, and determine targets for, Ken Hanna Company Chairman performance related pay schemes operated by the Companyand approve the total annual payments made Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director under such schemes.
Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval Rebecca McDonald Non-executive Director bythe Board and Shareholders.
For any plan, determine 1 David Hamill retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 eachyear the overall amount of awards, the individual awardsto Executive Directors and members of the Areas of focus in 2015 Executive Committee.
Set targets for the new Annual Bonus Plan, both financial and the Determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements newpersonal strategic objectives for each Executive Director and members of the Secure Shareholder approval for new remuneration policy and new Executive Committee.
Long-Term Incentive Plan at the 2015 AGM Oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures Decide awards under the new Long-Term Incentive Plan throughout the Group.
Undertake a detailed review of base pay for both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officeroncethe Committee considers these Agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from individuals are fully establishedin their respective roles the Directors.
Remuneration Committee terms of reference: www.
pdf Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 93 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED So targets for the annual bonus are not directly linked to the Our remuneration policy previous years budget oroutcome.
All targets were set on The aim of our remuneration policy is to reward executives for aconstant currency basis, using exchange rates fixed at the achieving the principal objective of our strategy of delivering beginning of the year, so that the bonus reflected the true long-term value to our Shareholders.
performance of the business, and not currency movements.
Our reward package for Executive Directors is structured For each of the D-EPS, regional profit and group operating suchthat: cashflow elements of the annual bonus, all Executive Directors the fixed element of pay salary, pension and benefits would earn 50% for on-budget performance.
The threshold for isaround the median for companies of similar size earning bonus based on D-EPS and regional profit was set in and complexity: each case at 95% of budget and the maximum at 110% of the majority of executive remuneration is linked to Aggrekos budget.
Threshold and maximum for group operating cashflow performance, with a heavier weighting on long-term were 92.5% and 107.5% respectively.
performance than on short-term performance: and the remuneration packages reward a balanced portfolio We have set out on page 107 a full analysis for each of the ofmeasures which deliver long-term value to Shareholders, financial measures, but the following table shows a summary asafe operating environment, outstanding service to ofperformance against budget.
The reported D-EPS and customers and rewarding careers to our employees, each operating cash flow have been adjusted to a constant ofwhich can be independently verified, and which give clear currency basis.
% of bonus 2014 2014 % of element This year we are asking Shareholders to approve a new Element budget outcome budget achieved remuneration policy.
We explain the main changes and D-EPS 86.14p 87.29p 101.3 56.7 somerecent developments on pages 95 to 96 and full details Operating ofthe new policy itself are set out in the Policy Report on cash flow 615.8m 536.0m 87 0 page 98.
Trading profit APAC USD108.2m USD87.0m 80 0 Performance outcomes for 2014 Debtor days As the Chairman notes in his statement on page 5, the Group APAC 64 73 0 delivered a solid trading performance in 2014, admirably handling Trading the change in senior management and difficult operating profit Americas USD254.3m USD259.5m 102 60.3 conditions in a number of our markets.
Revenue increased Debtor by9% on an underlying basis, although trading profit days Americas 58 58 100 decreased by 2%.
Reported diluted earnings per share Trading profit orD-EPS also decreased by 10%from 92.03p to82.49p.
EMEA USD213.8m USD214.0m 100.1 50.5 Against this background, Executive Directors received bonuses Debtor days ranging from 28% to 74% of salary.
So we thought it would be EMEA 76 89 0 helpful to explain here how variable pay is set and measured, and why the Committee believes that the actual bonus and And so in summary: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP outcomes for 2014 are as D-EPS beat budget for the year by 1.3%, each Executive consistent with Company performance.
Director will receive 56.7% of the element of his or her bonus which is based on D-EPS: Performance and annual bonus as Group operating cash flow fell short of target, none of that The aim of the annual bonus plan is to focus Executive element will be payable: Directors onachieving demanding annual targets relating to as two of the three regions beat their regional trading profit Company performance.
For 2014, annual bonus payments budget, the two Directors responsible for those regions were determined purely on financial performance.
At the willreceive part of their regional trading profit element: and beginning of the year, we set targets for Executive Directors as only one of the three regions met its debtor day target, based on challenging budgets and stretch targets for the only the Director responsible for that region will receive his Group and the regions.
We placed more emphasis on earnings debtor day element.
growth than other financial measures, using diluted earnings per share or D-EPS for all Executive Directors with the addition Read more and see our bonus entitlement and outcome charts of regional trading profit for those with regional responsibilities.
To these measures we added operating cash flow to targets for Page 108 the Interim Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and regional trading profit and debtor days for regional directors.
Setting targets is arigorous process, based on the Groups annual budget and reflecting expected market conditions and external forecasts, rather than, say, historic performance.
94 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Performance and LTIPs Summary of proposed changes to long-term incentives This year, Executive Directors will receive only the minimum The Committee proposes the following changes to Aggreko awards under their LTIPs.
No material changes to other elements ofremuneration are proposed at this time.
Our LTIPs are designed to align the interests of management with those of Shareholders in growing the value of the business Long-term incentives over the long term.
The awards which are about to vest were Simplification of the LTIP by removing the matching element granted in 2012, subject to demanding performance conditions Dropping of the guaranteed match and super LTIP based on real i. e. excluding inflation D-EPS growth of 320% elements and return on capital employed ROCE of 2628% measured Maintaining the 75% 25% balance between EPS and ROCE over a three-year period.
Reduction in the overall maximum LTIP opportunity Introduction of a mandatory holding period and In summary, during that period real D-EPS showed no growth, dividend accrual and as a result, noneof theshares subject tothe D-EPS Introduction of clawback and malus growth criterion will vest: average ROCE was 22% asagainst atarget range of 2628%, and similarly noneofthe shares Simplification subject to the ROCE conditionwill vest.
Therefore none of the The 2004 LTIP comprised two components: a Performance performance element of the 2012 will vest: only the matching Share Plan PSP under which participants were awarded element, equivalent ineach case to15% of salary at the time nil-cost conditional awards of shares: and a Co-Investment ofgrant will vest.
The CIP awards granted to Angus Cockburn Plan CIP under which executives could receive matching in 2012, 2013 and 2014were treated slightly differently, as they shares on co-invested amounts.
vested early when he left theCompany.
Further details of LTIPs which vested in2014areincluded in the table on page 110.
In response to feedback from some of our Shareholders andreflecting recent trends in market best practice, the Committee proposes replacing the PSP and CIP with a single Changes to remuneration policy PSP.
Under the proposal, participants will continue to be This year we will be asking our Shareholders to approve eligible for an annual grant of nil-cost conditional awards anewremuneration policy for Executive Directors at our vesting subject to the achievement of stretching performance AnnualGeneral Meeting.
I explain below the background to, targets.
The CIP will therefore be dropped.
and the reasons for, the proposed changes to the Companys Performance measures and targets executive remuneration policy.
The Committee believes three-year cumulative EPS growth Context for change andROCE remain key measures of Aggrekos long-term As we explained in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report, performance, andno changes are proposed to the definitions the Companys existing Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and weightings of these measures.
The Committee feels that expiredfollowing the grant of awards in April 2014.
Over the EPS has worked well as a measure in Aggrekos incentives, 10-year lifeof the plan, Aggreko delivered exceptionally strong helping reinforce profitable growth.
It also sees ROCE as performance, withTSR CAGR and EPS growth of 28% p. a. agood complementary measure to EPS, helping ensure and 25% p. a. respectively, and the Committee believes that executives strive to achieve anappropriate balance between akey driver ofthis has been the effective use of performancegrowth and returns.
The Committee believes that the current related remuneration to focus management ondelivering 75% 25% blend ofEPS and ROCE in the LTIP sustained value growth for Shareholders.
With the expiry of the LTIP and recent changes to our As part of the move to a simpler incentive structure, management team, the Committee has taken the opportunity theCommittee is proposing to remove the super LTIP to conduct a thorough review of each element of the Companys element ofthe 2004 LTIP, under which real EPS growth of remuneration arrangements to ensure that they remain between 10% per annum and 20% per annum could trigger appropriate and aligned with Aggrekos business strategy, amultiplier ofbetween one timesand two times on both PSP andcontinue to incentivise the management team to drive and CIP shares.
Instead, the Committee proposes a single EPS forsustainable long-term value creation.
The Committee is performance range withno multiplier.
The Committee will set alsomindful of evolving best practice for executive both the EPS growth targets and the ROCE targets for future remuneration, and during 2014 we consulted a number of awards each year.
For 2015, and the next two years for which ourmajor Shareholders on proposed changes.
The new thepolicy applies, the entrypoint for the real EPS growth targets remuneration policy and Long-Term Incentive Plan to be of3% per annum remains unchanged, but the upper limit presented to Shareholders for approval at our 2015 Annual willbe 15% per annum.
Accordingly, for any part of an award General Meeting reflect the results of those consultations.
subject to the EPS condition to vest, cumulative EPS must beat least equivalent to that which would be achieved by constantreal compound growth of RPI 3% per annum over the performance period.
These targets take into account the changes outlined above, the strategic plan, broker forecasts Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 95 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED and market practice.
The Committee is not proposing to make The holding period will end early on a takeover, scheme of any changes to the ROCE performance range for 2015 awards, arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon the death which will retain therange of 20% to 25%, and any future ofan individual or in exceptional circumstances on such other ROCE performance targets will be, in the opinion of the date as determined by the Committee.
Committee, no less challenging in the circumstances than The Committee is also proposing to permit dividend accrual those in place for 2015. forunvested shares over the three-year vesting period or Historically, the CIP included a guaranteed match based inrespect of shares held under an option that is subject to oncontinued employment only.
This guaranteed element aholding period until the earlier of the date of exercise and willdisappear along with the matching element.
Any vested shares acquired willrecognise the dividends that would have accrued to them In summary, under the proposals, awards to Executive during the relevant period.
Directors in 2015 would vest as follows: Introduction of malus and clawback provisions EPS ROCE In line with current best practice, the Committee proposes Weighting 75% 25% tointroduce malus and clawback provisions into the new Threshold Cumulative EPS 20% 3-year long-term incentive.
Further details are given on page 101. growth equivalent average Annual bonus to RPI 3% per Alongside the above changes to long-term incentives, annum theCommittee is proposing some smaller changes to the Maximum Cumulative EPS 25% 3-year annual bonus: growth equivalent average to RPI 15% per Proposed change Rationale annum Introduce a new element Recognises the Vesting at Threshold 0% 0% based on personal importance ofnonstrategic objectives financial KPIs for driving Reduction in overall maximum LTIP opportunity aligned to Aggreko KPIs performance The maximum annual award face value that may be granted Weight this new element Helps ensure continuing toan executive under the proposed LTIP will form part of the 20% of maximum bonus focus on financial All remuneration policy that will be put to a binding Shareholder potential retaining 80% performance: the Executive vote at the 2015 AGM.
For the policy to be approved at the on financial performance, underpin is intended Directors 2015AGM, the Committee is proposing that the maximum but underpin the toensure that bonuses award face value be capped at 300% of salary, a reduction personal strategic for personal strategic from the current normal maximum of 320% of salary for the element with EPS objectives aretypically Chief Executive Officer.
performance as paidonly if EPS reflectedon page 99 performance is Award sizes have been calibrated to broadly maintain fair values satisfactory at current levels.
Increase maximum Improves Introduction of a mandatory holding period and bonus opportunity for competitiveness dividendaccrual Regional Executive oftheirpay and helps In order to provide further alignment with Shareholders, Directors from 100% of drive performance theCommittee is proposing to introduce an additional salary to125% of salary Regional mandatoryholding period for the new LTIP.
Any shares vesting Executive Introduce mandatory Provides consistency on three-year performance would be released in equal tranches Directors bonus deferral, requiring with theexisting policy onthe third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of grant, 25% of any bonus to be for Chief Executive asillustrated below: deferred inAggreko Officer and Chief shares, vesting after Financial Officer.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 threeyears Introduction of clawback provisions 2015 grant Vesting 1 3 1 3 The Committee also proposes to introduce clawback 1 3 released released released provisions for the annual bonus, similar to those for the Additional oneand LTIPreferred to above.
Three-year two-year performance period holding periods 96 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Sharesave Executive Chairman As indicated in last years report, we have increased the Ken Hanna was appointed Executive Chairman from annualsavings limit for Sharesave savings to 500 per month 1 October2014 until Chris Weston joined the Company or overseas equivalent, toreflect the new statutory limit for on2 January 2015.
During this period Ken Hanna did not UK schemes.
receiveany additional remuneration over his remuneration as Non-executive Chairman.
The Board was also satisfied that New appointments thisappointment did not compromise his independence as Following the departure of Rupert Soames in April 2014, weare amember of the Committee.
pleased to have agreed the appointment terms of ChrisWeston formerly an executive director with Centrica plc as Chief Annual pay review for 2015 Executive Officer of Aggreko.
In seeking a new Chief Executive In December 2014, the Committee undertook a detailed Officer, the Board was clear from the outset that it wished reviewof the salaries for our three Regional Executive Director toappoint a seasoned, high calibre,  roles.
Following this review, the Committee has agreed to Executive from arelevant sector, with the leadership capability increase the salaries of Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylorto build on Aggrekos success.
Chris Weston fulfilled all ofthese Smith by8%, and the salary of Debajit Das by 3%.
A base salary of 750,000 per annum was determined of Carole Cran, Chief Financial Officer, was also reviewed by after careful consideration of relevant market factors, taking into theCommittee and increased by 3%.
All increases became account theneed to achieve an appropriate balance between effective1 January 2015.
Chris Weston assumed the role of fixed andvariable pay.
Chriss salary is positioned slightly above Chief Executive Officer on 2 January 2015 and has therefore median relative to the salaries of ChiefExecutive Officers in our received nosalary increase.
Consistent with the approach FTSE -20 comparator group.
takenfor theRegional Executive Directors, the Committee willseek to undertake amore detailed review for both the The Committee also agreed, in line with policy, to compensate ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer once him for any variable remuneration that he would forfeit under theseindividuals are fully established in their respective roles.
Accordingly, the Company has agreed to award him shares under a restricted stock Shareholding requirements agreement, established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 tocompensate In light of evolving investor guidance, the Committee has for the forfeiture of long-term incentives.
The Committee undertaken a review of the Executive Director shareholding believed thattheopportunity to recruit a Chief Executive Officer requirements.
The Committee has determined that in future, of ChrisWestons calibre justified relying on those provisions.
allExecutive Directors will be required to build and retain a The Committee undertook anindependent review of the shareholding of not less than two times base salary an valuehe would be forfeiting and determined the amount at increase of 50% salary for the Chief Financial Officer and 2,238,000.
This amount will be paidin Aggreko shares 100%salary for the Regional Executive Directors.
Other than andreleased 50% on 1 April 2016 and50% on 1 April 2017 inexceptional circumstances, Executive Directors will have subject to his continuing employment on vesting, or if he leaves fiveyears from their respective appointments to achieve these the Company as a good leaver.
The number of shares was shareholding requirements.
LTIP shares in theirholding period determined based on the closing price of an Aggreko share and deferred bonus shares i. e. shares thatare no longer of1749p on 28 May 2014, being theday immediately prior to subjecttoperformance, will count towards achievement the date of announcement of his appointment, resulting in a ofthese guidelines.
conditional award over a total of 127,958 shares.
In addition, the In conclusion Company has agreed to compensate him forany annual bonus The Committee believes that the proposals outlined above for 2014 from his previous employer he forfeited as a result of willsimplify Aggrekos long-term incentive arrangements his resignation, based on the average percentage bonus significantly, ensure continued alignment of our reward received by the Centrica executive directors as shown inthe structures with our strategy, and assist Aggreko in continuing Centrica annual report.
This will be paid in March 2015 as 75% toattract, motivate and retain the talent it requires to achieve in cash and the balance in Aggreko shares, which will be itsfuture growth plans.
The growth targets linked to the LTIP proposals continue to be These benefits provided to the Chief Executive Officer are very stretching.
Aggreko has delivered significant Shareholder not pensionable.
value in recent years and the start point for the new incentives Aggreko has been through a period of significant management stretching targets comes off a significantly higher base than change, with the four other Executive Directors having been that of 10 years ago when the previous scheme was conceived.
appointed to the Board in the last 27 months.
It is important If these new targets are achieved, the increase in Shareholder thatsalaries for these individuals are competitive and reflect value will be significant.
their contribution to the Company.
Carole Cran, Aggrekos former Director of Finance, became Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2014.
Caroles basepay on her appointment was 400,000 per annum, which is at the same level as her predecessor, Angus Cockburn.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 97 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED POLICY REPORT SUMMARY OF AGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS THIS SECTION OF OUR REPORT SUMMARISES THE KEY COMPONENTS OFAGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fixed pay Base salary Pension Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are To provide relevant statutory benefits and be competitive competitive in the talent market s relevant to each individual.
inthe market in which the individual is employed.
We aim to pay the market median for standard performance Operation and within the market top quartile for top quartile All Executive Directors are entitled to a defined-contribution performance, or to recruit outstanding candidates.
They can opt to take a cash payment in lieu of all orpart of their pension.
Operation Base salaries are generally reviewed annually: in determining Opportunity the appropriate level of adjustment, we take into account: Contributions of between 20% and 30% of salary per annum Company performance: the individuals responsibilities and except where limited by local practice.
contribution to the business: salary levels for comparable roles at relevant comparators: and salary increases more Performance metrics broadly across the Group.
In the case of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the benchmark we use is the 20 companies Benefits either side ofAggreko in the FTSE based on the average market capitalisation over the previous 12 months.
For other Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors, we use asimilar benchmarking approach but recognise that comparability is harder to gauge and less Designed to be competitive in the market in which the individual is employed.
Expatriate and relocation packages formulaic for theseroles.
designed to ensure a geographically mobile management Opportunity population related to business needs.
Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome Operation of the annual review.
Includes health-care benefits, life assurance cover, a company The Chief Executive Officer will have the highest base salary car or an allowance in lieu and expatriate package.
ofallExecutive Directors, and the maximum salary for Where appropriate the Company will bear the cost of any theChiefExecutive Officer may be within the top quartile local taxes payable on any expatriate benefits.
The Company ofChiefExecutive Officer salaries for the FTSE - will also bear any UK tax that Executive Directors resident 20 comparators.
overseas incur as a result ofcarrying out their duties in the UK.
Performance metrics Opportunity Continued good performance.
Benefits vary by role and local practice, and are reviewed periodically relative to market.
Ongoing benefits i. e. excluding expatriate benefits and relocation allowances payable to Executive Directors did notexceed 10.1% of salary during the most recent financial year, andexpatriate benefits and relocation allowances did not exceed 81% of salary, and it is not anticipated that in normal circumstances the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level over the next three years.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher costin exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. increases in insurance premiums or taxes.
98 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Variable pay possible.
If the personal strategic objectives are achieved but Annual bonus scheme EPS is below threshold performance, then the Committee has Purpose and link to strategy the discretion to reduce, if appropriate to zero, the personal strategic element that would otherwise have been paid.
Aims to focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual targets relating to Company performance.
Further details of the performance measures used for the 2014 annual bonus are set out in the Annual Report on The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard Remuneration on page 107. to Annual Bonus are set out on page 96.
Operation Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance measures and targets are set at the start of Purpose and link to strategy theyear and are weighted to reflect the balance of Group Aims to align the interests of management with those of andregional responsibilities for each executive.
Shareholders in growing the value of the business over the At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent long term.
to which these have been achieved.
The Committee has the Vesting of awards is subject to performance conditions based ability to exercise discretion to adjust for factors outside on the long-term financial performance of the Group: the management control.
valueof the awards is based on both the proportion vesting Bonus payments are typically delivered as to 75% in cash i. e. the Companys financial performance and the movement andas to 25% deferred into shares and released after three in the share price over the vesting period.
The holding period will end early on a takeover, scheme following the performance period will vest at a value that of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon the recognises the dividends that would have accrued to them death of an individual or in exceptional circumstances on during the three-year vesting period and in respect of shares suchother date determined by the Committee.
The deferred held under an option that is subject to a holding period until share element will lapse where an individual is dismissed for the earlier of the date of exercise and the expiry of the gross misconduct.
Dividends will accrue on the deferred holding period.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard to number of shares that can vest in the event of gross the LTIP are set out on pages 95 and 96. misconduct or a material misstatement of the accounts orwhere an error is made when determining the size of the Operation bonus and or the deferred share element.
The LTIP comprises a single Performance Share Plan.
Opportunity Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed from The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 175% of salary.
time to time to ensure they remain appropriate and aligned To date this level has been used only for the Chief Executive with Shareholder interests.
The financial element of the bonuses start to be A proportion of shares which vest will be subject to a further earned for threshold performance for which no bonus is retention period of up to two years, with one-third being paid, rising on a straight-line to deliver50% 55% for regional released on vesting and a further third being released after directors of maximum for on-budget performance.
each of one and two years from vesting.
The holding period Performance metrics will end early on a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon the death of an individual Performance is assessed annually with 20% of the maximum or in exceptional circumstances on such other date bonus potential based on personal strategic objectives determined by the Committee.
On vesting participants will aligned to the Companys KPIs and 80% on challenging beentitled to the equivalent of any dividends on the shares budget and stretch targets forGroup and regional financial between grant and vesting or the earlier of the date of performance.
The current measures for financial performance exercise of an option and the expiry of any holding period.
are EPS and operating cash flow at Group level and trading profit and ROCE at regional level, but may vary each year Opportunity depending on business context and strategy.
All measures The PSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares will be weighted appropriately according to business priorities, worth up to an aggregate limit of 300% of salary per annum.
with generally more weighting on earnings growth than other factors.
The personal strategic objectives, accounting for 20% of the annual bonus, typically cover customer service, safety and internal leadership and are quantifiable wherever Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 99 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED POLICY REPORT CONTINUED Payments from outstanding awards Variable pay continued Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payment underany contractual arrangement agreed prior to the Long-Term Incentive Plan continued  of the remuneration policy, Performance metrics i. e. before 29 April 2015.
In particular, they will be entitled to receive any awards vesting under the incentive arrangements There are two performance measures for the PSP.
75% of the included in the remuneration policy approved at the Companys LTIP performance is based on three-year cumulative Diluted 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Earnings per Share, and 25% against Return on Capital Employed.
In terms of D-EPS, cumulative D-EPS over the Performance measure selection and approach to performance period is compared to a range of three-year targetsetting compound growth inreal i. e. inflation adjusted D-EPS The measures used under the Annual Bonus Scheme targets.
The targets are set by theRemuneration Committee reflectthe Companys key financial objectives for the year.
each year, with no shares vesting at the threshold level, The Committee considers that EPS used in both the Annual andawards then increasing from nil to maximum on a Bonus Plan and LTIP is an objective and well-accepted straight-line basis.
measure of the Companys performance which reinforces the strategic objective of achieving profitable growth.
The additional The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make use of Group cash flow for the Chief Executive Officer and such adjustments as are necessary to ensure that the ChiefFinancial Officer rewards the effective management published performance figures are consistent and represent ofworking capital.
This would include any adjustment to rectify any material misstatement of Targets for the Annual Bonus Scheme are tied to the Annual the accounts.
Budgets set by the Board and have due regard to external forecasts.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but Further details of LTIP award sizes and targets are provided achievable and take into account the economic environment inthe Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 109 to 116. ina given year.
Generally, bonuses will start to be earned at performance levels a few percentage points below Budget, increase sharply to Budget, and then increase until they Other reachcapped levels, which will generally be around 10% above Budget.
Sharesave Under the LTIP, Group D-EPS is complemented by Purpose and link to strategy ROCEtoreflect the need to balance growth and returns.
To align the interests of employees and Shareholders Targets applying to the LTIP are reviewed annually, based on byencouraging all employees to own Aggreko shares.
anumber of internal and external reference points to ensure they remain appropriately stretching.
Operation This is an all-employee scheme whereby all employees including Executive Directors with at least three months continuous service may save up to 500 or local currency equivalent per month over aperiod of two to five years.
Options under the Sharesave Option Schemes and the USStock Purchase Plan are granted at a discount of 20% and 15% respectively.
Opportunity Savings capped at 500 a month or local currency equivalent, reflecting the statutory limit for UK schemes.
100 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Malus and clawback Amount to be subject to malus clawback Awards under the Annual Bonus Scheme and the Long-Term Where malus clawback applies as a result of a misstatement or Incentive Plan are subject to malus and clawback as follows: error, the amount will generally be based on the additional value which the Committee considers has been granted to, vested in Malus between grant and vesting of awards under the or received by the relevant individual as a result of the relevant Long-Term Incentive Plan misstatement or error.
Where the malus clawback applies for The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares any other reason, it will be the amount that the Committee that vest if: decides is appropriate.
the Committee forms the view that the Company materially misstated its financial results for whatever reason: or Satisfaction of clawback the Committee forms the view that the number of shares The Committee has wide discretion in deciding how any subject to an award was based on any other kind of error clawback will be satisfied, including: oron the basis of any inaccurate or misleading information reducing the amount of any future bonus which would orassumptions: or otherwise be payable: the relevant individual ceases to be a Director or employee reducing the extent to which any subsisting awards under ofAggreko as a result of gross misconduct or the Committee theLTIP vest: isofthe view that the relevant individual could have been reducing the extent to which subsisting awards under any summarily dismissed by reason of his gross misconduct.
other share incentive plan vest: reducing the number of any deferred bonus shares and Clawback following vesting of shares under the LTIPawards which have vested and so are no longer subject Long-Term Incentive Plan and theAnnual Bonus Scheme to performance conditions but are subject to post-vesting The Committee has discretion to decide at any time within deferral provisions: three years of the date of deferral of annual bonus or the date requiring the relevant individual to pay the amount of on which an award vests under the LTIP that the relevant clawback to the Company: and individual shall be subject to clawback if: deducting the amount from the relevant individuals salary the Committee forms the view that the Company materially orfrom any other payment to be made by the Company.
misstated its financial results for whatever reason: or the Committee forms the view that in assessing any If the relevant individual is required to repay any additional Performance Condition and or any other condition imposed value, the Committee may consider whether that amount on the award such assessment was based on an error, or on should take into account any income tax and national inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions: or  paid by the relevant individual and the relevant individual ceases to be a Director or employee anypossibility of him reclaiming such income tax and national ofAggreko as a result of gross misconduct or the Committee insurance contributions.
isof the view that the relevant individual could have been summarily dismissed by reason of his gross misconduct.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 101 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SUMMARY OF AGGREKOS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR  AND CHAIRMAN THE TABLE BELOW SUMMARISES OUR POLICY ON THE REMUNERATION PAIDTOOUR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN Incentives and benefits for Non-executive Non-executive Directors Directors and Chairman Purpose and link to strategy Non-executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate To attract and retain Non-executive Directors with an inincentive arrangements or receive other remuneration appropriate degree of skills, experience, independence inaddition to their fees.
However, where appropriate the andknowledge of the Company and its business.
Company may provide additional benefits in kind, which are notexpected toexceed 20% of the annual fee in any year.
Operation Fee levels for Non-executive Directors are generally Approach to recruitment remuneration reviewedby the Board annually.
Remuneration comprises The Companys approach to remuneration for newly appointed anannual fee for acting as a Non-executive Director and Directors is identical to that for existing Directors.
As a matter of serving as a member of any Committees.
Additional fees practicality, we recognise that it may be necessary to pay within arepaid in respect of service as chairman of a committee the market top quartile salaries in order to attract candidates oras Senior independent Director.
ofthe quality the business needs.
New Executive Directors willbe invited to participate in incentive plans on the same When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same basisasexisting Executive Directors.
However, the Committee comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information may alterthe performance measures, performance period, provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent reference salary and vesting period of the annual bonus ofthe duties performed and the size of the Company.
orLTIPs, subject to the rules of the plans, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit Opportunity thealteration.
The Committee will explain the rationale for Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the anysuch changes.
Where appropriate the Company will annual review.
Currently the maximum aggregate annual fee for offerto pay reasonable relocation expenses for new Executive all Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, provided Directors in line with the Companys policies described above.
in the Companys articles of association is 900,000.
It is not the Companys policy to offer sign-on payments, but where the Remuneration Committee considers it is necessary Performance metrics to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer None.
compensation for amounts ofvariable remuneration foregone, provided the fair value is no greater.
In doing so, the Committee will consider all relevant factors including time to vesting, Chairman delivery vehicle cash vs. shares vs. options, any performance conditions attached tothe awards and the likelihood of the Purpose and link to strategy conditions being met.
In order to facilitate such compensation To attract and retain a Chairman to provide effective the Committee may rely on the exemption contained in Listing leadership for the Board.
2, which allows for the grant of awards in exceptional circumstances tofacilitate the recruitment of a Director.
Operation Where the Company is considering the promotion of senior Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for management to the Board, the Committee may, at its acting as Chairman, and serving as Chairman or as a member discretion, agree that any commitments made before of any Committees.
The Remuneration Committee sets the promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not Chairmans remuneration, subject to review when appropriate.
consistent with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on this page.
the duties performed and the size of the Company.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as Opportunity amember of any Committees, with additional fees payable for Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the acting as Chairman of a Committee or as Senior Independent annual review.
Currently the maximum aggregate annual fee for Director.
In recruiting a new Chairman of the Board, the fee all Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, provided offered would be inclusive of serving on any Committees.
102 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future in the Group, and is informed of changes to broader employee reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential pay.
The Remuneration Committee does not specifically consult split between the different elements of remuneration under with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target the remuneration policy or use any remuneration comparison andMaximum.
measurements, although as members of the Board they receive Chris Weston the results of the Companys periodical employee satisfaction Minimum 100% 997k survey which includes questions covering remuneration.
Target 45% 30% 25% 2,215k Maximum 22% 29% 49% 4,559k Carole Cran Service contracts and policy on payment Minimum 100% 510k for loss of office Target 45% 27% 27% 1,128k Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,364k It is the Companys policy to provide for 12 months notice for Debajit Das termination of employment for Executive Directors, to be given Minimum 100% 632k by either party.
For Executive Directors who have been newly Target 59% 20%21% 1,070k recruited from outside the Group, the period would normally be Maximum 33% 20% 47% 1,928k six months, increasing to 12 months after 12 months service.
Asterios Satrazemis Minimum 100% 422k The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on Target 47% 26% 28% 907k Maximum 23% 23% 55% 1,856k termination to pre-established contractual arrangements: if the David Taylor-Smith Company believes it appropriate to protect its interests, it may Minimum 100% 474k also make additional payments in exchange for non-compete Target 47% 26% 28% 1,017k non-solicitation terms which are above and beyond those in the Maximum 23% 23% 55% 2,080k Directors contract of employment.
Typically, these will serve to 0 1 million 2 million 3 million 4 million 5 million extend the non-compete period for up to three years from the Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP date of termination.
The Committee has discretion to contribute Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on towards outplacement services and the legal fees for any the remuneration policy applied to the base salary in force at departing Director to the extent it considers appropriate.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated Under normal circumstances, the Company may terminate the are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for employment of an Executive Director by making a payment in 2015.
It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits for the do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of notice period at the rate current at the date of termination.
The projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact In case of gross misconduct, a provision is included in the of share price movement.
In illustrating potential reward Executives contract for immediate dismissal with no opportunities the following assumptions are made: compensation payable.
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Minimum Latest base pay, No annual Threshold not Treatment of long-term incentive awards pension and bonus achieved, so no ontermination of employment and ongoing benefits amount vesting corporate events Target Latest base pay, On target Performance pension and annual bonus warrants 25% of In the event an Executive Director leaves for reasons of death, ongoing benefits maximum vesting ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the Company, or his employing company or Maximum Latest base pay, Maximum Performance business ceasing to be a member or undertaking of the pension and annual bonus warrants full vesting Groupor other such event as the Remuneration Committee ongoing benefits determines the good leaver reasons, then awards held for lessthan one year will normally lapse unless the Committee determines that the circumstances are, in its opinion, Employment conditions elsewhere sufficiently exceptional in which case an award may vest to intheCompany theextent determined by the Committee having regard to The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of theperformance conditions and the period during which the seniorexecutives below the Board is consistent with that for the participant was employed and subject to any other additional terms and conditions that the Committee may determine.
Around 180 senior executives will be invited to Awards held by a good leaver for at least one year will normally participate in the new LTIP with the same performance measures be pro-rated for time and will vest on the normal vesting date or applied, but at lower maximum percentage levels of salary.
atthe Committees discretion a date following cessation based on performance over the original performance period or if the award vests early on cessation, a curtailed performance period as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 103 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED POLICY REPORT CONTINUED For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards will normally lapse.
No current serving Executive Directors hold external directorships.
Upon the occurrence of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up a Corporate Event, awards held for less than one year will lapse unless either they are released and exchanged Share ownership guidelines for equivalent awards on an internal reorganisation or The Committee has a policy of encouraging Executive Directors reconstruction, or the Committee determines that the to acquire and retain a material number of shares in the circumstances are, in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional in Company, with the objective of further aligning their long-term which case an award may vest to the extent determined by the interests with those of other Shareholders.
The minimum Committee having regard to the performance conditions and requirement for Executive Directors is 200% of salary.
subject to any other additional terms and conditions that the Committee may determine.
Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines include: Awards granted at least 12 months prior to the date of the shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director or by Corporate Event will vest to the extent that, in the opinion of the aconnected person, as recognised by the Committee: Committee, the Performance Conditions have been satisfied at deferred bonus shares and LTIP awards which have vested that time or would have been satisfied were it not for the and so are no longer subject to performance conditions relevant Corporate Event.
butare subject to post-vesting deferral provisions: and Awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, vest early on shares held under any restricted stock plan or any plan ademerger to the extent that, in the opinion of the Committee, established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2. the Performance Conditions have been satisfied at that time or Executive Directors are expected to build their shareholding would have been satisfied and subject to any other additional over a five-year period, but are not required to make personal terms and conditions that the Committee may determine.
Awards will normally be exchanged for new awards on an share purchases if awards do not vest through failing to meet internal reorganisation or reconstruction unless the Committee performance conditions, and so a newly-appointed Director allow them to vest on the basis which would apply on may not reach the required level within the period, depending a takeover.
on the Companys performance against target over the period.
If so, the Committee will review the circumstances and agree The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to vary an appropriate forward plan.
theextent to which and the date when awards vest on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances, The Committee retains the discretion to grant dispensation toensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
from these requirements in exceptional circumstances.
There is no particular requirement for Non-executive Directors External appointments to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a holding It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to over time.
accept directorships of other quoted companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of Directors shareholdings are included in the table in the the Board.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Implementation Report on page 114.
Directors, together with fees retained during the year are as follows: Period for policy Executive External Role s Fees The policy is intended to take effect from 29 April 2015, being Director company held retained thedate of the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Rupert Electrocomponents plc Senior 17,750 Soames Independent The Committee is satisfied that the proposed new remuneration Director and policy is in the best interests of Shareholders and does not Chairman of promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains Remuneration discretion to makenon-significant changes to the policy Committee withoutreverting to Shareholders.
Angus GKN plc Non-executive 41,250 Cockburn Director Fees are to date of resignation as a Director 104 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION In the following section of our report we explain how we have implemented Aggrekos remuneration policy during 2014.
The policy in place for the year was the one which was approved by Shareholders at Aggrekos 2014 Annual General Meeting, and so is different fromthe proposed new policy set out in the earlier section of this report, which we are asking Shareholders to approve in April 2015.
The main changes between the two relate to the new incentive arrangements we plan to introduce now that the previous Long-Term Incentive Plan has expired.
These changes are explained on pages 95 to 96.
We have given brief details of the previous policy below, butfull details of the policy can be found in Aggrekos 2013 Report and Accounts, pages 83 to 88, which is available on our website at www.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
2 Debajit Dass remuneration for 2014 was paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 SG$2.0875.
3 Debajit Dass remuneration for 2013 was paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 SG$1.9577.
4 Asterios Satrazemiss remuneration for 2014 was paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 US$1.6487.
5 Asterios Satrazemiss remuneration for 2013 was paid in local currency and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 US$1.5648.
6 David Taylor-Smiths remuneration for 2013 is from date of appointment, 11 March 2013.
7 Rupert Soamess remuneration for 2014 is to date of resignation as a Director, 24 April 2014.
8 Angus Cockburns remuneration for 2014 is to date of resignation, 30 September 2014.
9 David Hamills remuneration for 2014 is to date of retirement, 24 April 2014.
10 Ian Marchants remuneration for 2013 is from date of appointment, 1 November 2013.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 105 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The figures have been calculated as follows: 1 Base salary fees: amount earned for the year.
2 Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
3 Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
See Annual bonus scheme on page 107 below.
4 2014 remuneration from LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 16 April 2012 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2014 and are due to vest on 16 April2015.
The value is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2014 of 1522p.
In the case of Angus Cockburn the remuneration from LTIPs refers to share awards granted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 which vested on 7 October 2014.
The value is based on the price on7 October 2014 of 1522p.
See Long-Term Incentive Plan on pages 109 and 110 below.
5 2013 remuneration for LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 19 April 2011 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2013 which vested on 19 April 2014.
The value is based on the share price on 19 April 2014 of 1516p.
6 Sharesave: the value is based on the market price of an Aggreko share on the date of grant, less the option price, multiplied by the number of options.
7 Pension: the amount of any Company pension contributions and cash in lieu.
See Pensions on page 111 below.
Base salary The base salaries for Executive Directors as at 1 January 2015, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 were as follows: 1 January Local currency 31 December Local currency 31 December 2015 increase 2014 increase 2013 Executive Director Position % % Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer 750,000 3 Carole Cran Chief Financial Officer 412,000 3 400,000 1 4 9 Debajit Das Regional Director, Asia Pacific 304,910 3 296,048 3 306,482 2 5 10 Asterios Satrazemis Regional Director, Americas 337,357 8 312,367 3 319,530 David Taylor-Smith Regional Director, Europe, Middle East & Africa 378,000 8 350,000 3 340,000 6 Rupert Soames Former Chief Executive 675,000 0 675,000 7 Angus Cockburn Former Chief Financial Officer 400,000 0 400,000 8 Angus Cockburn Former Interim Chief Executive 600,000 1 Debajit Dass salary as at 1 January 2015 is payable in local currency SG$636,500 and for the purposes or this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 SG$2.0875.
2 Asterios Satrazemiss salary as at 1 January 2015 is payable in local currency US$556,200 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 US$1.6487.
3 Carole Crans salary is from date of appointment, 1 June 2014.
4 Debajit Dass salary as at 31 December 2014 was paid in local currency SG$618,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 SG$2.0875.
5 Asterios Satrazemiss salary as at 31 December 2014 was paid in local currency US$515,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 US$1.6487.
6 Rupert Soamess salary is at date of resignation as a Director, 24 April 2014.
7 Angus Cockburns salary is at date of ceasing to be Chief Financial Officer.
8 Angus Cockburns salary is at date of resignation, 30 September 2014.
9 Debajit Dass salary as at 31 December 2013 was paid in local currency SG$600,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 SG$1.9577.
10 Asterios Satrazemiss salary as at 31 December 2013 was paid in local currency US$500,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 US$1.5648.
Benefits All Executive Directors received health-care benefits with the exception of Carole Cran.
All Executive Directors were also provided withlife assurance cover, income protection and accident insurance.
Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn each received the benefit ofaCompany-funded car and fuel allowance andDavid Taylor-Smith and Carole Cran received a car allowance and David Taylor-Smith received a contribution to travel.
Debajit Das received an overseas secondment package to cover housing, travelallowance, Company-funded car, fuel allowance, utilities allowance, a contribution toschool fees and reimbursement of certain taxes.
Asterios Satrazemis was entitled to a repatriation allowance to cover the cost ofreturning to the USA from Australia which included anaccommodation allowance and contribution to school fees.
This allowance stopped in February 2014.
He also received the benefitof a Company-funded car and fuel allowance and reimbursement of certain taxes.
The following table shows those benefits that the Committee considers significant: Executive Director Car fuel Housing School fees Travel Tax Other Total Carole Cran 7,042 1,200 8,242 Debajit Das 21,099 106,891 28,567 21,365 78,481 9,453 265,856 Asterios Satrazemis 21,400 6,066 1,516 26,234 10,092 65,308 David Taylor-Smith 12,000 7,935 19,935 Rupert Soames 8,551 6,491 15,042 Angus Cockburn 10,837 5,037 15,874 106 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Annual bonus scheme The maximum bonus opportunity for 2014 for the Interim Chief Executive was 175% of salary, for the Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary, and for Regional Directors 100% of salary.
The targets under the 2014 Annual Bonus Scheme were based solely on financial performance measures set against the annual budget at the start of the year.
The Interim Chief Executives Angus Cockburn and Chief Financial Officers Carole Cran bonuses were measured as to 75% against D-EPS and as to 25% against operating cash flow.
Executive Directors with regional management responsibilities had 50% of their bonus related to Group D-EPS and 50% related to the performance of their region 40% related to regional trading profit and 10% relating to regional debtor days.
Executive Directors would start to earn a bonus at threshold performance, calculated as percentage below budget, increasing toaround halfof the maximum that could be earned under that element at budget on a straight-line basis.
The bonus would then increase onastraight-line basis to the maximum, calculated as a percentage above budget.
Rupert Soames was not entitled to any bonus for 2014, as he had tendered his resignation on 28 February 2014.
Bonus payments are payable in cash, although for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 25% of any bonus would bedeferred into shares for three years unless, at the discretion of the Committee, the individual left with the Companys consent.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares that can vest in the event of gross misconduct or material misstatement of the accounts.
The table below shows the performance against budget of each of the performance measures used for calculating the Annual Bonus for 2014: Measure Threshold Budget Maximum Outcome % maximum % budget % budget % budget of element D-EPS growth 81.83p 95 86.14p 94.75p 110 87.29p 101.3 56.7 Operating cash flow 569.6m 92.5 615.8m 662.0m 107.5 536.0m 87.0 0 Regional trading profit APAC US$102.8m 95 US$108.2m US$119.0m 110 US$87.0m 80.4 0 Regional debtor days APAC 64 73 0 Regional trading profit Americas US$241.6m 95 US$254.3m US$279.7m 110 US$259.5m 102.0 60.3 Regional debtor days Americas 58 58 100 Regional trading profit EMEA US$203.1m 95 US$213.8m US$235.2m 110 US$214.0m 100.1 50.5 Regional debtor days EMEA 76 89 0 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 107 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The table below sets out the total bonus entitlement for each Executive Director for 2014: Total D-EPS growth Operating cash flow Regional trading profit Regional debtor days Total payable maximum Maximum Outcome Maximum Outcome Maximum Outcome Maximum Outcome bonus Executive Director % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary 1 Carole Cran 150 112.5 63.8 37.5 0 63.8 148,780 2 Debajit Das 100 50 28.3 40 0 10 0 28.3 83,897 3 Asterios Satrazemis 100 50 28.3 40 24.1 10 10 62.4 195,007 David Taylor-Smith 100 50 28.3 40 20.2 10 0 48.5 169,841 Rupert Soames 4 Angus Cockburn 175 131 74.2 44 0 74.2 333,203 1 Carole Crans total bonus includes the 25% deferred share element and was pro-rated for the time she was a Director of the Company during the year.
2 Debajit Dass bonus for 2014 is payable in local currency SG$175,136 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 SG$2.0875.
3 Asterios Satrazemiss bonus for 2014 is payable in local currency US$ 321,508 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 US$1.6487.
4 Angus Cockburns bonus for 2014 was pro-rated for the time he was a Director of the Company during the year.
Bonus entitlement and outcome The circle diagrams below set out the total bonus potential on the inner circle, and the outcome for 2014 on the outer circle, for each Executive Director, in each case as a percentage of salary.
KEY Carole Cran Debajit Das 63.8% 28.3% D-EPS Operating cash flow 10% 37.5% Regional trading profit 50% Regional Debtor Days 40% 112.5% Asterios Satrazemis David Taylor-Smith Angus Cockburn 10% 28.3% 28.3% 74.2% 10% 10% 44% 50% 50% 40% 40% 131% 24.1% 20.2% 108 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Long-Term Incentive Plan The LTIP awards which are due to vest on 16 April 2015 were granted in 2012 under the old LTIP, which expired in 2014.
The old LTIPconsists of two distinct elements: the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Co-investment Plan CIP.
The PSP is a nil-cost conditional award of shares which vest depending on performance against the targets: it provides for annualawards of performance shares up to an aggregate limit of 100% of salary in normal circumstances and 200% of salary inexceptional circumstances.
The CIP is a Co-investment plan, whose purpose it is to encourage executives to buy and hold shares in the Company.
Participants can subscribe to purchase Aggreko shares up to a value of 30% of their salary, each year that they are invited to join theCIP: if they hold those shares for three years, or, if earlier, the date that their CIP award vests, they will be entitled to receive a minimum award of one share for every two they subscribed the Minimum Match, plus a performance-related award of a further three shares for every two they subscribed.
The Minimum Match is not subject to performance conditions.
The PSP and CIP are both measured against performance over three financial years and they share the same performance criteria.
These are the real compound annual growth rate of Diluted Earnings per Share D-EPS, and Return on Capital Employed ROCE.
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2012 were as follows: 75% of the award was based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance wasbelow 3% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth.
25% of the award was based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 26% to 28%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance was below 26% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at28% ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements of the 2014 LTIP might be increased by between 1.3 and 2 times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period was in a range of 13% to 20%.
The performance period for the 2012 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2014.
Over the period: Aggrekos aggregate D-EPS was 285.3p, which is the equivalent of no growth.
Since this was less than the threshold of 3%, noshares will vest under this performance measure.
Aggrekos actual average ROCE for the period was 22%.
Since this was less than the threshold of 26%, no shares will vest under this performance measure.
Accordingly, only the Minimum Match will vest.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 109 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The table below shows: the resulting vesting of the 2012 LTIP awards.
These are due to vest in April 2015: by way of comparison the vesting of the 2011 LTIP awards which vested in April 2014: the vesting of Angus Cockburns CIP awards which vested in October 2014 on his resignation.
Each of the 2011 LTIP awards was granted on 19 April 2011 and vested on 19 April 2014.
The value of the 2012 LTIP on vesting is based on the average price of Aggreko shares over the last quarter of 2014 of 1522p.
The value of the 2011 LTIP on vesting is based on the market price of Aggreko shares on date of vesting, 19 April 2014, of 1516p.
Angus Cockburns 2012, 2013 and 2014 CIPs vested on 7 October 2014 and the value of these awards on vesting is based on the share sale price on date of vesting.
110 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Pensions Executive Directors participate in pension schemes or receive cash in lieu with a value appropriate to the median practice in their home countries.
In 2002 the Company closed its Defined Benefits scheme for UK employees to new joiners, and as a consequence Angus Cockburn was the only Director who was a member of this scheme during the year.
Of the other Executive Directors, Carole Cran, Debajit Das and David Taylor-Smith are members of the Aggreko Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
Rupert Soames was entitled to a pension contribution from the Company of 30% of his basic salary and other Executives are entitled to a Company contribution of 20%.
For 2014, no contributions were made to the Plan for Rupert Soames and he received a cash payment in lieu.
Other Executive Directors have elected to take part of the Company contribution into the Group Personal Pension Plan and part as a cash payment.
These cash payments are shown as cash payments in lieu of pension in the table below.
Asterios Satrazemis is entitled to participate in the Employees Savings Investment Retirement plan and the Supplemental Executive Retirement plan of Aggreko LLC, which is governed by the laws of the United States.
These plans allowed contributions bythe employee and the Group to be deferred for tax.
Contributions paid by the Company under the defined contribution plans during theyear are as follows: 2014 2013 Paid to pension Paid cash Total Paid to pension Paid cash Total Executive Director Carole Cran 22,233 24,434 46,667 1 3 Debajit Das 10,504 49,057 59,561 10,503 51,136 61,639 2 4 Asterios Satrazemis 24,984 24,984 25,563 25,563 David Taylor-Smith 47,500 22,500 70,000 11,333 43,590 54,923 Rupert Soames 64,644 64,644 202,500 202,500 Angus Cockburn 139,878 139,878 183,876 183,876 1 Debajit Dass entitlement for 2014 was paid in local currency SGD102,408 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 SG$2.0875.
2 Asterios Satrazemiss entitlement for 2014 was paid in local currency US$41,191 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 of 1 US$1.6487.
3 Debajit Dass entitlement for 2013 was paid in local currency SGD100,109 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 SG$1.9577.
4 Asterios Satrazemiss entitlement for 2013 was paid in local currency US$40,000 and for the purposes of this table has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate for 2013 of 1 US$1.5648.
Angus Cockburn joined the Company before 1 April 2002 and was a member of the Aggreko plc Pension Scheme which is a funded, defined benefit scheme approved by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
The key elements of his benefits are: a normal retirement age of 60: for service up to 31 December 2006, a benefit accrual rate of 1 30th on a final salary basis for each years service final salary issubject to the earnings cap for service to 5 April 2006 : for service after 1 January 2007 and up to 30 April 2011, a benefit accrual rate of 1 30th on a career average basis for each years service: for service from 1 May 2011, no further defined benefit pension is accrued: an employee contribution rate of 6% of Pensionable Earnings.
Employee contributions ceased on 30 April 2011: and a spouses pension on death.
As a result of opting out of making further contributions to the Aggreko plc Pension Scheme, Angus Cockburn received a cash payment in lieu of the pension he would otherwise have built up.
This cash payment was paid net of the member contributions he would have been required to pay to the scheme and was broadly an estimate of the cost to the Company of providing the benefits being given up.
The amount was subject to adjustment by CPI growth each year, subject to a minimum of 25% of salary.
This is shown in the pension column of the Single Figure Table column on page 105.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 111 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Non-executive Directors including the Chairman The Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Remuneration Committee recommends remuneration policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the Board.
Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a Chairman or Non-executive Director of the Company.
Additional fees are paid to Non-executive Directors in respect of service as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and as Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, retirement benefits or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
The fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 were as follows: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Role Increase Chairman fee 335,000 8% 310,000 Non-executive Director base fee 60,000 9% 55,000 Committee Chairman additional fee 20,000 20,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 20,000 20,000 LTIP awards granted in 2014 audited In April 2014 Executive Directors were granted awards of shares under the old LTIP, with PSP awards ranging from 75% to 100% ofsalary, and CIP awards of 60% of salary.
The three-year performance period over which D-EPS and ROCE performance will be measured began on 1 January 2014 and will end on 31 December 2016.
None of the awards granted under the 2014 LTIP are eligible to vest until 16 April 2017 except for CIPs in certain circumstances where a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group.
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 are as follows: 75% of the award is based on CPI inflation-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is lessthan 3% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth.
25% of the award is based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%.
No performance shares willbe awarded against this element if performance is less than 20% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 25%ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both the elements of the 2014 LTIP may be increased by between one and two times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over thethree-year performance measurement period is in a range of 10% to 20%.
The table below shows details of interests awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP and Sharesave during 2014: PSP CIP Sharesave % vesting on % vesting on % vesting on Face Value minimum Face Value minimum Face Value minimum Executive Director Shares performance Shares performance Shares performance Carole Cran 21,306 320,016 15,040 225,901 12.5% Debajit Das 28,844 433,237 23,076 346,602 12.5% Asterios Satrazemis 30,726 461,505 24,580 369,192 12.5% David Taylor-Smith 34,722 521,524 27,600 414,552 12.5% 673 1,164 100% Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn 52,910 794,708 31,748 476,855 12.5% 1 Face value of PSP and CIP is the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance targets including the Super LTIP multiplier are met multiplied by the market price of Aggreko shares on16 April2014, being the date of grant, of 1502p.
2 Face value of Sharesave is the market price of Aggreko shares on 7 October 2014, being the date of grant, of 1509p, less the option price multiplied by the number of optionsgranted.
112 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Arrangements with past Directors audited Rupert Soames Rupert Soames resigned as Chief Executive with effect from 24 April 2014 and ceased to be an employee on 30 April 2014.
He waspaid his basic salary and benefits up to 30 April 2014, but received no bonus for 2014.
For the period 25 April to 30 Aprilinclusive the value of his basic salary, pension and benefits was 13,174: this amount is not included in the single total figureof remuneration onpage 105.
He received the cash element only of his bonus for 2013 but did not receive the deferred shareelement.
His 2011 LTIPsvested on 19 April 2014 but his other outstanding LTIPs lapsed, in each case, in accordance withtherules ofthe Plans.
He received no compensation for loss of office or other payment in connection with his resignation.
Angus Cockburn On 29 May 2014 we announced that Angus Cockburn would step down from the Group later in the year, and he ceased to be a Director on 30 September 2014.
It was agreed that he would be entitled to his 2014 bonus based on his then current salary and bonus arrangements, but pro-rated for the months that he was employed by the Company in 2014, that is nine months, paid in cash with no deferral, at the same time as the payment of other Executive Director bonuses.
He was paid his basic salary and benefits to30 September 2014, together with a further payment of 524,336 as compensation for loss of office.
This payment represented a base salary of 400,000 for his outstanding notice period of eight months to 29 May 2015: and b payment in lieu of pension contributions of 124,336, calculated as eight months payment of 15,542 in lieu, in each case in accordance with his contractual entitlement.
Other benefits were made available until 31 October 2014.
The Company also agreed to pay for legal expenses of 6,900and Angus Cockburn agreed to enhanced restrictive covenants in favour of the Company for which he was paid 100.
The Performance Share Plan Awards made in 2012 and 2013 will remain subject to their terms and to relevant performance conditions being met and those made in 2014 will lapse, in each case in accordance with the rules of the plan.
The Co-investment Planawards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014 vested on 7 October 2014 in accordance with the rules of the plan and this resulted in his receiving 6,686 shares.
These shares are included in the table of vesting LTIP awards on page 110 and their value in the table of single total figure of remuneration on page 105.
The details of these shares are as follows: Potential %age Pro rata Scheme Terms and Performance Number of Performance Performance shares Shares Minimum Maximum Outcome Achieved Shares Pro rata awarded D-EPS 3% 10% 4.3% 2012 LTIP 7,413 14.4% 1,067 33 36 979 Performance ROCE 26% 28% 22.7% period 2012-13 Minimum Match 2,471 33 36 2,265 Total 2012 3,244 D-EPS 3% 10% 10.2% 2013 LTIP 10,956 5% 548 21 36 320 Performance ROCE 20% 25% 21% period 2013 Minimum Match 3,652 21 36 2,130 Total 2013 2,450 2014 LTIP Minimum Match 3,968 9 36 992 Total 2014 992 Total 6,686 The deferred share element of his 2013 bonus resulted in 6,105 shares which also vested on 7 October 2014.
The value applying to the shares on 7 October 2014 was 15.22.
Share options held under the Sharesave may be exercised in accordance with the rules ofthe plan.
Vesting of LTIP awards to former Executive Directors The table below shows awards to former Executive Directors which vested in 2014: Performance Share Plan Co-Investment Plan Market price on Market price on Vested during vesting date Value Vested during vesting date Value Total value Former Executive Director the year the year Bill Caplan 2,681 15.16 40,644 4,460 15.16 67,614 108,258 Kash Pandya 3,065 15.16 46,465 5,097 15.16 77,271 123,736 George Walker 2,859 15.16 43,342 4,756 15.16 72,101 115,443 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 113 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Directors shareholdings audited As at 31 December 2014, the shareholdings of the Directors were as follows: Shares A B Shares held Options held Proposed counting Shares Shares held subject to not subject to shareholding towards Current owned subject to performance performance guidelines guidelines shareholding Guidelines Date of 1 2 3 Executive Director outright deferral conditions conditions % salary A B % salary met appointment 1 June Carole Cran 8,447 75,674 200 8,447 32 n a 2014 1 January Debajit Das 39,149 125,600 200 39,149 199 Yes 2013 1 January Asterios Satrazemis 47,367 134,408 736 200 47,367 228 Yes 2013 11 March David Taylor-Smith 12,518 118,194 1,363 200 12,518 54 n a 2013 4 Rupert Soames 343,530 219,800 726 n a 343,530 765 n a 1 July 2003 5 Angus Cockburn 85,619 6,105 198,094 714 n a 91,724 230 n a 1 May 2000 Ken Hanna 19,215 David Hamill 3,875 Russell King 3,688 Diana Layfield 2,855 Robert MacLeod 18,584 Rebecca McDonald Ian Marchant 3,331 1 This includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Shares held subject to performance comprise LTIP awards over shares.
3 Options held under the Sharesave Plan.
4 Rupert Soamess holding is as at date of resignation, 24 April 2014.
The 219,800 shares held subject to performance conditions lapsed on date of leaving and the 726 options held not subject to performance conditions were exercised on 26 June 2014.
5 Angus Cockburns holding is as at date of leaving, 30 September 2014.
Details of the vesting of shares subject to performance conditions are shown on page 110.
Of the 714 options held not subject to performance conditions, 674 were exercised on 14 November 2014 and the remaining 40 lapsed.
Under the policy being put to Shareholders at the 2015 AGM Executive Directors will have five years from their respective appointments to achieve the shareholding guideline of not less than two times base salary.
Share price used 1504p as at 31 December 2014.
Carole Cran, Debajit Das, Asterios Satrazemis, David Taylor-Smith, Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn, as employees or former employees ofthe Company, have, or had up to their date of resignation, aninterest in the holdings of the Aggreko Employee Benefit Trust theEBT as potential beneficiaries.
The EBT is a trust established to distribute shares to employees of the Company and itssubsidiaries in satisfaction of awards granted under the Aggreko Share Performance Plan and Aggreko Co-investment Plan andSharesave Schemes.
At 31 December 2014, the trustees of the EBT held atotal of 824,036 Aggreko plc Ordinary Shares 2013: 1,331,750 and the holding at the date of this report is 689,785.
The dividend has been waived on these shares.
114 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Comparison of Company performance The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2014, of 100 invested in Aggrekos shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index is chosen because Aggreko is a constituent member of this group.
Company performance 500 470 450 409 408 400 363 342 350 300 250 212 200 183 185 150 155 100 144 140 100 127 100 Aggreko 50 FTSE100 0 Dec 08 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 For comparative purposes, the remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer for the same financial years is set out below: Long-term incentive vesting Single Figure of Total Annual Bonus payout against rates against maximum Year CEO Remuneration maximum % opportunity % 2009 Rupert Soames 2,555,850 63.2 100 2010 Rupert Soames 5,839,209 100 100 2011 Rupert Soames 8,501,865 82.4 100 2012 Rupert Soames 2,685,840 6.4 100 2013 Rupert Soames 1,779,144 49.6 72.5 2014 Angus Cockburn 1,290,906 42.4 5.8 Angus Cockburn was Interim Chief Executive from 25 April to 30 September 2014, and his emoluments have been calculated on the assumption that he held the role for the full year at the rates of remuneration in place on 30 September 2014.
The data for this table was taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years and adjusted to take account of the actual share price on date of vesting for the LTIP.
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO The table below shows the change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer for 2013 RupertSoames, Chief Executive and for 2014 Angus Cockburn, Interim Chief Executive in comparison to the average change inremuneration of employees within the Group central functions over that period.
Percentage change for Chief Executive Interim Chief Executive Percentage change for Group central functions Salary fees -11.1 12.32 Benefits -53.8 10.3 Bonus -43 -36 Angus Cockburn was Interim Chief Executive from 25 April to 30 September 2014, and his emoluments have been calculated on the assumption that he held the role for the full year at the rates of remuneration in place on 30 September 2014.
The comparator group relates to the employees within the Group central function in the UK 74 employees, rather than all Group employees.
As in the previous year, we have chosen this group because the Committee believes that it provides a sufficiently largecomparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, based on similar annual bonus performance measures utilised by Group central functions, whilst reducing the distortion that would arise from including all of the many countries inwhich the Group operates, with their different economic conditions.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 115 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below shows Aggrekos profit after tax, dividend, and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, and the percentage change.
Total employee pay expenditure profit after tax Dividend 1% 311m 314m 300 million 300 million 300 million -13% -1% 246m 215m 200 million 200 million 200 million 100 million 100 million 100 million 70m 69m 0 million 0 million 0 million 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 Dividends are the interim and final dividends paid in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and the interim dividend paid and the finaldividend recommended in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 The Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy in 2015 as follows: Base salaries and fees Base salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed by the Committee in December 2014 and implemented in January 2015: details are set out on page 106.
The Committee intends to next review the salaries in December 2015.
The Chairmans fee will be reviewed by the Committee in April 2015, and fees for Non-executive Directors will bereviewed by the Boardin June 2015.
Pensions and benefits Pensions and benefits will continue in line with policy.
Annual bonus On 3 March the Committee set annual bonus targets for the Executive Directors as follows: Personal D-EPS Operating cash flow Regional trading profit Regional ROCE objectives Total max On-budget On-budget On-budget On-budget bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus Executive Director % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary Chris Weston 175 105 52.5 35 17.5 35 Carole Cran 150 90 45 30 15 30 Debajit Das 125 50 25 40 20 10 10 25 Asterios Satrazemis 125 50 25 40 20 10 10 25 David Taylor-Smith 125 50 25 40 20 10 10 25 The personal objectives were set individually for each Director.
All include measurable improvements in safety indicators and agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives specific to their roles.
Those for Directors with regional responsibilities included measurable improvements in customer satisfaction, as measured by Net Promotor Scores, and improvements in regional debtor days.
We have not disclosed full details of all objectives or financial targets in this report, as we consider them to be commercially sensitive.
It is, however, our intention to disclose financial budget numbers in next years Implementation Report.
116 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Long-Term Incentive Plan Subject to the approval of the new Long-term Incentive Plan by shareholders at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting, theCommittee proposes to approve the grant of 2015 LTIP awards to Executive Directors with a face value of 300% of salary.
The performance criteria for the 2015 LTIP will be as follows: 75% of the award will be based on three-year cumulative D-EPS as compared to three-year compound growth in real RPI-adjusted D-EPS.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is below an equivalent of RPI 3% per annum growth and will increase straight-line to a maximum at an equivalent of RPI 15% per annum growth.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is less than 20% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 25% ROCE.
A proportion of shares which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to two years in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Awards are expected to be granted in April 2015.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Committee re-appointed Kepler Associates and New Bridge Street which is part of Aon plc as the principal external advisers tothe Committee for 2014.
The fees paid to advisers in respect of work that materially assisted the Committee in 2014 are shown inthe table below: Services provided to the Fees paid by the Company Adviser Appointed by Committee for the Services Other Services Kepler Associates Appointed by Russell Review of LTIP Award 69,475 Management and King on behalf of the Calculations Reward Data Project Committee Charged on a Provided the Board Advice on DRR time costbasis withspecific data on disclosure Non-executive Director benchmarking Advice on current marketpractice Benchmarking of Executive pay Advice on design of new incentive arrangements New Bridge Street Appointed by Sheena Advice on operation of 8,575 General advice on Mackay, Group HR incentive schemes LTIPand Sharesave Director on behalf of the Charged on a time cost Schemes Committee basis Simmons & Simmons Appointed by Siegfried Legal advice on 10,532 Putzer, Former Group employment and HRDirector on behalf termination of Charged on a time cost ofthe Committee employment of basis Executive Directors Except as provided above, none of these advisers provides any other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates and New Bridge Street are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and signatories to its code of conduct and Simmons & Simmons LLP isauthorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee is satisfied as tothe impartiality and objectivity of their advice.
The advisers were also chosen because of their existing knowledge of the Groups remuneration arrangements.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 117 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Statement of Shareholder voting The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy and advisory vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the 24 April 2014 AGM.
Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 169,403,517 96.71 173,519,875 98.69 Against 5,734,693 3.29 2,295,432 1.31 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 175,158,210 100 175,815,307 100 1 Votes withheld 1,249,534 592,437 Total votes cast including withheld votes 176,407,744 176,407,744 1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
Directors service contracts Each of the Directors will be proposed for election or re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 April 2015.
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Aggreko plc.
The Remuneration Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have no fixed term are as follows: Notice period Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Company From Director Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer 2 January 2015 12 months 12 months Carole Cran Chief Financial Officer 1 June 2014 12 months 12 months Debajit Das Regional Director, Asia Pacific 1 January 2013 12 months 12 months Asterios Satrazemis Regional Director, Americas 1 January 2013 12 months 12 months David Taylor-Smith Regional Director, Europe, 11 March 2013 12 months 12 months Middle East & Africa Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to three months notice from either party.
The dates of the Chairmans and Non-executive Directors appointments who served during the reporting period were as follows: Unexpired term as at Non-executive Director Position Effective date of contract 31December2014 1 Ken Hanna Chairman 25 April 2012 3 months 2 Russell King Non-executive Director 2 February 2012 1 month Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director 1 February 2015 n a Diana Layfield Non-executive Director 1 May 2012 4 months 1 Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director 10 September 2014 8 months Rebecca McDonald Non-executive Director 1 October 2012 9 months Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 November 2013 1 year 10 months 1 Replaces earlier contract.
2 Extended for a further term of one year with effect from 2 February 2015.
This Report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board Russell King Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 March 2015 118 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014
