Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement on remuneration Following a review with a recently refreshed Board, our objective Introduction is to ensure that executive compensation is designed to incentivise I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration report for behaviour and performance that will deliver sustainable growth and 2014 which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee value over the longer term, with a closer and more transparent link the Committee and approved by the Board.
between performance targets and strategy, and structural changes to bring policy in line with best practice.
As reported last year, the Committee decided to review executive remuneration in two stages because of the Board refreshment The Committee has determined that the policy should achieve closer programme that was underway and the importance of ensuring alignment with the interests of shareholders by making performance remuneration is linked to strategy and the risk profile of the Company.
related pay a greater proportion of overall total pay, having a longer term The refreshment process, which is now complete, resulted in 3 new focus, and with a more significant share based element.
The Committee directors being appointed last year, including the Chairman of the Board, will continue to set stretching targets as it historically has done.
as well as 2 non-executive directors who also became members of the Committee.
Two of the early priorities of the refreshed Board and Key findings of review Committee have been to carry out a strategy review and conclude The Committee was assisted in its review by New Bridge Street, the review of incentive pay, both of which have been done.
its retained adviser, and concluded that the overall structure of our remuneration policy has worked well, but recognised that several This means that changes to variable pay are being proposed to complete areas needed to be addressed: the proposals on fixed pay that were approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
Subject to a successful shareholder vote at this years AGM, The current annual bonus opportunity is behind UK FTSE 250 it is not intended that shareholders will be asked to approve another market levels and significantly below comparable US peers and remuneration policy before 2018.
It is worth pointing out that the last the LTIP provision is also below US peers.
This is particularly relevant review, prior to the current 2 stage review, was carried out more than for Elementis given that: i the current Chief Executive and both 5years ago and remuneration practices have developed considerably Business Presidents are nationals of and based in the US, and since then, such as the introduction of bonus deferral, post-vesting ii the Committee desires to have the potential flexibility to structure holding periods for long term incentives and recovery and withholding appropriate packages for new senior executives where recruited provisions.
Presenting a revised remuneration policy for approval at the from the US, with a higher proportion of variable pay if necessary.
2015 AGM allows the Committee to incorporate these new best practice Addressing this matter is a priority for the Committee.
features, as well as make the changes proposed.
Supporting investors desire for greater alignment through share ownership, more incentive pay should be delivered in shares, The revised remuneration policy, if approved, will be effective from the with more deferral, a stronger share ownership requirement date of approval and apply to the 2015 bonus scheme and LTIP awards.
and a post-vesting holding period for LTIP awards.
Legacy defined benefits pension arrangements need to be fully Background to the proposed changes transitioned to defined contribution arrangements.
Under the leadership of our management team, Elementis has established Other aspects of our remuneration arrangements require updating itself as one of the leading global specialty chemicals companies, to comply with best practice such as a review of the operation delivering a total shareholder return of more than 450 per cent over of our recovery and withholding clawback provision.
the last 5 years and generating strong profits and free cash flow.
Key changes to remuneration policy Elementis has benefited from extending its geographic footprint and The remuneration policy that follows in the next part of this remuneration broadening its end markets, thereby creating a more complex and resilient report reproduces the current policy in its entirety which was approved business despite ongoing variable economic conditions.
The Group has last year and incorporates the changes that are being proposed.
been successful in recent years in leveraging its key strengths to deliver A summary of the changes are set out below.
shareholder value, making a number of important strategic decisions along the way that have enhanced its profitable growth, the sustainability Basic salary: of its operations and margins, as well as the strength of its balance sheet.
The Board is confident that the Group will continue to make progress.
Benefits: For the next phase of our development as a successful specialty No change in policy.
chemicals company, it is essential that the executive reward policy takes account of the Companys complexity and global presence, that it appropriately rewards our current high calibre senior management team and remains fit for purpose within the context of risk management and succession planning.
In this regard it is essential that the policy contains adequate flexibility, with appropriate safeguards for shareholders, and one that is capable of attracting future talent where necessary including in the US market where more than half of our operating facilities are located.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 35 Directors remuneration report continued Chairmans annual statement on remuneration continued Shareholding guidelines: Annual bonus scheme: Increased from 100 per cent to 200 per cent of basic salary.
From 2015 Maximum limits: Increased from current 100 per cent of basic salary no vested share awards may be sold, other than to meet tax liabilities, to 150 per cent and 125 per cent for the CEO and Finance Director, until the required level has been reached.
respectively, for the duration of the 3 year policy in the case of current directors.
A higher limit of up to 200 per cent of basic salary The Committee consulted with its major shareholders, the IMA and ISS may apply for new recruits to provide flexibility to attract high calibre on the proposed changes to remuneration, took on board their views talent, if required.
Bonus metrics and accrual: For profit related performance measures, targets will be set at threshold, plan and stretch level and the rate at 2014 overview which any bonus will accrue shall be determined by the Committee As a result of another resilient financial performance in challenging global each year when reviewing annual business plans and approving market conditions, the executive directors will receive bonus payments bonus scheme targets which may include quantifiable non-financial equal to 50.00 per cent 2013: 55.91 per cent of their basic salaries.
Bonus deferral: 50 per cent of any bonus paid must be awarded in Under the LTIP, the performance period for the 2012 awards ended in shares and deferred for 2 years.
Deferred shares will be met from 2014 and the percentage that will vest in June 2015 under the EPS and recycled shares held by the Elementis Employee Share Ownership TSR conditions is 68 per cent and 62 per cent respectively, delivering Trust ESOT.
a total reward outcome of 65 per cent 2013: 100 per cent.
Elementis Recovery and withholding clawback : Triggers include errors, delivered shareholder return over the 3 year period of 105per cent, mis-statement and gross misconduct dismissal for cause.
The compared to 39 per cent from the companies in the FTSE All Share Index new provisions would apply from 2015 awards, for 3 years following excluding investment trusts.
EPS growth on a like for like basis over when bonus is earned cash bonus paid and be incorporated into the same period was more than 30 per cent.
the rules of the bonus scheme.
Recovery withholding will be drafted as flexibly as possible to ensure its effective operation and may be The Committee believes that this reward outcome is justified based on made through withholding deferred annual bonus awards or future the Companys performance over the period and demonstrates that the vesting of incentive payments including a reduction of unpaid Committee has and will continue to set performance targets under both bonuses or unvested share awards including deferred share awards the short and long term incentives which it considers to be meaningful or to seek recovery of sums already paid or transferred to the and appropriately stretching.
employee from their personal funds.
Deferred shares would accrue dividends in cash or further shares 2015 policy implementation during the 2 year deferral period and be paid in the normal manner The following summarises the application of our remuneration policy in to the registered holder if it is held in the ESOT for further remittance the current year some of which may be subject to shareholder approval to a beneficial owner as appropriate.
For conditional awards and at the AGM : options, dividends would be paid when shares are delivered.
Deferred shares are only forfeitable in the event of dismissal In line with the existing policy, the Committee awarded David Dutro for cause.
and Brian Taylorson each a salary increase of 3 per cent with effect from January 2015, which is in line with the increase for the US, Long term incentive plan LTIP UK and European workforces.
Grant levels will be increased to 175 per cent of basic salary for The annual bonus scheme will generally operate on the same basis both the CEO and the Finance Director.
The new policy limit of as in 2014 up to the proposed limits for the current directors and 175 per cent will apply to current directors for the duration of the incorporating the new provisions described above, except for 3 year policy.
A new higher limit of up to 250 per cent of basic a few adjustments.
salary is introduced for new recruits to provide flexibility to attract i T he existing 75:25 weighting in respect of the EPS and average high calibre talent and this will be the shareholder approved limit working capital AWC metrics will be adjusted to 80:20 and the under the amended LTIP rules.
EPS metric will be replaced with PBT defined as Group profit Post-vesting holding period of 2 years: Shares may not be sold when before tax before any exceptional items.
The Committee discussed awards vest other than sufficient to meet tax and social security the appropriateness of maintaining EPS as the profit based liabilities.
The balance of shares would be held under the ESOT.
measure for short term performance and has decided that PBT Recovery and withholding clawback : Features and operation would be a better measure of trading performance.
This thinking to apply on a similar basis as described for the bonus scheme.
follows a review of market practice on the most common metrics Dividends: As for deferred shares under the bonus scheme.
In the used and the trend by FTSE 350 industrial companies to utilise a case of nil cost options, dividends will only accrue on vested shares profit based measure rather than EPS for the short term incentive, to the extent they are paid during the 3 year vesting period.
while retaining EPS under the long term incentive.
A separate resolution to approve changes to the LTIP rules will be ii I n line with previous practice, targets for the new PBT metric proposed at the AGM.
These will include the change to the individual will be set at threshold, plan and stretch levels, with threshold limit and in respect of the new withholding and recovery, dividend normally being the prior year result and plan and stretch targets and post-vesting holding period provisions.
set at levels considered to be appropriately challenging.
Due to commercial sensitivity, it is the Committees normal practice to only Pension: disclose these bonus targets retrospectively which it will continue The only change concerns the value of annual benefit cash salary to do.
Bonus accrual remains unchanged and would be 0 per cent supplement payable to the Finance Director from 1December 2015 and 100 per cent at threshold and stretch, respectively, with which is a reduction from 74 per cent to 30 per cent of his basic salary, straight line vesting in between.
to bring this legacy arrangement more in line with market practice.
36 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information iii Un der the AWC condition, it is proposed that the single target The Committee has considered the above changes carefully and is structure introduced last year will be retained for 2015.
The reason satisfied that changes to incentive opportunity for current directors will for doing so is because the Committee considers that current ensure that packages remain fair and market competitive.
The flexibility AWC performance levels are already strong relative to industry afforded by higher incentive plan limits for recruitment purposes is in the benchmarks and the focus should be on growing revenue and best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
We have operating profit while ensuring that existing AWC performance strengthened alignment with shareholders through the introduction of a levels are maintained.
As with last year, the single target means robust recovery and withholding provision both in the annual bonus and achievement of the target would result in that component of bonus the long term plan, a higher share ownership requirement, deferred share opportunity subject to the AWC condition vesting in full, subject to bonus element and a holding period for vested LTIP awards.
a PBT over-ride, such that AWC is not triggered unless PBT at plan is met.
The actual AWC target will also be disclosed retrospectively.
We are committed to structuring our remuneration policy in line with UK LTIP awards up to the proposed 175 per cent limit for current market practice even if, quantum wise, there may be a need to compete directors to be made after the 2015 AGM will be subject to for senior executive talent in other markets, such as in the US.
the same mix of challenging EPS and TSR based performance conditions split 50:50 as the awards made in 2014.
The Committee Your directors were very pleased to receive a significant level of support reviewed both metrics and considers them to be appropriate.
In for our Remuneration report from shareholders at last years AGM for the case of the EPS targets, these remain appropriately challenging both our remuneration policy and the rest of the remuneration report.
based on internal growth plans, but the Committee will continue to On behalf of the directors, I thank you for your continuing support.
be keep the EPS range under annual review to ensure it continues to remain appropriate.
The revised pension benefit limit will be applied to Brian Taylorson Signed on behalf of the Board by: from 1 December 2015 when his current arrangements expire.
Link between strategy and remuneration Ultimately, our principal strategic objective is to deliver a superior shareholder return on a sustainable basis.
The policy changes being Andrew Christie proposed should achieve closer alignment with the interests of Chairman, Remuneration Committee shareholders by making performance related pay longer term, 24 February 2015 and with a more significant share based element.
The Companys main financial KPIs are: operating profit, operating and contribution margin, AWC to sales ratio, ROCE and operating cash flow.
The selection of PBT and AWC metrics in the annual bonus scheme ensures that the focus is on trading performance and the drivers of longer term value: profitability and cash generation.
With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or ROCE targets may be used under our current policy and these are aligned with the longterm shareholder value creation and efficient growth of the Company.
The Committee has considered whether a ROCE measure should be utilised but concluded that rather than adopt both EPS and ROCE, or replace EPS with ROCE, it would retain the existing EPS and TSR metrics to keep matters simple and to provide better consistency and transparency in performance measurement over time.
The Committee considers that the main drivers of ROCE over a 3 year period are EPS, capital investment, working capital and cash flow, and 3 of these elements are already captured in the annual bonus and LTIP plans, while capital investments are reviewed on a case by case basis.
The relative TSR condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders and executives.
Summary The changes bring our policy in line with market best practice and achieve greater alignment between management and shareholder interests.
The Committee will continue to set meaningful performance targets that are appropriately challenging for both short and long term incentives.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 37
