Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report Effective date and duration of remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report the Remuneration policy report sets out the remuneration policy for the directors of the Company that is being put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
Subject to receiving majority shareholder support, this Remuneration policy report will be effective from the date of approval at the AGM on 22 April 2015.
Link between policy, strategy and structure Our remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate and retain the executive directors and business presidents to execute effectively our corporate and business strategies in order to deliver our annual operating plans and sustainable year on year profitable growth, as well as to generate and preserve value for our shareholders over the longer term, without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The principles and values that underpin our remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all our Group employees.
It is our policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The Committees policy is to adequately reward the directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their remuneration packages.
The remuneration structure for executive directors is made up of 2 elements: fixed remuneration consisting of basic salary, benefits including for example non-contributory health insurance and life assurance and pension provision, and variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and long term share incentives.
Policy table The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying to directors.
Changes to the policy from last year are highlighted in bold and underlined for ease of cross referencing.
Basic salary Purpose Targeted at a level to attract and retain the world class executives who are essential to drive the business forward and link to and deliver the Companys strategic goals.
Companys strategy How it Formal salary review normally every 3 years, with benchmarking analysis utilised for reference purposes against relevant operates in market comparators, as appropriate, taking into account the size of the Company revenue and market capitalisation, practice complexity of the roles including changes to both size and roles and individual performance.
Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce in percentage of salary terms, subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1 January in the following year.
Maximum There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases.
The Committee will be guided by the general increase for the potential value local workforce and or broader workforce as a whole, as well as the circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2015: Chief Executive $875,500 Finance Director 338,215 38 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Benefits Purpose To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
and link to Companys Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption.
strategy Executive directors may also participate along with other employees in the Groups HMRC approved SAYE, or other equivalent savings based, share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
How it Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided.
operates in practice Provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, in both cases having a value that is consistent and commensurate with the executives status and seniority.
Participation in all employee savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition, benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
Maximum SAYE savings based schemes are subject to individual limits.
These are $2,000 per month in the US and in the potential value UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit 500 per month.
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit as it considers appropriate, taking into consideration local market practice.
Annual bonus scheme Purpose To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plans approved by the Board at the start and link to of each financial year.
Company's strategy To ensure that a significant proportion of an executives total remuneration is based on corporate business financial performance that is linked to the Companys annual operating plan.
To enable incentive pay to help build and maintain meaningful executive shareholdings thereby providing greater long term focus.
How it An annual bonus is earned based on over performance against selected performance measures which are linked to operates in the Companys key performance indicators, or the achievement of strategic and or operational objectives.
practice Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results.
Payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
Bonus deferral element: 50 per cent of any cash bonus payable must be awarded in shares and deferred for 2 years.
Dividends to accrue to deferred share award holders or holders of conditional share awards.
Deferred shares or conditional awards are forfeitable for gross misconduct dismissal for cause.
The Committee may seek recovery and or withholding of bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated, or where the amount of any bonus may have been reduced or withheld due to reasons of gross misconduct.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply from awards made in 2015 and apply for a period of 3 years following payment of any bonus.
Detailed provisions are incorporated into the rules of the various schemes which govern the terms of a bonus payment and or the making of any deferred share or conditional award.
Maximum Chief Executive 150 per cent of basic salary.
potential value Finance Director 125 per cent of basic salary.
A higher annual bonus limit of 200 per cent of basic salary may apply for new recruits.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 39 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Annual bonus scheme continued Framework The performance measure s will be based mainly on financial performance although the Committee reserves used to assess the right to select other qualitative or non-financial targets including the basis of their measurement as it performance considers to be appropriate and which are aligned to the Companys strategic objectives for the year ahead.
The financial element of the bonus may include but are not limited to the Companys key performance indicators which include: Profit before tax or other measures of profitability.
Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage AWC or other cash flow indicators.
Targets for financial metrics are set relative to the annual operating plan, taking into account general GDP factors, external market data, current and past performance of the business, together with any organic or acquisitive growth plans.
For any profit related metric, targets will be set at threshold, plan and stretch levels and the amount payable for threshold performance shall be determined by the Committee each year when reviewing annual bonus plans and approving bonus scheme targets.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to introduce new metrics or remove existing ones and amend their relative weightings.
As a result, the performance metrics and weightings may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy during the life of the policy.
The profit related element of annual bonus shall not be less than 50 per cent of the overall bonus opportunity.
Long term incentives Purpose and The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism and is intended to align the interests of the executives with the Groups link to long term performance, business strategy and broader interests of shareholders.
Company's strategy When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration the need to motivate and retain the executive directors and other participants.
The number of options conditional shares awarded, up to the maximum limit, is based on the average mid-market closing price of a share on the date preceding the date of award.
How it Nil cost options or conditional shares are awarded annually.
Options are exercisable 3 years from, and within 10 years of, operates in the date of award.
Share awards vest on the 3rd anniversary of the date of award.
practice A post-vesting holding period of 2 years will apply to annual awards granted from 2015.
For US participants e. g. the CEO the award of conditional shares may be structured in the form of restricted stock units in order to comply with US tax rules on deferred compensation particularly in view of the holding period being introduced.
Recovery and withholding provisions similar to those described in respect of annual bonus payments but relating to the vesting of LTIP awards will apply from 2015 awards.
Dividend rights: dividends will accrue during the 3 year performance period in respect of LTIP awards to the extent that they vest.
In the case of awards structured as nil cost options, dividends payable would only be paid when the options are exercised and when the employee becomes the beneficial owner of the shares.
Tax rules mean US participants will generally exercise and sell at least part of any options shares that vest on the date of vesting, in order to meet tax liabilities.
This will continue to be our practice for options shares not subject to the holding period.
Awards are subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions and normally subject to continued service over the vesting period.
40 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Long term incentives continued Maximum For the current Chief Executive and Finance Director, the maximum award is limited to 175 per cent of their potential value basic salaries at the time of the award.
A higher limit of 250 per cent of basic salary may apply to annual awards made to new recruits.
Framework Awards are subject to achievement of financial EPS, ROCE or any other relevant company financial KPI and or relative TSR used to assess performance conditions measured over 3 financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made.
TSR performance will be measured against the constituents of a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
In determining the target range for any financial measures that may apply, the Committee ensures they are challenging by taking into account current and anticipated trading conditions, the long term business plan and external market data.
For any financial performance condition, threshold vesting will start from 0 per cent and for any relative TSR performance condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85 per cent.
In both cases this will increase on a straight line basis with 100 per cent vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
Pension Purpose To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
and link to Company's To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, seniority of the role and tenure with strategy the Company.
How it Policy for new recruits is a contribution to a non-company pension scheme and or cash in lieu.
operates in practice The policy for the current Chief Executive and Finance Director is set out below.
Group Chief Executive David Dutro receives an annual salary supplement of 20 per cent of his basic salary as part of his contractual entitlement and as a US employee he also participates in 2 defined contribution schemes being: i a US 401 k Plan, which is similar to a money purchase scheme, and ii a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan the Defined Contribution plans.
The latter plan mirrors the 401 k Plan except it allows for contributions in respect of pensionable remuneration over an annual compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue Service 2013: $255,000.
The employer match under these two plans includes a regular match of up to 4 per cent of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match of up to 4percent, based on age and length of service.
Finance Director Up until 30 November 2015 when his current arrangement expires, Brian Taylorson will receive a single annual salary supplement which broadly matches the value of his previous pension provision.
After that date the annual salary supplement will be reduced to 30 per cent of basic salary, in line with the level for new recruits.
Maximum The policy for new executives is for a company contribution of up to 30 per cent of salary.
potential value Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20 per cent of his salary and up to 8 per cent of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the Finance Director, until 30 November 2015 as per the previous approved policy, is a salary supplement of 74 per cent of his salary.
Thereafter, the annual salary supplement will be 30 per cent of his basic salary.
Legacy arrangements exist for existing employees.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 41 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Share ownership guidelines Purpose To align an executives interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives to participate and share in the and link to long term success of the Group.
Company's strategy How it Executive directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company that is equal in value to operates in 200 per cent of their basic annual salaries.
practice Shares vesting from share awards, or transferred pursuant to an exercise of any option, granted under any share incentive or employee share saving scheme may not be sold other than to meet a tax liability until the above shareholding level has been met.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to them from time to time.
Non-executive Chairman and directors fees Purpose To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board considers necessary in and link to order to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties Company's and responsibilities.
strategy How it Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors, having regard to fees paid operates in to non-executive directors in other UK quoted companies and the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
practice In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee.
As well as taking into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees will be reviewed annually with changes taking effect from 1 January in the following year.
Fees are payable in cash and non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The intended targets for awards to be granted under the long term The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long term incentive plan in 2015 are consistent with the policy set out in the policy incentive plans are drawn from a suite of Company KPIs monitored by table and are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on page 47. the Board that are closely linked to the financial KPIs on page 15.
The Committee considers the EPS targets to be appropriately challenging based on internal growth plans, but will continue to keep this EPS range PBT defined as reported Group profit before tax, before any under annual review to ensure it continues to remain appropriate.
exceptional items is a clear measure of the Companys trading performance and AWC encourages the most efficient use of working The Committee does not incorporate corporate or business performance capital and ensures earnings are turned into cash.
These metrics are in environmental, social and governance matters when setting targets aligned with the Companys objectives and strategy.
in the variable parts of remuneration.
The safety and environmental performance of Group businesses is accorded high importance and the With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or ROCE Committee considers that management should aspire to achieving high targets may be used and these are aligned with the longterm levels of standards in both safety and environmental performance without the need shareholder value creation and growth of the Company.
Governance standards are set by the Board as a whole.
condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders and executives.
Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external data.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards requiring out performance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
42 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Differences in executive remuneration policy compared The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the Group and to other employees is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider practice as appropriate.
Group when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader How the views of employees are taken into account Group and, in particular the employees based in the US, UK and Europe, The Group does not actively consult with employees on executive when determining salary increases for the executive directors.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in 9 different countries, with various local pay practices, which would make any cost The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration effective consultation impractical.
However, as noted above, when setting for the executive directors and business presidents apply to other the remuneration policy for executive directors, the Committee takes into senior managers and employees throughout the rest of the Group, with account the pay and employment conditions for other employees in the modifications to reflect local market practice and the level of seniority and Group.
This process ensures that any annual increase to the basic pay ability to influence Group performance.
Overall, the remuneration policy of executive directors is not out of proportion with that proposed for for executive directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive directors given it is the executive directors who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence shareholder value creation.
Reward scenario analysis Chief Executive Of cer Finance Director 000 000 2,435 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 38% 1,610 1,573 1,500 1,500 30% 1,102 37% 33% 1,000 1,000 27% 711 25% 26% 595 19% 500 500 100% 45% 29% 100% 54% 37% 0 0 Fixed On target Max Fixed On target Max Key Key Fixed Fixed Annual Bonus Annual Bonus LTIP LTIP The table above illustrates the potential pay opportunities for executive directors under 3 different scenarios for 2015.
The CEOs remuneration has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2014 $1.65:1.00.
F ixed: Comprises fixed pay being the value of salary, benefits and pension benefits and for the CEO employers matching contribution to Defined Contribution plans are included at their 2014 level.
O n target: The amount receivable assumes performance in which 50 per cent of annual bonus is payable and 50 per cent of long term incentive awards vest.
M aximum: themaximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100 per cent.
When valuing the LTIP options under the On target and Maximum scenarios, no account of any share price appreciation is taken into account.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 43 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Recruitment policy For executive director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below: Element Policy Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level e. g. if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits New directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, or any other appropriate benefit.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment for a maximum period of 12 months.
Pension A company contribution into a pension plan and or cash supplement of up to 30 per cent of salary.
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may continue to operate on their existing terms.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current executive directors but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum bonus opportunity is 200 per cent of basic salary.
Bonus will be pro-rated for the proportion of the year served.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
Long term Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors on an annual basis incentives but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum award is 250 per cent of basic salary.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board director for that financial year, the Committees policy would include flexibility to top up awards for that year subject to the overall individual salary limit based on the executives new salary.
Buy out In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited awards on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Companys LTIP up to the individual limit or outside of the LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
44 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Outside board appointments Finance Director The Companys policy is to support an executive should they wish to take The maximum amount that would be payable to Brian Taylorson for on an external board appointment, provided that there is no conflict of payment in lieu of notice by the Company for any reason other than for interest and the role does not interfere with the executives commitment cause is an initial lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary and other or duties.
If an executive does take on an external appointment they benefits described below and up to a further 50 per cent payable in a may retain any fees paid and will be restricted generally to only one lump sum after 6 months, subject to the Committee being satisfied that such external appointment.
reasonable efforts to secure a new position have been made during the 6 months following termination.
Other benefits comprise: i the sums Service contracts that would normally be payable to him in respect of his pension benefits Executive directors service contracts contain a termination notice period pro-rated according to notice period being given served, ii the cost of not exceeding 12 months.
providing private medical insurance for him, his spouse and any children under 21 for the 12 months following termination and iii his monthly car allowance for a 12 month period.
Name Date of contract Notice period David Dutro, CEO 16 January 2007 12 months The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in Brian Taylorson, Finance Director 5 June 2005 12 months lieu of notice, or during the relevant directors notice period, and may not reflect any settlement or compromise sums which are separately agreed Policy on payment for loss of office at the point of termination.
For the existing executive directors, the terms covering termination were agreed at the date their contracts were made.
The Finance Director is Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans required, however, to mitigate his loss in the event of loss of office by For any outstanding LTIP awards these are governed by rules of the making efforts to secure a new position.
Payments in lieu of notice to plan and only in limited circumstances is discretion permitted.
In such both the Chief Executive and Finance Director may be reduced or ceased circumstances, the Committee retains the use of discretion in its if each secures a new position.
In the case of the Chief Executive, the administration of the LTIP as contained in the plan rules.
payments will only be ceased if his salary in his new position is equal to or more than his salary on termination: if not his monthly payments will In the specific event of loss of office any discretion exercised would be reduced by the gross salary earned by the Chief Executive in his depend on the circumstances at that time and the performance achieved new position each month.
In the event of the death of an executive director and an award has not yet vested the Committee, acting in its For any new appointments, it is the Companys policy to follow current absolute discretion, may determine vesting from maturity rather than market practice and preclude the inclusion of any payment benefits, date of death.
If an executive director ceases employment due to injury, bonus or pension other than basic salary in the calculation of termination ill health, disability, redundancy within the meaning of UK legislation or payments being 1 years salary and a notice period of 12 months.
its overseas equivalent, transfer out of the Group sale of business or Payments will be phased on a monthly basis over the remaining notice retirement with employers consent a Good Leaver event and an award period and the Committees position is to ensure a director mitigates has not yet vested the Committee acting in its absolute discretion may the loss to the Company.
allow early vesting at the date of cessation rather than at date of vesting.
All such awards would still be subject to performance conditions, which Termination payments the Committee may not waive, as well as pro-rating for time which the Group Chief Executive Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may waive in part or in full if it The maximum amount payable under David Dutros contract is considers acting fairly and reasonably it is appropriate to do so.
basic salary during his notice period 12 months and any bonus he may be eligible to receive for the period he was employed, subject Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with to performance.
performance measured up to the date of the relevant event and normally scaling back pro-rated for time.
Alternatively the Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice period of a lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary, with up to a It is the Committees policy to exercise these discretions in a way that further 50 per cent payable in 6 monthly instalments after 6 months would be in the best interests of the Company and depending on the in both cases pro-rated for the actual notice period.
This would apply individual circumstances of each case.
if the Company terminates his contract for any reason other than for cause or if he invokes a good leaver reason for terminating his contract If an executive director resigns or is dismissed LTIP awards lapse i. e. upon a change of control in which the successor company is not and the Committee has no discretion under the rules.
bound to honour his service contract.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme in which Non-executive directors terms of appointment participation and payments are made subject to the discretion of the Non-executive directors are appointed for a 3 year term, subject to annual Committee.
However, under his service contract, the Chief Executive re-election by shareholders.
For non-executive directors who have served may be eligible to receive a bonus relating to the Companys financial for 9 years or more, they may be appointed for a further year at a time.
performance during his 12 month notice period, provided all performance Each letter of appointment provides that the directors appointment can conditions have been met.
Where the Committee has any discretion, its be terminated by the Company on 6 months notice on any grounds policy is to exercise any discretion in the Companys best interests and without claim for compensation.
depending on the individual circumstances of each case.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, Following the introduction of bonus deferral requirements, the rules bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on of the annual bonus scheme will be amended to incorporate the his her own remuneration.
deferral requirement as well as recovery and withholding provisions as summarised in the remuneration policy table.
The rules will include The table below provides further details of the letters of appointment a discretion for the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to waive that the non-executive directors held with the Company during 2014. deferral on the occurrence of a Good Leaver event.
Date of Date of last Date of Under the amended rules of the LTIP, the holding period will apply to Name appointment reappointment expiry all participants who receive awards unless the Committee determines Non-executive directors otherwise in its discretion, for example for awards made to below Board 1 A Duff 01 04 14 N A 19 04 17 level participants.
The holding period will expire on the earlier of 2 years A Christie 11 08 08 11 08 14 10 08 17 and the date of specific events, such as a Good Leaver event or a change S Good 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 of control, although the Committee does have a discretion to end the A Hyland 01 06 13 N A 31 05 16 holding period for any other reason.
This discretion will not be applied 2 N Salmon 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 in a way that creates adverse tax consequences for US participants.
Past directors 3 I Brindle 06 06 05 06 06 14 For US participants, grants under the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus 3 Plan will be treated as restricted stock units so as to result in deferral K Matthews 16 02 05 16 02 14 of US income taxation until the shares are delivered to the participants.
1 Appointed non-executive director, Deputy Chairman and Chairman-designate However, US social security tax will apply to the value of the grants at on 1 April 2014 and independent non-executive Chairman following the 2014 vesting but not again on delivery of the shares.
In order to avoid adverse AGM on 24 April 2014.
US tax consequences, certain of the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus 2 Appointed non-executive director on 20 October 2014 and Senior Independent Plan rules otherwise applicable to the holding deferral period have been Director on 16December 2014.
3 Ian Brindle and Kevin Matthews retired as directors on 15 December 2014 modified for US participants e. g. delivery of shares will result from any and 31 October 2014 respectively.
separation from service of the Company and its affiliates regardless of Good Leaver status.
Copies of the executive directors service contracts and all letters of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at Legacy matters the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will Once adopted, this Remuneration policy report will apply from the date be available for inspection at the AGM.
of approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
However, legacy awards or other commitments, including those made prior to 27 June 2012 but Shareholder engagement not modified or renewed after that date, to current or former directors The Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys shareholders may still be paid notwithstanding that they have only been incorporated and would consult with major shareholders ahead of any significant future by reference and not been fully described in this Remuneration policy changes to remuneration policy.
Major shareholders and shareholder report.
These legacy awards and commitments comprise the LTIP representative bodies were consulted on the changes summarised in awards made in 2013 and 2014, as more fully described in the Annual the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration.
46 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Companys policies Annual bonus and practices on directors remuneration will be applied in 2015 and The maximum bonus opportunity will be 150 per cent of basic salary how they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial for David Dutro and 125 per cent of basic salary for Brian Taylorson.
This report and the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of PBT defined 2015 AGM.
as reported Group profit before tax, before exceptional items 80 per cent and AWC targets 20 per cent.
For the PBT condition, the targets are set at Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015 threshold, plan and stretch level, with threshold being previous year actual This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes how the and the plan and stretch targets set at a level considered to be sufficiently Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy for the financial challenging above the prior year out-turn.
Bonus accrual is linear between year ending 31 December 2015. threshold and stretch.
Basic salaries The AWC condition has a single target figure which results in 100 per cent The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2015 and it was of the bonus subject to that condition vesting, except that the AWC decided to award David Dutro and Brian Taylorson with a salary increase condition would only be operative if the PBT target at plan level has of 3 per cent which is in line with the levels of increases across the Group been met.
Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
Salary as at Salary as at The Committee considers that the targets themselves are commercially 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Increase sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective David Dutro $875,500 $850,000 3% basis in next years Directors remuneration report.
Brian Taylorson 338,215 328,364 3% All employee share plans Pension and benefits Executive directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee For the year to 31 December 2015, David Dutro will continue to participate share plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
in the pension arrangements and receive the same benefits as for 2014 as set out in the Remuneration policy report.
As explained in last years Annual Report, Brian Taylorson will receive an annual salary supplement of 74 per cent of his basic salary in lieu of any other pension benefits until 30 November 2015 following his 60th birthday after which this salary supplement will reduce to 30 per cent of his basic salary.
His other benefits for 2015 will be the same as that for 2014 as set out in the Remuneration policy report.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 47 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued LTIP Non-executive directors remuneration For the year to 31 December 2015, the CEOs and the Finance Directors For the year to 31 December 2015, the fees payable to the Chairman and awards will be 175 per cent of their basic salaries.
non-executive directors will be the same as for 2014 as shown below: The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards to be 2015 2014 granted in the current year are the same as for 2014 as set out below.
Chairman 175,000 175,000 For the EPS condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear Non-executive director 46,000 46,000 scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS growth of Additional fees: RPI 4 per cent to RPI 10 per cent, respectively.
For the TSR condition, Senior Independent Director 8,000 8,000 the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear scale from 3.85 per cent Chairman of Audit or Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 to 100 per cent for median to upper quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR condition will be measured against the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting 100% vesting above 10% p. a.
0 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% Average EPS growth above RPI % p. a. Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting 100% vesting at Upper quartile or better 100 80 60 40 20 No vesting below Median 3.85% vesting at Median 0 Median Upper quartile Elementiss position relative to the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts 48 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration payable to directors for 2014 Although the Company reports its results in US dollars the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the majority of the directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
His pension comprises 20 per cent of his salary and employer contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
2 Brian Taylorsons pension comprises a single salary supplement of 74 per cent of his salary, equivalent to the value of his previous pension arrangements.
3 Andrew Duff joined the Board on 1 April 2014 as Deputy Chairman and Chairman-designate becoming Chairman following the 2014 AGM on 24 April 2014.
Ian Brindle resigned as Chairman but remained a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director until his retirement on 15 December 2014.
Each received on a pro-rated basis the Chairmans fee 175,000 p. a. and the non-executive director fee 46,000 p. a.. Ian Brindle also received the Senior Independent Director fee 8,000 p. a. from the 2014 AGM up to his retirement from the Board.
4 Steve Good joined the Board on 20 October 2014 as a non-executive director and received the non-executive director fee 46,000 p. a. on a pro-rated basis.
5 Nick Salmon joined the Board on 20 October 2014 as a non-executive director and became Senior Independent Director on 16December 2014.
He received the non-executive director fee 46,000 p. a. and Senior Independent Director fee 8,000 p. a. on a pro-rated basis.
6 Kevin Matthews, who retired from the Board on 31 October 2014, received 10 months of the non-executive director fee 46,000p.
a.. 7 The salary fees figure reported above for 2013 has been restated as it only includes those directors who held office during 2014.
In addition, as required by UK remuneration reporting regulations, the valuations of the executive directors LTIP awards for 2013 have been restated using the actual share price on date of vesting.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 49 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Determination of annual bonus outcome for performance in 2014 This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2014 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the resultant payments to directors.
The bonus targets were tested against the full year results and the full year bonus payment will be paid in February March 2015.
The maximum full year bonus opportunity was 100 per cent of basic salary.
FY 2014 bonus Bonus received as % Relative plan targets of basic salary weighting of performance Actual Chief Finance Full year bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch result Executive Director EPS cents 75% 23.0 24.3 25.7 24.8 50.0% 50.0% AWC % 25% 20.4 21.0 nil% nil% Total full year payment 100% 50.0% 50.0% Bonus payments under the EPS performance condition last year increased on a linear basis with 0 per cent payable for threshold performance and 100 per cent for stretch performance.
No discretion was exercised in respect of the above payments and there were no deferral requirements under the 2014 bonus scheme rules.
Directors share based awards Determination of 2012 LTIP awards The awards made in 2012, shown in the table opposite headed Directors share and scheme interests, have a vesting date of 27 June2015.
The performance conditions EPS and TSR, split 50:50 relate to performance over the 3 financial years ended 31December2014.
Under the EPS condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if EPS grew during the 3 financial years ended 2014 by an average of RPI 10 per cent p. a. or more.
Under the TSR condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts in the 3 financial years ended 31December2014 was at or above upper quartile.
Over the performance period, the Companys EPS grew by 31.7 per cent versus 37.6 per cent needed for full vesting and its TSR performance was 105 per cent which placed it at the 35th percentile of companies in the FTSE All Share index.
Accordingly, 64.86 per cent of the 2012 awards, subject to continued employment, will vest on 27 June 2015.
For the purpose of the calculation of the LTIP component of the total remuneration figure in the table on page 49, the awards have been valued using the average mid-market closing share price for the 3 months period from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014.
LTIP awards granted in the year LTIP awards made in 2014 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 over the 3 years to 31 December 2016.
The vesting schedule and the performance conditions are the same as for the awards to be made in 2015 as shown on page 48.
The end A summary of Type Face value of date of the performance of share Number award at grant Percentage that would vest performance targets and 1 award Grant date of awards 000s at threshold performance period measures David Dutro Nil cost option 01.04.14 267,507 766 0 per cent of the award subject to the EPS condition and 3.85 per cent of the award subject to the TSR condition 31.12.16 As above Brian Taylorson Nil cost option 01.04.14 193,663 555 0 per cent of the award subject to the EPS condition and 3.85 per cent of the award subject to the TSR condition 31.12.16 As above 1 For David Dutro this equates to 150 per cent of basic salary and for Brian Taylorson this equates to 174 per cent of his basic salary.
The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 286.50p being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings based share schemes are shown in the table opposite.
Sourcing shares for our share plans Employee share plans comply with the Investment Association previously ABI guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital over any 10 year period, with a further limitation of 5 per cent in any 10 year period on discretionary plans.
Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Companys headroom for all plans is 4.6per cent and for discretionary plans 4.0per cent of issued share capital.
Savings based share options schemes are not subject to performance conditions.
David Dutros options are held under the US sharesave scheme and would ordinarily vest on the second anniversary of the grant date and expire 3 months thereafter.
During 2014 he was granted 9,523 savings based options.
The option price shown is based on the mid-market closing share price on the date of grant, giving a face value of 23.1k.
The options granted to Brian Taylorson during 2014 are 3 year options held under the UK SAYE scheme and would ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and expire 6 months thereafter.
The option price shown is based on the average mid-market closing share price for the 5 days preceding the date of grant, giving a face value of 18k.
Further details on these schemes are show in Note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements on page 90.
B. LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The same EPS growth and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, as described in the Remuneration policy report.
These options ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
C. Interest in shares, including of connected persons.
1 David Dutro retained 12,502 shares in 2014 2013: 4,929 following the exercise of savings based share options granted in 2012, the remaining 642 shares lapsed due to currency movements between the grant and exercise dates.
The price on the date of exercise was 252.10pence per share resulting in a notional gain of c. 6.5k.
In addition, he exercised and sold 451,350 shares granted under the LTIP in 2011 which vested in full at a price of 277.60pence per share, with a pre-tax gain of c. 1.25m.
2 Brian Taylorson retained 43,778 shares 2013: 68,904 following the exercise of 43,778 shares granted under the UK SAYE scheme in 2009.
The price on the date of exercise was 255.5 pence per share resulting in a notional gain of c. 96.3k.
In addition, he exercised and sold 343,951 shares granted under the LTIP in 2011 which vested in full at a price of 277.60pence per share, with a pre-tax gain of c. 0.95m.
3 Shares shown are held from the beginning of the year up until the dates of their retirement.
4 Guideline holding at 31 December 2014 was 100 per cent of salary but is changing to 200 per cent of salary from 2015.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 was 261.8 pence 2013: 268.9 pence and the range during 2014 was 227.6pence to 297.8 pence 2013: 210.2 pence to 275.0 pence.
As at 24 February 2015, the Trustee of the Companys ESOT held no shares 2013: nil.
As executive directors, David Dutro and Brian Taylorson, as potential beneficiaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
As at 24 February 2015, no person who was then a directorhad any interest in any derivative or other financial instrumentrelating tothe Companysshares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of  had such an interest.
Between 31December 2014 and 24 February 2015 there wasno change in the relevant interestsofany such directors nor, sofar as the Company is aware, in the relevant interestsof anyof .
Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the directors had an interest in any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Retirement benefits The table below shows the breakdown of the retirement benefits of the executive directors, comprising employer contributions to defined contribution plans, benefits under defined benefit schemes and salary supplements paid in cash.
The amount shown for David Dutro under defined contribution plans reflects total employer contributions in 2014.
The amounts paid under these plans were 52,206 2013: 47,460 equivalent to 6.0 per cent 2013: 6.0 per cent of his total pensionable remuneration in 2014.
The payment of a salary supplement is explained in the Remuneration policy report on page 41.
In addition, as a US salaried executive director, David Dutro participated in the Elementis Career Reward Retirement Plan ECRRP for US employees.
On 1 May 2006, the plan was frozen closed to future accruals.
The ECRRP is a cash balance retirement plan which falls under the category of defined benefit pension plans in the US.
As the plan is closed to future accruals, participants account balances are no longer credited with contributions, however, interest is credited each year at the US Treasury 30 year bond rate.
David Dutros accrued benefits under this plan are also shown in the table.
David Dutros normal retirement date under all his pension arrangements is 65.
The normal pensionable retirement age under the DB scheme for Brian Taylorson is 60.
Directors retirement benefits Defined contribution plans Salary supplements Defined benefit schemes HMRC notional Accrued Accrued Contractual earnings cap benefits benefits 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 31.12.14 31.12.13 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 David Dutro 52 47 103 99 9 9 1 2 Brian Taylorson 243 29 152 56 55 1 The benefit shown is in line with the policy approved last year which is equivalent to 74 per cent of his salary.
2 The change in accrued benefit is due to statutory revaluation rather than any accrual of benefits over the year.
52 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Total shareholder return performance and change in CEOs pay Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below illustrates the Companys total shareholder return for the The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group 6 years ended 31December2014, relative to the FTSE 250 Index, along together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2014 and the with a table illustrating the change in CEO pay over the same period.
table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
Remuneration against distributions 2014 2013 As the Companys shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph million million change below looks at the total return to 31 December 2014 of 100 invested in Remuneration paid to all employees Elementis on 31December2008 compared with that of the total return see note 8 to the Consolidated of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was selected for the 1 financial statements 66.8 67.1 -0.4% purpose of providing a relative comparison of performance because the Company is a member of it.
2 Total dividends paid in the year 38.8 38.0 2.0% TSR Performance rebased to 100 1 The amounts for 2014 and 2013 have been converted from dollars into pounds sterling using the average USD GBP exchange rates for those years.
2 2014 and 2013 include a special dividend payment of $27.1 million 16.2 million and $22 million 14.4 million respectively.
1,000 800 Percentage change in CEOs pay The following table shows the change from 2013 to 2014 of the CEOs pay 600 with regard to the three elements set out below and the corresponding 400 change of these elements across all employees within the Group.
200 0 % Change from 2013 to 2014 Salaries Benefits Bonus 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Key CEO pay total remuneration 5% 4% 13% Elementis plc FTSE 250 Index All employees 2% 8% 23% All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Change in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant financial years.
CEO pay total 1 remuneration 000s 576 1,031 2,964 3,560 2,252 1,552 Statement of shareholder voting The resolutions to approve the 2013 Directors remuneration policy and Annual bonus award against Directors remuneration report excluding the remuneration policy were maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 81% 56% 50% passed on a poll at the Companys last AGM held on 24April 2014.
Set out in the table below are the votes cast by proxy in respect of LTIP vesting against those resolutions.
1 2 maximum opportunity 88% 0% 100% 100% 100% 65% Approval of 2013 Directors remuneration resolutions 1 Prior to being appointed CEO in 2007 David Dutro as COO was awarded ESOS options in 2006 which vested in part in 2009 as shown.
However, Votes for % for Votes against % against Votes withheld these options were underwater on the vesting date so have been valued Policy 323,393,708 97.52% 8,217,842 2.48% 6,521,006 at nil in line with FRC Lab guidelines.
2 This also relates to ESOS options that were awarded to David Dutro in 2007 which all lapsed due to performance conditions not being met.
Report 319,112,205 96.97% 9,965,840 3.03% 9,054,511 Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Other information about the Committees membership and operation Remuneration advisers Committee composition The Committees external advisers are New Bridge Street NBS who The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on page 26, were appointed after a tender in 2008.
This was reviewed again in 2013 together with their biographical information.
8 meetings were held during and as a result they were retained as advisers.
The Committee is satisfied 2014 and the attendance records of Committee members are shown on that there is no over reliance on NBS, who have no connection with the page 29.
All meetings were also attended by the Chairman of the Board Company other than as remuneration advisers.
Total fees paid to NBS in and the Senior Independent Director, to ensure that all non-executive 2014 amounted to c. 44,000 for advisory services mainly in connection Board members were kept fully informed on the operation and work with the review of executive remuneration and the Directors remuneration of the Committee.
Both executive directors also attend meetings by report for compliance with regulations.
invitation, as appropriate, although they are not present when their own remuneration arrangements are discussed or, if they are, they do not Auditable sections of the Directors remuneration report participate in the decision making process.
The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that are required to be audited by law are as follows: Remuneration payable to directors Terms of reference for 2014 and Retirement benefits: and tables headed LTIP awards A full description of the Committees terms of reference, which was granted in the year, Directors share and scheme interests and reviewed and revised last year, is available on the Companys website Directors retirement benefits.
and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors and keeping these under review.
Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP, Andrew Christie including setting performance targets.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee Monitoring and making recommendations on the design, 24 February 2015 structure and level of remuneration for all senior executives, ensuring that these are appropriately linked to the Groups strategy and aligned with the Boards risk profile.
Evaluation, training and development On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the evaluation of the Board.
Following the evaluation last year, there were no major issues to report.
During 2014 Committee members attended various external seminars on the latest developments on executive remuneration and all Board members received briefings from the Company Secretary and the Committees remuneration advisers throughout the year, to keep them updated on topical matters and developments relating to executive remuneration.
54 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Report and financial statements It is also Group policy, for employees who have a disability, to provide The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements continuing employment under normal terms and conditions, where for the year ended 31 December 2014. practicable, and to provide training, career development and promotion, as appropriate.
This Directors report includes the Corporate governance reports from page 28 to 54.
Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further Strategic report, future development, GHG emissions and R&D details are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
The Strategic report which the Company is required under law to prepare can be found on pages 2 to 25.
That report also includes information Employee communications and involvement required in this Directors report about: a future developments in the The Group has processes in place for communicating with all its business of the Group and b greenhouse gas emissions.
Employee communications include information about the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, R&D activities for new employment or workplace and to encourage them to get involved products and to improve existing products.
in social or community events.
Takeover directive disclosures As is common practice, the Company operates savings based share The management report, for the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys option schemes in the US and UK to encourage employees to become Disclosure and Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections: shareholders and share in the success of the Group.
Further details of the Strategic report, this Directors report, the Directors responsibility these schemes are set out on page 90. statement and the biographical information on the directors on page 26.
Going concern Dividend The directors have assessed the Group as a going concern, having given Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special dividend, consideration to the factors likely to affect its future performance and are disclosed in the Chairmans statement on page 2. development, the Groups financial position and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including the Groups exposure to credit, Directors and their share interests liquidity and market risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
The directors of the Company who served during 2014 were Andrew Duff, Ian Brindle, Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Steve Good, Anne Hyland, The Groups net cash position at the year end of 2014 was $64.2 million Kevin Matthews, Nick Salmon and Brian Taylorson.
Andrew Duff joined and it has access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of $100 million, the Board on 1April 2014 and both Steve Good and Nick Salmon joined which expires in October 2018.
There is a mechanism in the agreement on 20 October 2014.
Kevin Matthews and Ian Brindle retired from the for the facility to be increased by a further $100 million subject to Board on 31 October and 15 December 2014 respectively.
all of the directors served on the Board throughout the financial year.
Biographical information about each director as at the year end is Under this principal borrowing facility, the Group performs covenant tests shown on page 26. for net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth.
No breaches in the required covenant tests were reported during the year.
The Group The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set also uses various short and medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated out in the Directors remuneration report.
future compliance and these include stress testing assumptions to identify the headroom on these covenant tests.
Employment policies and equal opportunities The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer that relies on The directors are satisfied that, after evaluating the covenant compliance HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to ensure compliance modelling and the trading of the businesses, the Company and the Group with all applicable laws governing employment practices and to advise have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future on all HR policies and practices, including for example recruitment and as going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going selection, training and development, promotion and retirement.
concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open Share capital atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out in of any kind based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, Note 7 to the Parent company financial statements on page 96.
All of the citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all status, or any other similarly protected status is not tolerated.
The rights attached to them, in addition to those conferred on principle applies to all aspects of employment from recruitment and their holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles of association promotion, through to termination and all other terms and conditions the Articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the Articles, of employment.
there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them.
From time to time the ESOT It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria holds shares in the Company for the purposes of various share incentive and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced plans and the rights attaching to them are exercised by independent labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
As at 31 December 2014 the ESOT held no shares in the Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective Company 2013: nil.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all bargaining arrangements.
shares that may become held by the ESOT.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Directors report continued Directors, Articles and purchase of shares Political donations The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by The Group made no political donations during the year 2013: nil.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are also set out in the Articles.
A resolution is being proposed at the 2015 AGM to obtain authorisation from shareholders for the Company and its subsidiaries to make political The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase donations or incur political expenditure up to a maximum annual limit of its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming 50,000.
Information about this proposal is explained in the Notice of AGM within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Significant agreements change of control Directors conflicts of interest There are few significant agreements which the Company is party to Since 2008 Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a trustee of that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the the Elementis Group Pension Scheme, has been the only director who Company.
The Company is a guarantor under the Groups $100 million is in receipt of a conflict authorisation from the Company.
The conflict revolving credit facility and, in the event of a change of control, any lender authorisation enables him to continue to act as a trustee notwithstanding among the facility syndicate, of which there are four with commitments that this role could give rise to a situation in which there is a conflict of ranging from $20 million to $30 million, may withdraw from the facility interest.
The conflict authorisation is subject to annual review by the Board and that lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required and was renewed during 2014 for another year.
The terms of the conflict to be repaid.
authorisation have remained unchanged since 2008 and details can be found in the 2012 Annual Report which is available from: Under David Dutros service contract with the Company compensation www.
is payable to him equivalent to one years basic salary if he terminates his contract upon a change of control, provided that the Company has not Other information first obtained a written agreement to be bound by his service contract Information about financial risk management and exposure to financial from any successor in a change of control.
There is no specific change of market risks are set out in Note 21 to the Consolidated financial control provision in Brian Taylorsons service contract with the Company.
The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out the Annual General Meeting consequences of a change of control of the Company on the rights of The eighteenth AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the respective 22 April 2015.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise their options document sent to shareholders.
on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied and, where relevant, options are not exchanged for new options granted by an acquiring company.
By order of the Board Substantial shareholders As at 24 February 2015 the Company had been notified, in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its issued ordinary capital: Wai Wong Company Secretary 24 February 2015 Percentage of issued Ordinary ordinary shares share capital AXA Investment Managers SA 28,739,014 6.23 BlackRock, Inc. 23,211,191 5.03 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 22,734,503 4.92 Schroders plc 22,517,387 4.88 Auditors A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 22 April 2015.
Details about this proposal are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Each director in office at the date of this Directors report confirms that: a so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
56 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014
