Directors Remuneration Report This performance has generated annual bonus pay-outs for the executive directors in respect of the 2014 financial year in the range of 71% to 83% of weighted average base salary.
Further details are provided on page 57 with regards to how performance under the annual bonus targets translated into bonus payment.
The performance and matching awards granted under the longterm incentive plan LTIP in 2011 failed to meet the threshold total shareholder return TSR target and lapsed in January 2014.
The LTIP awards granted in 2012, which are based on TSR performance to January 2015, are expected to meet the vesting target.
Simon Townsend took over the role of CEO on 6 February 2014 and there was a reduction in the number of executive directors from three to two.
The Committee reviewed the appropriate package for a new CEO on his appointment and Information not subject to audit: details were provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration last year.
Annual statement Dear Shareholders, Incentive review I am pleased to introduce our Remuneration Report for A significant task for the Committee this year was to review the 2014 financial year and my first as Chairman of the the executive annual bonus and LTIP arrangements as the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
existing plans which govern the arrangements are due to expire in 2015.
Prior to commencing work on that task we Business performance and incentive impact reviewed the appointment of advisers to the Committee.
For the year under review, the business has made steady Following a detailed review of providers, tendering process progress against our overall objective, of returning and interviews we were pleased to appoint Deloitte LLP the business to EBITDA growth and creating value for Deloitte as the new remuneration advisers to the Committee shareholders, by focusing on the three key elements of the in 2014. strategy outlined in the Strategic Review, being: In considering the appropriate arrangements for new plans pub operations, to create the right environment for the Committee carried out a complete review of executive publicans to build successful and sustainable businesses remuneration and took the opportunity to ensure that through delivering sustainable like-for-like net income arrangements going forward would be appropriately aligned growth and by supporting our publicans to grow their to the Companys strategy, considering what was appropriate business: for the business and the market in which we operate and property management, to continue to improve the quality taking into account market practice, best practice, feedback of the estate through targeted capital investment: and from stakeholders and the key principles of good corporate governance.
In undertaking this review, the Committee was capital structure, by operating within and proactively guided by the key principles of the UK Corporate Governance managing our capital structure.
The Company continued to make progress, delivering like-forFollowing this review, the Committee has proposed changes like net income growth for the full year with each quarter of the to the annual bonus and LTIP arrangements.
These changes year reporting improvements on the prior year.
The Company mean that a new policy is required and we are therefore has also continued to enhance the quality of its pub estate putting our policy to a shareholder vote this year at the and invested total capital of 66 million across the estate, February 2015 AGM, but anticipate that it will then be in of which 41% was focused on growth driving initiatives up place without the need for further change for the next three from 32% achieved in the prior year.
The detailed proposals are set out in the policy table has continued to be on improving publican profitability which and in the forward looking section of the Annual Report on has helped deliver a 16% reduction in business failures in Remuneration, but the high level changes are as follows: the year under review.
In addition, on 7 October 2014 the Company successfully completed the partial refinancing of maintain the current annual bonus structure, with a slight the 2018 corporate bonds and a new revolving bank facility, change to the way that the deferral mechanism works which together provide a smoother and extended debt and broadly maintain the same performance measures, maturity profile with a reduced overall cost of borrowing and as the Committee wants to ensure that EPS growth improved flexibility.
44 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 continues to be a KPI which is reflected within the variable The Committee believes these changes are in the best pay arrangements of the directors.
We are increasing interests of the Company and fully support the execution of the policy maximum award for the CFO to bring it in line Enterprises strategy.
with the policy maximum award of the CEO as we do not The Committee recognises the expectations of our believe that there should be a difference in policy for these shareholders on executive pay and we were pleased that the two key individuals in the business, but at this stage we 2013 Directors Remuneration Report received a 99.29% vote are not proposing to increase the actual size of the award in favour at the last AGM and the policy report a 99.84% vote and this will be maintained at 100% of salary: in favour.
Shareholders are invited to approve the Directors for the 2015 LTIP, remove the co-invest matching Remuneration Policy, Annual Report on Remuneration arrangement and use a single long-term incentive award and this Annual Statement and the new executive and allwhich will be linked to relative TSR and ROCE metrics, employee share plans at the AGM on 5 February 2015, details both of which we consider to be key measures of the of which are set out on pages 129 to 131. underlying success of the business.
The introduction of Peter Baguley ROCE as a metric is to ensure focus on driving higher Chairman, Remuneration Committee returns from the asset base.
The maximum opportunity will be increased to 125% but this is against the removal of the co-invest matching arrangement and also against stretching targets required for the maximum award to vest: extend the LTIP to the next tier of management currently a group of five individuals who make up our executive management group and who the Committee considers should be incentivised in the same way as the executive directors, although with a lower overall maximum opportunity.
We are also putting forward two all-employee share plans for shareholder approval at the AGM.
The 2015 Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme and the 2015 Share Incentive Plan SIP are updated versions of the plans we have had in place since 2005 and form part of our programme of encouraging share ownership and employee engagement amongst our staff across the business.
We remain firmly committed to a responsible approach in respect of executive pay.
Salary reviews for the executive directors have not yet been conducted for the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
Any reviews will be effective on 1 January 2015 and I anticipate increases would be modest and they will be set against the context of the Groups average pay increase and prevailing market conditions.
Other benefits, including pension provision, will be maintained at existing levels or by reference to percentages of base salary as applicable.
Given the changes to the incentive arrangements the Company will be seeking a binding vote at its forthcoming AGM on its new policy which is to take effect from the date of the AGM.
The changes are described in this report and have previously been subject to dialogue and consultation with shareholders.. Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 45 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report fixed and variable pay, ensuring a significant proportion of Introduction the overall remuneration package is performance-related: Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for considering and making short-term and long-term incentive pay: and recommendations to the Board on the: cash-based and share-based remuneration.
general policy on executive and senior management The Committee also believes that the performance-related remuneration: elements provide rewards which reflect an appropriate overall remuneration packages for executive directors balance between the performance of the Group and individual including base salary, pensions, benefits and  and aligns the rewards of executive directors related short-term and long-term incentives: with the long-term interests of the shareholders and the Companys strategic goals.
Chairmans remuneration: and Directors remuneration policy design and operation of the Companys share incentive This report has been prepared in accordance with the plans.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the The Committee reports to the Board on how it has discharged Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts its responsibilities and operates within agreed terms of and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
This report reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys sets out the Companys current remuneration policy for 2015 website or on request from the Company Secretary.
A binding resolution to approve this policy will of the members of the Committee and of the advisers be put to shareholders at the AGM.
to the Committee are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 55.
How the views of shareholders are taken into account Policy on executive director remuneration The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders.
The Committee regularly reviews the executive directors In light of the significant changes proposed to the remuneration remuneration packages to ensure that they take account of policy this year the Committee Chairman has informed major the Companys specific circumstances and are aligned to the shareholders of these in advance, and offered a meeting to Companys key strategic objectives as set out in the Strategic discuss these.
The dialogue with major shareholders in 2014 Review on pages 03 to 05.
In formulating the remuneration produced a positive response in relation to the design and policy, the Committee: metrics of the share plans going forward and feedback was considers market practice both in terms of the size and taken into consideration.
Details of votes cast for and against structure of executive remuneration : the resolution to approve last years remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 64. takes into consideration pay practices elsewhere within the Company: How employees pay is taken into account The Committee liaises with senior managers in the Group, encourages open dialogue and consults with major in particular the HR Director, to ensure pay and employment shareholders when looking to make material changes to conditions e. g. base salary levels and reviews, pension the remuneration policy: provision, the structure of annual bonuses and long-term ensures that incentive structures for executive directors incentive provision and other benefits of the wider Group as do not raise any environmental, social or governance risks a whole are taken into account when framing the executive by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour: and remuneration policy.
However, the Committee has not specifically consulted with employees when drawing up ensures with regard to the overall remuneration structure, the policy or used any remuneration comparison measures there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents between directors and employees.
it from taking into account environmental, social or governance matters or indeed any other operational financial risks that relate to the Companys business.
The Committee continues to believe that the policy and approach described more fully in the policy table allows the Company to operate the remuneration arrangements in a way which promotes the long-term success of the Company and remains both relevant and appropriate in terms of the balance between: 46 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Remuneration policy at a glance The charts below illustrate the remuneration of the CEO and CFO.
They show that the performancerelated elements of the package comprise a very significant portion of the executive directors total remuneration.
Simon Townsend Neil Smith 1,800,000 1,637,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 35% 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,340,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 35% 976,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 15% 800,000 28% 800,000 800,000 15% 23% 602,000 28% 600,000 600,000 23% 496,000 400,000 400,000 37% 100% 62% 37% 100% 62% 200,000 200,000 0 0 Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with performance performance in line with performance expectations expectations Base salary, benets and pension Base salary, benets and pension Annual bonus LTIP Annual bonus LTIP Reward scenarios Performance in line with Minimum performance expectations Maximum performance Fixed pay Salary benefits 25% of salary pension contribution Annual bonus including No bonus payout 50% of salary awarded 100% of salary awarded amount deferred into shares 50% of maximum opportunity 100% of maximum opportunity LTIP No LTIP vesting Award over 31.25% of salary Award over 125% of salary vesting 25% of maximum vesting 100% of maximum The charts illustrate the potential rewards available under the remuneration policy for the 2015 financial year as summarised in the table above.
The values assume a constant share price and do not take into account share price fluctuation or dividends dividend equivalents that may be received on the share awards.
Therefore the amounts that ultimately vest to directors under the deferred shares and LTIP arrangement may be higher or lower than set out above.
The potential monetary rewards available for performance in line with expectations under the annual bonus and LTIP are provided for illustration only and do not reflect formal policy decisions that these amounts are received.
Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying from 6 February 2014 onwards 460,000 for Simon Townsend and 375,000 for Neil Smith.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits as disclosed in the table on page 56 for the year ended 30 September 2014.
The executive directors can also participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to limits specified in the relevant tax legislation.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 47 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Total remuneration Total remuneration Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Policy table Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Core element of fixed remuneration Salaries are ordinarily reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking There is no maximum salary level set.
reflecting the individuals role and effect from 1 January each year.
salary levels and whether any increase should be offered, the experience.
Committee takes into account a variety of factors including: Company performance, individual performance, experience and responsibilities, relevant market information and the % level of increase being offered to the wider workforce.
Benefits To provide a market competitive Benefits normally comprise a car allowance or use of a motor car, fuel, private No maximum value is set but the Committee periodically monitors Not applicable.
reward package and promote the medical, travel, accident and legal expenses insurance, directors and officers the overall value of the benefits package and provides benefits well-being of employees.
The benefit provision is reviewed periodically.
at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, which may positioned taking into account relevant market levels based on include relocation costs.
the nature and location of the role and individual circumstances.
SIP and SAYE All-employee offers to motivate and The SIP and SAYE schemes are reviewed annually and if offered are offered to An executive director can participate by paying up to 500 per Matching shares granted under the SIP are subject to a holding period to facilitate share ownership.
month or such other limit as may be permitted under the relevant prescribed under relevant legislation and continued employment, but legislation SAYE and 1,800 per annum or such other limit no other performance conditions.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the 2015 AGM for the Enterprise Inns as may be permitted under the relevant legislation SIP into 2015 Save As You Earn Scheme 2015 SAYE and the Enterprise Inns 2015 Share these tax advantaged all-employee schemes.
Under the SIP the Incentive Plan 2015 SIP.
Company may match the shares up to a 2 for 1 basis or such other basis as may be permitted under the relevant legislation.
The 2015 SAYE and 2015 SIP will be used to make any awards from the 2015 AGM onwards.
Pension To aid retention and to remain Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or cash in lieu of pension by 25% of salary.
competitive in the market place.
way of a salary supplement or a combination thereof.
Annual bonus To motivate executives and incentivise Performance targets are reviewed annually and any pay-out is determined by The maximum bonus potential is 125% of salary for the CEO The bonus is normally based on a mix of financial targets and plan the achievement of key financial and the Committee after the year end based on targets set for the year.
However as has been the case since 2010 the individual strategic and or personal objectives, with financial strategic goals and targets over the current intention is to limit bonuses for 2015 to 100% of salary for performance normally accounting for a majority of the overall bonus The Committee has discretion to amend the pay-out should any formulaic output financial year.
No bonuses will be payable unless a minimum level of not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance.
financial performance has been achieved.
Deferral of part of the bonus into Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be paid on vested 50% of any bonus earned above the bonus earned for target performance shares provides alignment with shares under Deferred Share Awards in respect of dividends, Notwithstanding the achievement of the performance targets, any will be deferred into shares for three years Deferred Share Award, although shareholders.
including any dividend tax credit, that would have been paid bonus payable will be determined by the Committee in accordance the Committee may determine not to defer any amount of a bonus earned on vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring with the plan rules, including the Committees right to exercise its where the amount to be deferred is so small as to make, in the opinion of between the grant date and the date of vesting.
The dividend discretion fairly and reasonably in any circumstances which the the Committee, the application of deferral unduly administratively burdensome.
equivalents may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Committee considers it appropriate to do so.
Directors may be permitted to defer a greater proportion of any bonus into a Deferred Share Award.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on vested shares The element of the bonus subject to financial measures will under Deferred Share Awards as described in the Opportunity column.
be earned between 0% and 100% for performance between a threshold level of performance the minimum level of performance Deferred Share Awards may vest early in the event of a change of control or that results in any pay-out and maximum performance, with 50% of other relevant corporate event or on cessation of employment, as described on the maximum opportunity for target performance.
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of Vesting of the bonus in respect of strategic and individual objectives material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and will be between 0% and 100% of the maximum opportunity for or poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
those elements based on the Committees assessment of the extent to which the relevant objective has been met.
In addition, in the case of Deferred Share Awards granted in respect of bonuses from 2015 onwards, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the award date, Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and the Committee may reduce or cancel a Deferred Share Award or impose further performance against them are provided on page 57 of the Annual conditions on such an award in the event of material misstatement of results, a Report on Remuneration, together with details of the bonus metrics material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
to be used for the forthcoming financial year.
48 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Policy table Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Core element of fixed remuneration Salaries are ordinarily reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking There is no maximum salary level set.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 49 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics LTIP To motivate executives and The Committee intends to make awards under the Enterprise Inns 2015 LongThe maximum award for performance shares under the plan rules Performance measures under the 2015 LTIP will be based on incentivise delivery of performance Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP, for which shareholder approval will be sought is 150% of salary in respect of any financial year.
However, the financial measures which may include but are not limited to ROCE, over the longterm and to facilitate at the 2015 AGM.
proposed grant for 2015 is 125% of salary.
Annual awards of performance shares are made which are based on performance Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be paid on vested Awards will vest at 25% for threshold performance, increasing to over three years and vest after three, four and five years in equal tranches.
shares under LTIP awards in respect of dividends, including any 100% for maximum performance.
dividend tax credit, that would have been paid on vested shares The performance awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the No vesting will occur in respect of the relative TSR measure where in respect of dividend record dates occurring between the grant LTIP, as approved by shareholders, and the discretions contained therein.
date and the date of vesting.
The dividend equivalents may copy of the rules is available on request from the Company Secretary.
assume the reinvestment of dividends.
The performance measures for awards to be granted under the 2015 Dividend equivalents may be paid on vested shares under LTIP awards as LTIP in the 2015 financial year are set out on page 65. described in the Opportunity column.
Performance measures applying to outstanding awards under the Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of 2005 LTIP are set out on pages 59 to 60. material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and Ordinarily, LTIPs are subject to continued employment and vest in or poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
equal tranches after three, four and five years.
In addition, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the end of the period over which the applicable performance condition is measured, the Committee may reduce or cancel an award or impose further conditions on an award in the event of material misstatement of results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
Chairman and To attract and retain non-executive The Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration takes the form solely of Details of the current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report Not applicable.
non-executive directors of the right calibre.
The Chairmans fee is approved by the Board on the recommendation of the on Remuneration on page 55. directors fees Committee.
Fees for the non-executive directors are approved by the Board, on The fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account the the recommendation of the Chairman and the executive directors.
time commitment and responsibilities of the role and fees paid in The non-executive directors are not involved in any discussion or decisions about other companies of comparable size and complexity.
Additional fees, over and above the base fee for the non-executive directors, are payable to the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
Notes to the policy table: The application of the policy for 2015 is set out on pages 65 to 66.
Legacy share plans Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, executive directors may receive awards under the 2015 LTIP, the 2015 SAYE and the 2015 SIP.
Executive directors may also receive awards including Deferred Share Awards under the Enterprise Inns 2015 Annual Bonus Plan.
Executive directors also hold awards under the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP, the Enterprise Inns 2005 Annual Bonus Plan 2005 ABP, the Enterprise Inns 2005 Save as You Earn Scheme 2005 SAYE and the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share Incentive Plan 2005 SIP.
Share plan Operation Opportunity Performance measures 2005 LTIP Used for long-term incentive awards No further awards will be granted The performance measures applying up to 2014. under the 2005 LTIP.
to outstanding performance share awards and matching share awards Awards of performance shares Performance share awards and held by the executive directors under which are based on performance matching share awards held by the 2005 LTIP are summarised on over three years and vest after three, executive directors are set out in the pages 59 and 60. four and five years in equal tranches.
In addition, investment shares worth up to 25% of salary received by the executive directors through the annual bonus plan or acquired through other funds are eligible for a matching share award.
2005 SAYE and All-employee share plans used for No further awards will be granted Not applicable.
2005 SIP awards up to 2014. under the 2005 SAYE and 2005 SIP post the AGM.
Outstanding awards or options held by the executive directors are set out on page 60.
50 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics LTIP To motivate executives and The Committee intends to make awards under the Enterprise Inns 2015 LongThe maximum award for performance shares under the plan rules Performance measures under the 2015 LTIP will be based on incentivise delivery of performance Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP, for which shareholder approval will be sought is 150% of salary in respect of any financial year.
Legacy share plans Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, executive directors may receive awards under the 2015 LTIP, the 2015 Prior to the adoption of the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan, the Company operated the 2005 ABP.
For years up to 2014, at least 40% SAYE and the 2015 SIP.
Executive directors may also receive awards including Deferred Share Awards under the Enterprise of any bonus under the 2005 ABP is paid in the form of a Deferred Share Award, which is deferred for a period of three years.
Executive directors also hold awards under the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM of the remuneration policy for 2015 and beyond, the proportion of any bonuses for 2005 LTIP, the Enterprise Inns 2005 Annual Bonus Plan 2005 ABP, the Enterprise Inns 2005 Save as You Earn Scheme 2015 which will be paid in the form of a Deferred Share Award will be determined in accordance with the policy table above.
2005 SAYE and the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share Incentive Plan 2005 SIP.
Operation of share plans The Committee will operate its current and legacy share plans in accordance with their rules.
Share awards under the 2015 Share plan Operation Opportunity Performance measures LTIP and Deferred Share Awards may be made in the form of conditional share awards, options including nil cost options 2005 LTIP Used for long-term incentive awards No further awards will be granted The performance measures applying and forfeitable share awards.
Awards granted over shares may be settled in cash.
In the event of a variation of the Companys up to 2014. under the 2005 LTIP.
to outstanding performance share share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion may affect the price of shares, awards and matching share awards Awards of performance shares Performance share awards and held by the executive directors under the Committee may alter the terms of awards under its share plans and the number of shares subject to those awards in which are based on performance matching share awards held by the 2005 LTIP are summarised on accordance with the terms of the relevant plan.
over three years and vest after three, executive directors are set out in the pages 59 and 60. four and five years in equal tranches.
The share plan elements of the remuneration policy have been amended as referred to below when compared with the share In addition, investment shares plan elements of the policy approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
worth up to 25% of salary received by the executive directors through The participation limits under the SAYE and SIP have been increased for all employees including executive directors to the annual bonus plan or acquired reflect the limits now permitted under the relevant tax legislation.
through other funds are eligible for a matching share award.
The deferral mechanism under the annual bonus has been changed to provide for mandatory deferral of at least half of any bonus earned above a target level of bonus subject to the Committees discretion not to require deferral if only a small 2005 SAYE and All-employee share plans used for No further awards will be granted Not applicable.
amount would be deferred, as opposed to 40% of any bonus being mandatorily deferred.
The co-investment matching element of the long-term incentive arrangement has been removed and in recognition of Outstanding awards or options held this the usual annual award level for executive directors has been increased to 125% of salary, although the maximum by the executive directors are set out permitted under the rules will remain at 150%.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 51 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report As referred to in the policy table above, to take account of corporate governance developments, we have introduced a malus provision enabling the Committee to reduce LTIP awards and Deferred Share Awards in certain circumstances.
We have also introduced the ability to award dividend equivalents on Deferred Share Awards to take account of dividends paid on vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between the grant date and the date of vesting.
As noted in the Payments for loss of office section on page 53, the good leaver provisions under the 2015 LTIP and the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan have been varied to give the Committee discretion to defer vesting of awards until the originally anticipated vesting date.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event, unvested share awards will usually vest.
In the case of any LTIP award for which the performance period has not ended, the number of shares in respect of which the award vests shall be determined by applying the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time prorating by reference to the period from grant to early vesting as a proportion of 36 months.
Any LTIP award for which the performance period has ended will vest in respect of all the shares subject to it, subject to satisfaction of the performance condition.
Deferred Share Awards shall vest in respect of all of the shares subject to them.
Awards under the Companys all-employee share plans will vest early in the event of a change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of those plans.
If a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee would affect the price of shares in the Company, the Committee may permit awards under the LTIP and Deferred Share Awards to vest early in whole or in part.
Choice of performance measures The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual strategic targets.
The measures are based on the financial, operational and strategic priorities of the business and may vary from year to year as appropriate to reflect the changing needs of the business.
A sliding scale of targets is set for the financial measures so as to drive significant improvements in business performance.
Following the determination of the bonus by reference to the targets for the relevant financial year, the proportion deferred into a Deferred Share Award is not subject to any further performance condition.
Performance measures for the 2015 LTIP will be selected to reflect the Companys strategy.
For awards to be granted in respect of the 2015 financial year, performance measures have been chosen to be consistent with the Companys strategy, and which provide longer-term stretching performance targets.
70% of each award will be subject to a performance measure based on relative TSR compared against the FTSE 250, and 30% of each award will be subject to a performance measure based on ROCE.
The Committee may vary any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that any such variation is fair and reasonable and in the opinion of the Committee the change would not make the measure less demanding.
If the Committee were to make such a variation, an explanation would be given in the next Remuneration Report.
SAYE options and awards under the SIP are not subject to performance conditions in line with the treatment of such awards for all employees and in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
Interaction with the policy for employee pay There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors as set out above compared with that for other employees within the organisation.
This reflects differing levels of seniority and responsibility.
For example, there is an increased emphasis on performance related pay for executive directors through a higher annual bonus opportunity and participation in the LTIP.
This aligns the interests of directors with the longterm performance of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
In addition, for the first time in 2015 we will extend the opportunity to participate in a LTIP to the next tier of management.
52 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Service contracts It is the Companys policy that, ordinarily, the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months and accordingly, the employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
The Company may terminate a directors employment without notice or compensation in the event of gross misconduct.
Payments for loss of office In the event of a directors departure, the Companys policy on termination payments is as follows: the Company will pay any amounts it is required to in accordance with or in settlement of a directors statutory employment rights: the Company may pay salary, benefits and pension in lieu of notice and observe the other contractual entitlements of a director: the Company will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is warranted in each individual case and where appropriate, the Company will seek to apply the principles of mitigation to any proposed payment: there is no entitlement to bonus following notice of termination or cessation of employment and bad leavers will not receive any bonus in such circumstances.
However, the Committees normal policy is that where the individual is considered a good leaver, a performance-related bonus may be paid which would typically be prorated for time.
The performance measures used to determine the bonus payment may be on a different basis to that applying to the other executive directors depending on the timing and circumstances of the directors departure.
Time prorating will usually be based on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual is employed and the bonus if any will usually be paid at the normal time, although the Committee retains discretion to pay it earlier in appropriate circumstances.
If at the time the bonus is paid, the individual is under notice or has left employment, all of the bonus may be payable in cash: and in the event of a directors departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules, as follows: Plan Treatment on cessation 2005 LTIP and 2015 LTIP Awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in some circumstances such as death, injury, retirement at the discretion of the Committee in the case of the 2015 LTIP, sale of the employer out of the Group and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and reasons for their departure, good leaver status may be applied.
In the case of a good leaver: i unvested LTIP awards where the performance period has already ended will fully vest on leaving unless, in the case of an award granted under the 2015 LTIP the Committee determines it should vest on the originally anticipated vesting date: and ii unvested LTIP awards where the performance period has not already ended will vest either at the end of the performance period or on the date of cessation as determined by the Committee or, if the Committee so determines in the case of an award granted under the 2015 LTIP, on the originally anticipated vesting date.
A good leaver will normally receive a prorated proportion of any outstanding LTIP awards prorated from the date of grant to the date of cessation of employment, normally subject to performance over the usual three year period.
The Committee may decide to measure performance over a shorter period to the end of employment and may waive in whole, or in part, prorating, but this would only be in exceptional circumstances.
Deferred Share Awards Awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment if cessation is before the third anniversary of the date of grant.
However, in some circumstances such as death, injury, retirement at the discretion of the Committee in the case of the 2015 annual bonus plan, sale of the employer out of the Group and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and reasons for their departure, good leaver status may be applied.
In the case of a good leaver, unvested Deferred Share Awards will vest in full on cessation or, if the Committee so determines in the case of an award granted under the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan, on the originally anticipated vesting date.
All-employee share plans Awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which do not permit the exercise of any SAYE and SIP discretion by the Committee.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 53 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Where appropriate the Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to a departing director and make payments in respect of accrued holiday and legal fees.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Where a buyout or other award is made outside the Companys existing share plans as referred to below, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The contracts of the executive directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company or for liquidated damages.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new executive director will typically be set in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy as set out on pages 48 to 50, subject to the discretions below.
The salary level for a new appointment will be set taking into account the individuals experience, the nature of the role being offered and their existing remuneration package.
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be granted in connection with recruitment excluding any buyout award as referred to below is 275% of salary.
If an executive director is appointed at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance, subject to the limit on variable remuneration, the quantum in respect of months employed during the year may be transferred to a subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and reasonable basis.
In relation to long-term incentive and bonus awards, different performance targets, performance periods and vesting periods may be set to those applying to the other executive directors in the first year of appointment, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the appointment merit such alteration.
In addition, the Committee may offer further cash, benefits and or sharebased elements including awards under 9.4.
2 R of the Listing Rules as necessary to secure an appointment and buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer any such payments would take account of the remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer, for example, reflecting the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay or benefit element granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out or be provided according to its terms.
Relocation expenses or allowances may be paid as appropriate.
Chairman and non-executive directors All non-executive directors have letters of appointment, the terms of which take into account best practice.
Their respective appointments continue on an annual basis from AGM to AGM, subject to re-election.
There are no special provisions in the non-executive directors letters of appointment for compensation in the event of loss of office.
A summary of the letters of appointment for non-executive directors is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 64.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise as required under the regulations.
54 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Annual Report on Remuneration This Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Companys remuneration policy for directors was implemented during the year under review.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and 9.8.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The information on pages 56 to 61 as indicated has been audited.
Composition of the Committee The Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the year in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee comprised the following non-executive directors: Peter Baguley Chairman of the Committee from 6 February 2014: Susan Murray Chairman of the Committee until 6 February 2014: David Maloney: Adam Fowle from 6 February 2014: and Robert Walker from 6 February 2014.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided.
The Companys CEO attends meetings by invitation of the Committee except where their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee receives assistance from the Company Secretary as appropriate and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Advisers During part of the year under review, the Committee received external advice on directors remuneration matters from Aon plc operating through the brand New Bridge Street.
Following a review and tendering process Deloitte were appointed by the Committee to be its independent adviser going forward.
Aon plc did not provide any other services to the Company during the year under review and Deloitte provided advice in relation to carbon emissions disclosure and conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under its Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration in the UK.
During the year the Chairman of the Committee reviewed the performance of Deloitte, in terms of the quality and independence of advice, the potential for conflicts of interest which are actively managed within Deloitte and its knowledge and understanding of market practice.
Having reviewed these factors, the Committee chose to continue to retain Deloitte as its adviser in 2015.
The total fees paid to Aon plc in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were 24,372 and to Deloitte were 24,830.
The fees charged for major projects are normally negotiated in advance of the work being undertaken.
However, an element of the fees relates to sundry on-going advice, in line with Deloittes role to provide on-going support to the Committee over the entire remuneration year and are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors The fee policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors for the year under review was as follows: Chairman 200,000 Base Board fee 55,500 Additional fees for chairing the Audit or Remuneration Committee 6,000 Additional fees for the Senior Independent Directorship 2,000 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 55 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report The following information has been subject to audit: Remuneration outcomes during 2014 The table below sets out the remuneration received receivable in relation to the year ended 30 September 2014.
ii This comprises either direct contributions to personal pension arrangements or cash in lieu of directors pension contributions these sums are not included in any bonus or share incentive award calculations.
Of the amounts shown, the element for 2014 relating to salary supplements in lieu of contributions are 83,000 2013: 46,000 for Simon Townsend, 70,000 2013: 46,000 for Neil Smith and 56,000, up until he ceased to be a director, 2013: 110,000 for Ted Tuppen.
iii The 2014 bonuses were payable based on EPS performance and individual strategic targets.
Bonus pay-outs ranged from 71% to 83% of salary.
The bonuses are payable in a mixture of cash and deferred shares.
With the agreement of the Committee, Simon Townsend and Neil Smith have elected to take 40% of the bonus as deferred shares 2013: Simon Townsend 100% and Neil Smith 40%.
Ted Tuppen elected to take the whole award in shares 2013 100%.
Deferred shares ordinarily vest after three years and are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Ted Tuppens award is exercisable immediately.
Details of the bonuses awarded are shown on page 57. iv The performance period for the 2010 performance and matching awards ended on 19 January 2014.
The award was subject to a TSR performance condition and the Companys TSR underperformed that of the FTSE 250, therefore the awards lapsed.
v The SIP is an all-employee share plan under which in December 2013 the Company matched on a 2:1 basis shares purchased up to a value of 1,500.
The 2:1 basis used values the matching shares at the date of grant at 3,000.
Continued employment and a three year holding period apply to the matching element.
In accordance with HMRC requirements no performance conditions are set.
vi Ted Tuppen retired from the board on 6 February 2014, and the remuneration shown in the table above relates to that which had been earned up until that point.
Following Ted Tuppen retiring from the Board, he continued as an employee of the Company until 19 May 2014, and since then was paid in lieu of notice on a monthly basis.
For the period from 6 February 2014 up until the end of the 2014 financial year, Ted Tuppens remuneration consists of 416,000 of salary or salary in lieu of notice, together with benefits of 30,000, salary supplements in lieu of pension contributions of 104,000 and bonus of 150,000.
The bonus related to the period up to 19 May 2014 only.
vii Peter Baguley was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2013. viii Adam Fowle was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014. ix Susan Murray retired from the Board on 6 February 2014.
56 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Annual bonus 2014 The annual bonus plan has operated in its current form since 2005.
Awards under the plan are subject to demanding performance targets.
For the year under review, 80% of Simon Townsend and Neil Smiths bonus and, in his retirement year, 50% of Ted Tuppens was subject to a sliding scale of challenging annual adjusted basic EPS targets, with 20% 50% for Ted Tuppen subject to challenging individual strategic targets, although no bonus is payable under this element of the bonus plan unless a threshold level of adjusted EPS performance is delivered.
Up to 60% of any bonus earned is paid in cash, with at least 40% deferred into shares executive directors can choose voluntarily to defer more of the award into shares if they so wish.
A clawback provision exists under which the Committee can seek appropriate means of redress in the event of material misconduct, material misstatement of results, an error in the calculation or due to poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
Redress can be sought through: i the lapsing of unvested Deferred Share Awards, which may result in a corresponding lapse of matching share awards under the 2005 LTIP: ii a reduction in future bonus pay-outs: and iii the reclaim of previously paid bonuses net of tax.
The adjusted EPS targets for the bonus plan were set at the beginning of the year and reflected the outlook at that time taking into account the Companys plans to generate cash and pay down debt.
The targets for the proportion of the bonus based on EPS are set out in the table below.
For performance between the EPS targets specified, a straightline sliding scale applies.
Award level % weighted annual salary EPS Below threshold 0% Less than 17.6p Target 40% 18.6p Maximum 80% 19.6p Actual performance 56% 19.0p Each executive director was given a number of different personal and strategic objectives individually tailored to their role and the needs of the business in the year now under review.
Different weightings were applied to each objective.
The precise objectives and weightings are considered by the Company to be commercially sensitive.
In summary the objectives included driving like-for-like net income performance, delivery of capital expenditure strategy and return on capital, execution of a review of the operating model and alternatives, improving publican satisfaction and employee engagement scores, managing regulatory risk and transition issues.
The achievements against objectives were considered carefully by the Committee and weightings given to each individual component.
In total, payments of between 15% and 48% of salary were generated out of a maximum of 20% of weighted average base salary for Simon Townsend and Neil Smith and 50% of salary for Ted Tuppen, on a prorated basis for the part of the year before Ted Tuppen ceased to be an employee.
The total bonuses awarded for the year out of a maximum bonus potential of 100% of average weighted salary were as follows: Simon Townsend 71% of salary 2013: 29% Neil Smith 73% of salary 2013: 31% Ted Tuppen 83% of salary 2013: 30% With the agreement of the Committee, Simon Townsend and Neil Smith have elected to take 40% of the bonus as deferred shares and the remainder in cash.
Ted Tuppen elected to take the entire award in shares and his award was prorated to the date of cessation on 19 May 2014.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 57 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Deferred Share Awards Details of the shares awarded under the bonus plan to executive directors during the year under review and previous years are set out in the table below.
ii This reflects the actual number of shares granted on 12 December 2013.
As explained in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report, this figure was previously based on an estimated market value of shares.
iii The share price at which the number of deferred shares granted under the bonus plan is calculated will not be confirmed until after the date of approval of the accounts.
The number of deferred shares awarded for the 2014 financial year is therefore estimated by using the mid-market price of the shares on 30 September 2014, being 124.4 pence.
The number of shares granted along with the grant and exercise dates will therefore be revised to reflect the result on the actual date of grant, when an announcement will be made to shareholders.
iv Upon cessation as an employee the outstanding Deferred Share Awards granted to Ted Tuppen became exercisable and the Committee agreed that the exercise period could be extended to 30 months so long as that was not later than the fourth anniversary of the grant, as part of retirement planning.
v Ted Tuppen took his whole prorated annual bonus award in shares and the full amount of the annual bonus, represented by shares, is shown here and not just the amount of bonus or shares attributable to the period that he was a director until 6 February 2014.
1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each years award under the bonus plan.
58 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Long-Term Incentive Plan The LTIP has been operated in its current form since 2005.
Under the 2005 LTIP, two types of award could be made: an award of performance shares, worth up to 150% of salary each year: and an award of matching shares linked to the coinvestment of up to 25% of salary in investment shares, which are then matched on a 2:1 basis.
Shares that count as investment shares are: shares subject to a Deferred Share Award under the bonus plan: and shares acquired by participants using their cash bonus or other funds, up to a maximum of 25% of salary.
Details of conditional awards of shares made under the LTIP during the year under review are set out in the table below.
This was 148.1 pence for the awards granted in December 2013, 76.3 pence for those granted in December 2012 and 104.3 pence for 2010.
The 2011 LTIP award is based on a notional share price of 86.1 pence.
ii Plan Year 2010 The performance condition applying to the 2010 awards was based solely on relative TSR performance, which compared the Companys TSR performance over the three year period commencing on the date of grant with the TSR of the FTSE 250 as at the date of grant as follows: Level of matching share award Companys TSR ranking v the FTSE 250 Percentage of performance share award matching award shares: investment over the three year performance period that vests shares Below median 0% 0:1 Median 20% 0.4:1 Upper quintile 100% 2:1 The performance period for this award ended on 19 January 2014.
The Companys TSR performance was below median, therefore the awards lapsed.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 59 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report iii Plan Years 2011, 2012 and 2013 The performance conditions applying to these awards are solely based on relative TSR performance, which compares the Companys TSR performance over the three year period commencing on the date of grant with the TSR of the FTSE 250 as at the date of grant as follows: Companys TSR ranking v the FTSE 250 Percentage of performance share Level of matching share award over the three year performance period award that vests matching award shares: investment shares Below median 0% 0:1 Median 0% 0:1 Upper quintile 100% 2:1 Straight-line vesting will occur if the Companys TSR ranking is between the median and upper quintile.
As with previous LTIP awards, vesting occurs in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant.
In addition, irrespective of the Companys TSR performance, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the TSR result is reflective of the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant period.
iv Ted Tuppen ceased to be an employee on 19 May 2014 before the performance period had ended and as he was retiring the Committee applied good leaver treatment under the plan rules and the potential award of shares has been reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect the number of months between the grant and the date of cessation being 28 36 for the 2011 award and 17 36 for the 2012 award.
As disclosed in the prior year no LTIP award was made to Ted Tuppen in his retirement year.
As part of retirement planning the exercise period was extended to 30 months from cessation.
1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each years LTIP award.
Directors share options No options under the executive share option scheme have been granted to any of the executive directors in the current or prior year.
Options granted under the Companys SAYE scheme are shown in the table below.
There are no performance conditions restricting the exercise of options held under this scheme reflecting the relevant legislation.
Exercise price At 1 Oct At 30 Sept Name p 2013 Exercised Lapsed Granted 2014 i Simon Townsend 24.2 61,983 61,983 Neil Smith 24.2 61,983 61,983 Ted Tuppen ii 24.2 61,983 26,860 ii 35,123 i Exercise period from 1 February 2017 to 1 August 2017. ii Ted Tuppen retired as a director in February 2014 and ceased to be an employee on 19 May 2014.
As a good leaver the potential award under the SAYE scheme has been reduced on a pro rata basis.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of the Companys shares during the year under review were 168.1 pence and 114.0 pence respectively.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares at 30 September 2014 was 124.4 pence.
Share Incentive Plan SIP During the year under review, Simon Townsend and Ted Tuppen each purchased 1,094 shares under the SIP at 137.0 pence per share 2013: 1,542 each at a price of 97.3 pence per share, in addition to shares held by them at 1 October 2013 in the SIP.
These shares were matched by the Company on a 2:1 basis conditional upon the directors continued employment.
The face value of the shares awarded under the matching arrangement was 3,000 2013: 3,000.
Ted Tuppen retired and was able to keep the matching shares, and any prior years matching share awards, which had not already been held for three years.
Details of the total partnership and matching shares held under the SIP are included in the table of directors interests below.
Dilution limits Whilst the Company has authority and retains discretion to issue new shares and or treasury shares under its employees share plans, since 1 October 2004 the Companys policy has been to satisfy all awards and options granted under the Companys executive share schemes and all-employee share incentive plans using existing shares purchased in the market by the Trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
At 30 September 2014 no new shares or treasury shares have been issued to satisfy awards or options granted in the previous ten years under any of the Companys employee share incentive plans and, as at 30 September 2014, the total number of shares held in the Trust was 4,645,712 equivalent to 0.92% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, excluding treasury shares.
60 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Directors share interests Since 2011 share ownership guidelines have existed for the executive directors which require them to build up and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries.
Executives are expected to build up the required shareholding by the later of: i the fifth anniversary of the introduction of the guidelines in 2011: and ii the fifth anniversary of them joining the Board: and they are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under the LTIP and or Deferred Share Awards until the guidelines are met.
The directors either already hold the required shareholdings under the guidelines or are not yet at the anniversary dates for them to do so.
The interests of the directors who held office during the period from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 in the ordinary shares of the Company are as set out in the table below: As at 30 September 2014 As at 1 October 2013 Beneficial i Conditional Beneficial i Conditional Deferred Deferred Director LTIP ii shares iii LTIP ii shares iii Simon Townsend 721,291 1,862,539 861,324 546,555 1,976,155 1,079,800 Neil Smith 25,000 1,578,824 639,635 25,000 1,774,341 553,231 Robert Walker 275,000 275,000 David Maloney 25,000 25,000 Peter Baguley Adam Fowle Ted Tuppen iv 3,499,716 1,461,353 1,570,217 3,496,434 3,293,593 1,835,290 Susan Murray iv 4,000 4,000 i Beneficial share interests include partnership and matching shares held under the SIP of 35,816 shares each for Simon Townsend and Ted Tuppen at 30 September 2014 2013: 32,534 shares each.
ii Full details of LTIP awards, including performance conditions and exercise periods, are set out in the table on pages 59 and 60. iii Full details of Deferred Share Awards, including exercise periods, are set out in the table on page 58.
The calculation of the deferred shares awarded for 2014 is estimated by using the mid-market price of the shares on 30 September 2014, being 124.4 pence.
The number of shares granted, along with the exercise dates will therefore be revisited to reflect the result on the actual date of grant, when an announcement will be made to shareholders.
The 2013 disclosure above has been similarly adjusted.
iv Disclosure relating to beneficial holdings of Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray is provided as at the date of cessation of employment and as at the date of retirement from the board respectively.
In respect of directors serving at 30 September 2014, save for contributions to the SAYE scheme, there have been no other changes in share interests from 30 September 2014 to the date of this report.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
None of the directors currently holds their shares in such an arrangement.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 61 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report The following information has not been subject to audit: Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2014 2013 000 000 % change Chief Executive Officer salary 523 640 18.3 benefits 28 29 3.4 bonus 398 192 107.3 Average per employee salary 41.2 40.3 2.2 benefits 3.8 3.6 5.6 bonus 5.9 2.8 110.7 The table above shows the movement in the remuneration for the CEO between the current and previous financial year compared with movement of the average remuneration per head for all Group employees.
This table is calculated on the basis of the salary, benefits and bonus of Ted Tuppen for the period while he was CEO until 6 February 2014 as outlined in the single figure total table on page 56 and for Simon Townsend his prorated salary from 6 February 2014 being 299,000, benefits being 18,000 and bonus being 212,000 which are all attributable to the period he was CEO to 30 September 2014.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the relative importance of the spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders: 2014 2013 m m % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees 29 26 12 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks 62 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Historical comparative TSR performance graph The graph below shows the TSR, in terms of change in value with dividends re-invested of an initial investment of 100 on 1 October 2008 in a holding of the Companys shares against the corresponding TSR in a hypothetical holding of shares in the companies represented in the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company has been a constituent member for the majority of the six year period.
Total Shareholder Return Souce: Datastream 240 220 Enterprise Inns plc 200 FTSE 250 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 1Oct 08 30Sept 09 30Sept 10 30Sept 11 30Sept 12 30Sept 13 30 S ept 14 The graph shows the value at 30 September 2014 of 100 invested in the Companys shares on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 notionally invested in the FTSE 250 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Year ended 30 September Chief Executive Officer remuneration 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total remuneration 000 972 1,386 1,073 1,159 1,024 1,084 Annual bonus % 18% 87% 38% 51% 30% 76% LTIP vesting % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Percentage of the maximum award for LTIP, this includes matching shares.
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO during each of those financial years.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus, matching shares awarded in relation to the SIP and LTIP awards performance and matching which vested based on performance in those years.
This table is calculated on the basis of the salary, benefits, pension, bonus and SIP of Ted Tuppen for the period while he was CEO until 6 February 2014 as outlined in the single figure total table on page 56 and for Simon Townsend his prorated salary from 6 February 2014 being 299,000, benefits being 18,000, pension being 75,000 and bonus being 212,000 which are all attributable to the period he was CEO from 6 February 2014.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 63 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Value Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Service contracts A summary of the service contracts and letters of appointments for the directors is set out below: Executive director Date of agreement Effective date Notice period Simon Townsend 31 October 2000 1 October 2000 12 months Neil Smith 8 October 2010 1 January 2011 12 months Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry date Robert Walker 9 February 2012 Terminable on 6 months notice David Maloney 10 July 2008 Terminable on 6 months notice Peter Baguley 31 January 2013 Terminable on 6 months notice Adam Fowle 6 February 2014 Terminable on 6 months notice External appointments The executive directors may accept outside appointments provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such outside appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
None of the executive directors held any such appointments in the year under review 2013: none.
Shareholder vote The Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys shareholders and will endeavour to consult with major shareholders ahead of any significant future changes to the remuneration policy.
Details of the votes cast in relation to the remuneration report and remuneration policy at last years AGM are set out below: Remuneration Report 2014 AGM % Votes cast in favour 237,648,910 99.29 Votes cast against 1,693,307 0.71 Total 239,342,217 Votes withheld 2,489,909 Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM % Votes cast in favour 235,117,668 99.84 Votes cast against 372,300 0.16 Total 235,489,968 Votes withheld 6,341,858 64 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Application of the policy for 2015 Base salaries and fees At the date of this report the Committee has not reviewed the salaries for the executive directors which take effect on 1 January 2015.
There are no changes proposed to the fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors.
The fee policy is as set out on page 55.
The two all-employee share plans, SAYE and SIP, will be considered on an annual basis and may be offered in any year subject to the limits permitted under the relevant legislation.
Annual bonus 2015 The bonus plan for the 2015 financial year will remain largely unchanged from the 2014 financial year.
The normal maximum bonus opportunity for all executive directors continues to be 100% of salary: 80% of the award will be subject to a sliding scale of adjusted basic EPS targets and 20% will be subject to personal and strategic targets.
The Committee considers that the forward looking EPS targets and the strategic targets are commercially sensitive and has therefore chosen not to disclose them in advance.
The strategic measures are focused on three to four lead indicators of performance.
Details of the EPS targets will be set out retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration along with an overview of the personal and strategic measures.
However, the targets are considered to be demanding in the context of the Companys circumstances.
LTIP awards 2015 Subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, the 2015 awards will be granted under the 2015 LTIP following the AGM.
Recognising that no further matching share awards are to be granted under the co-investment element of the 2005 LTIP, which provided for a maximum opportunity of 50% of salary, the Committee intends to grant awards of 125% of salary to the CEO and CFO under the 2015 LTIP, thus ensuring that the overall expected value of the variable remuneration package is retained.
It is intended that the performance measures for the 2015 LTIP awards be a combination of relative TSR and ROCE: Relative TSR currently used under the 2005 LTIP, this is well understood by all stakeholders and aligns clearly managements objectives with those of shareholders.
Relative TSR is a broad measure of the extent to which our strategy is considered appropriate by the market as well as the extent to which it is being well-implemented.
Targets will be set based on a point to point measurement, by comparing the three month average TSR ending on the first last day of the performance period.
ROCE a key driver of shareholder value and which reflects Enterprises planned further enhancement of a quality estate.
The introduction of ROCE alongside relative TSR therefore fully supports strategy.
In our view, this is a critical and challenging objective in the context of declining returns over many years in the pub sector as a whole.
The vesting schedule proposed is as follows: Threshold vesting Maximum vesting % linked to award 25% of the award 100% of the award Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 70% Median performance Upper quartile performance ROCE average ROCE for the three years of the performance period 30% Budget 0.25% Budget 1% There will be straight line vesting between the points and no reward below threshold performance.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 65 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report As with the 2005 LTIP, TSR has been set against a comparator group of the FTSE 250 as the Remuneration Committee recognises that a bespoke pool of competitors is small and could produce results which do not reflect Enterprises performance.
We therefore believe that a wider comparator group is a more robust and realistic way of measuring how shareholders value the Company.
The Committee considers that disclosing the forward looking three year ROCE budget is commercially sensitive and has therefore chosen not to disclose it in advance.
In addition, to the TSR and ROCE targets, the Remuneration Committee will require that awards will only be earned if underlying financial performance supports it.
The weightings for each measure have been set to balance what the Remuneration Committee considers to be the focus for management in its day to day direction of the business with its ultimate responsibility to shareholders.
Under the 2005 LTIP, performance is measured over three years: however, awards vest after three, four and five years in equal tranches.
This deferral structure is being retained under the proposed 2015 LTIP in order to continue to align executive and shareholder interests.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Signed on behalf of the Board P J Baguley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 17 November 2014 66 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
