Remuneration Report Code issued by the FRC in September 2014 Annual statement by the Chairman does not apply to our 2014 annual report, Remuneration Report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee has considered the changes This report has been prepared in Dear Shareholders, to the Code, in particular the requirements accordance with the Companies Act On behalf of the board, I am pleased to around alignment with shareholders 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large present our Remuneration Report for 2014. long-term interests and malus and clawback: and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports During the year EVRAZ performed well, Promoting long-term success.
The current Regulations 2008 as amended in despite the challenging and volatile trading remuneration policy is tailored to be 2013.
It also meets the relevant conditions.
appropriate for the current CEOs specific requirements of the Financial Conduct circumstances, namely his significant Authoritys Listing Rules and describes In the current competitive environment we aim shareholding in the company almost 11% how the Board has applied the to ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned of the issued share capital.
The principles of good governance as set with our business objectives and retains and Committee considers that this out in the UK Corporate Governance motivates qualified senior executives in order shareholding ensures very strong Code September 2012 and considered to deliver sustainable, long-term returns to the alignment with the delivery of long-term the changes to the Code issued by Companys shareholders.
the Financial Reporting Council in Malus and clawback.
The CEOs incentive September 2014 which will apply to Directors Remuneration Policy arrangements are subject to malus the 2015 annual report.
As required by the regulations, we put our arrangements, under which the Committee Directors Remuneration Policy to a binding may adjust bonus payments downwards This report fully complies with the shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Over 99% to reflect the overall performance of the Directors Remuneration Reporting of shareholders voted in favour and we were Company.
Clawback arrangements are not Regulations introduced in 2013 by delighted with the high level of support received.
enforceable under the Russian Labor Code the UK Government.
and as such no clawback arrangements We believe that our Remuneration Policy are currently in place.
The Committee will This report contains both auditable remains appropriate, and as such, we are keep this under review, should the Russian and non-auditable information.
The not proposing to make any changes this year.
information subject to audit by the We have included a copy of the Directors Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, Remuneration Policy Report as approved by In line with our commitment to good corporate is set out in the Annual Remuneration shareholders in this Remuneration Report governance, we will continue to monitor our Report and has been identified for ease of reference.
There will be no investors views, best practice developments accordingly.
separate vote on this part of the report and market trends on executive remuneration.
These will be taken into account when deciding upon executive remuneration at Duncan Baxter Annual Remuneration Report EVRAZ in order to ensure our policy remains Chairman, Remuneration Committee The second part of the report, the Annual appropriate in the context of business Remuneration Report, sets out details of performance and strategy.
remuneration paid in 2014 and how we intend to apply our policy in 2015.
This section will Policy Report be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the The Remuneration Policy was approved by forthcoming AGM.
shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
For the benefit of shareholders, we have reproduced Key decisions taken during the year the policy below.
We have updated the date The Committee reviewed the CEOs salary of the Executive Directors service contract and determined that his salary for 2015 will to reflect the date of the current contract.
remain frozen at the same level as in 2014, No other changes have been made.
reflecting the continuing challenging market conditions and low level of wage increases to The Policy Report, as approved by employees across the Company in general.
shareholders, can be found in last years Remuneration Report, a copy of which can be With regard to the annual bonus, the found on the website: http: www.
com Committee reviewed the KPIs against which upload iblock f4a Remuneration%20 the bonus is measured with regard to the Report%202013.
Companys financial, operational and strategic measures to ensure they remained appropriate.
As a result, the Committee determined that in order to simplify the bonus structure the EBITDA profitability adjustment on the annual bonus would no longer form part of the bonus assessment.
This change will be applied for bonuses from FY 2014 onwards, and has resulted in a lower bonus payout in respect of FY 2014 than would have been achieved had the EBITDA profitability adjustment been applied.
Based on performance against the pre-determined KPIs and targets, the CEOs annual bonus payout for 2014 was 77% of the maximum.
Whilst the revised UK Corporate Governance 90 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Director Base Provides a level of Normally reviewed annually, taking Generally, the maximum None salary base pay to reflect into account individual and market increase per year will be in individual experience conditions, including: line with general level of and role to attract size and nature of the role, increases within the Group.
and retain high relevant market pay levels, calibre talent individual experience and pay However, there is no overall increases for employees across maximum opportunity as the Group.
increases may be made above this level at the For the current CEO, base salary Committees discretion, to incorporates a Directors fee paid take account of individual to all Directors of the company for circumstances such as participation in the work of the increase in scope and Board committees see the responsibility and to reflect section on Non-Executive Director the individuals development remuneration policy below.
and performance in the role.
Benefits To provide market Benefits currently include: Generally the cost of None level of benefits, private healthcare benefits will be in line as appropriate meal allowances with that for the senior for individual management team.
However circumstances Other benefits including pension the cost of insurance benefits may be provided if the benefits may vary from year Committee considers it appropriate.
to year depending on the The current CEO does not currently individuals circumstances.
participate in any pension scheme.
The overall benefit value In the event that an executive will be set at a level the Director is required by the Group to Committee considers relocate, benefits may include but proportionate and are not limited to relocation appropriate to reflect allowance and housing allowance.
There is no total maximum opportunity.
Annual Aligns executive The Company operates an annual 200% of base salary per The bonus is based on bonus remuneration to bonus arrangement under which financial year.
achievement of the Companys Company strategy awards are generally delivered key quantitative financial, through rewarding in cash.
operational and strategic the achievement measures in the year to ensure of annual financial Targets are reviewed annually and focus is spread across the key and strategic linked to corporate performance aspects of Company performance business targets based on predetermined targets.
The exact measures and associated weighting will be determined on an annual basis, according to the Companys strategic priorities, however at least 60% will be based on Group financial measures.
For achievement of threshold performance, 0% of maximum will be paid, rising straight line to 50% of maximum for target performance and 100% of maximum for outstanding performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust bonus payments to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Chairman To provide Director fees are paid in the form of cash fees, but with the flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees and Director remuneration that is after deduction of applicable income tax and social taxes to acquire shares in the Company should the Fees sufficient to attract Non-Executive Director so wish.
Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed from time to time.
and retain high calibre nonNon-Executive Directors receive an annual fee for membership of the Board.
executive talent Additional fees are payable by reference to other Board responsibilities taken on by the Non-Executive Directors for example membership and chairmanship of the Board committees.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive annual fee.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
This may include travel expenses, professional fees incurred in the furtherance of duties as a Director and the provision of training and development.
In addition, the Company contributes an annual amount towards secretarial and administrative expenses of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors may not participate in the Companys share incentive schemes or pension arrangements.
Total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
The Committee reserves the right to make any Remuneration arrangements Illustration of the application remuneration payments and payments for loss throughout the Group of the remuneration policy of office that are not in line with the policy set The remuneration approach and philosophy is The chart below provides an indication out above where the terms of the payment applied consistently at all levels, including the of what could be received by the were agreed before the policy came into effect Executive Director.
This ensures that there is Executive Director under the proposed or at a time when the relevant individual was alignment with business strategy throughout remuneration policy.
not a Director of the Company and, in the the Company.
Remuneration arrangements US$7,515 opinion of the Committee, the payment was below the Board reflect the seniority of the 67% not in consideration of the individual becoming role and local market practice and therefore a Director of the Company.
the components and levels of remuneration US$5,015 for different employees may differ in parts 50% The Committee does not operate clawback from the policy set out above.
arrangements on Directors remuneration on US$2,515 the basis that such arrangements would not For instance, in addition to a base salary, 100% 0 50% 33% be enforceable under the Russian Labor Code.
a performance related bonus KPIs aligned with Companys strategy and the provision The Committee may make minor amendments of benefits, senior managers are also entitled to the policy set out above for regulatory, to participation in a long-term incentive Minimum In line with Maximum expectations exchange control, tax or administrative programme.
This is designed to align purposes or to take account of a change interests of these individuals to the delivery Annual bonus Base pay in legislation without obtaining shareholder of long-term growth in shareholder value.
The current CEO already holds a substantial shareholding in the Company and therefore Performance measures and targets does not participate in this plan.
Annual bonus measures and targets are selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising the Director to meet financial objectives for the year and achieving key operational objectives.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that the measures and weightings are in line with the strategic priorities and needs of the business.
92 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Base pay Base salary value of annual benefits provided in 2014 Annual bonus 0% of salary 100% of salary 200% of salary target opportunity maximum opportunity Policy on recruitment of executive Directors To facilitate recruitment the Committee The CEOs service contract does not provide In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, may need to compensate loss of for any specific notice period and therefore, remuneration would be determined in line remuneration arrangements on joining the in the event of termination, the applicable with the following policy.
This policy has been company.
In granting any buyout award, notice period will be as provided for as in the developed to enable the Company to recruit the Committee will take into account Russian labour code from time to time where the best candidate possible who will be able relevant factors including any performance the termination is at the Companys initiative to contribute to the Companys performance conditions attached to the awards the entitlement to pay in lieu of notice is and will help to reach its goals.
forfeited, the form in which they were currently limited to 3 months base salary.
granted e. g. cash or shares and the time The Committee may determine that a So far as practicable and appropriate, the frame of the awards.
The Committee will termination payment of up to 12 months Committee will seek to structure pay and generally seek to structure the buyout on a base salary should be paid, taking into benefits of any new executive Directors in comparable basis to awards forfeited.
The consideration the circumstances of line with the current remuneration policy.
overriding principle is that any buyout departure.
Going forward, all new executive Notwithstanding this, the Committee award would be at or below the Directors contracts will provide for a notice recognises that the Executive Director commercial value of remuneration period of no more than 12 months and for Remuneration policy set out above is forfeited.
any compensation provisions for termination tailored towards the only current Executive The Committee retains the flexibility to without notice will be capped at 12 months Director, the CEO, who has a significant alter the performance measures of the base salary and contractual benefits.
Any new annual bonus for the first year of Executive Director is likely to have a appointment, if the Committee determines There is no automatic entitlement to annual different fact-pattern to the current CEO, that the circumstances of the recruitment bonus, and Executive Directors would not and thus the Committee believe it is merit such alteration.
normally receive a bonus in respect of the important to retain the flexibility to be able financial year of their cessation.
However, to offer other elements, namely market Where an Executive Director is appointed where an Executive Director leaves by reason competitive, share-based incentive from within the organisation, the normal of death, disability, ill-health, or other reasons programs, which are linked to the policy is that any legacy arrangements would that the Committee may determine, a bonus companys performance and designed to be honoured in line with the original terms may be awarded.
Any such bonus would align the executive Directors interests to and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive normally be subject to performance and time the delivery of growth in shareholder value.
Director is appointed following an acquisition pro-rating, unless the Committee determines The maximum level of variable of, or merger with another company, legacy otherwise.
remuneration which may be granted at the terms and conditions will be honoured.
time of recruitment excluding any buyouts Non-Executive Directors letters will not exceed the on-going policy On the appointment of a new Chairman or of appointment described in the policy table above by Non-Executive Director, their fees will typically Each Non-Executive Director has a letter more than 200% of base salary.
This be in line with the Policy as set out above.
of appointment setting out the terms and additional headroom has been capped Any specific cash or share arrangements conditions covering his or her appointment.
at a level comparable to maximum award delivered to the Chairman or Non-Executives They are required to stand for election at the levels seen in conventional long-term will not include share options or any other first AGM following their appointment and, incentive plans operated in the wider performance related elements.
subject to the outcome of the AGM, the UK listed market.
appointment is for a further one year term.
The Committees intention would be for Executive Directors service contract Over and above this arrangement, the any share-based incentive awards to be and loss of office policy appointment may be terminated by the subject to performance conditions.
Where The CEO has a service contract with a Director giving three months notice or in the intention is to grant regular long-term subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
accordance with the Articles of Association.
incentive awards to a candidate, the Letters of appointment do not provide for Committee would seek appropriate The terms of the CEOs service contract are any payments in the event of loss of office.
shareholder approval for a new share summarised below: plan in accordance with the Listing Rules.
All Directors are subject to annual Executive Date of Notice period When setting salaries for new hires, the re-appointment and accordingly each Director contract months Committee will take into account all Non-Executive Director will stand for relevant factors, including the skills and Alexander V. 31 December N A re-election at the AGM on 18 June 2015. experience of the individual, the market Frolov 2014 from which they are recruited and the market rate for the role.
For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example a nonexecutive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Remuneration Report continued The key terms of the non-executive Directors Pension and benefits audited Annual Remuneration Report appointment letters are summarised below: The CEO does not participate in any private In this section we provide a summary of pension plans.
Benefits consist principally remuneration paid out to our Directors for of private healthcare and meal allowances.
the 2014 financial year, and details of how Non-executive Date of contract Notice Directors period the remuneration policy will be implemented Annual bonus in the following financial year.
Alexander G. 14 October 3 months The CEO is eligible to participate in a Abramov 2011 performance-related bonus which is subject Executive Directors remuneration to the agreement of the Remuneration Duncan Baxter 14 October 3 months In 2014 Mr Alexander Frolov, as the Chief Committee and approval by the Board of 2011 Executive Officer CEO was entitled to a Directors and paid in cash.
The bonus is base salary, a performance related bonus Karl Gruber 14 October 3 months linked to the achievement of performance and provision of benefits.
As a member of 2011 conditions based on predetermined targets the Board of Directors he is also entitled set by the Board of Directors.
The target to a Directors fee US$150,000 and any Alexander 28 February 3 months bonus is 100% of base salary with a maximum applicable fees for participation in the work Izosimov 2012 potential of 200% of base salary.
of the Board committees as laid out in the section below on Non-Executive Director Sir Michael Peat 14 October 3 months Annual bonus for 2014 audited remuneration.
However the Committee 2011 The bonus is linked to the Companys main consider these fees to be incorporated Olga Pokrovskaya 14 October 3 months quantitative financial, operational and in his base salary.
Alexander Frolovs current 2011 strategic measures during the year to ensure shareholding 10.88% of issued share capital alignment with the key aspects of Company as of 31 March 2015 provides alignment Terry Robinson 14 October 3 months performance and strategy.
For 2014, the with the delivery of long-term growth in 2011 following five indicators, with equal weightings shareholder value.
As such, we do not of 20% were taken into account when consider it necessary for the CEO to Eugene Shvidler 14 October 3 months determining the CEOs annual bonus: LTIFR, participate in any long term incentive plans, 2011 EBITDA, Free Cash Flow adjusted for or to impose formal shareholding guidelines.
disposals higher than US$50million, Cash Eugene 14 October 3 months However, the Remuneration Committee will Cost Index and Board assessment of overall Tenenbaum 2011 continue to review this on an ongoing basis.
Single figure of remuneration audited Copies of the Directors letters of The Committee reviews the resulting bonus Key elements of the CEOs remuneration appointment or, in the case of the Chief payout to ensure that the payout is appropriate package received in relation to 2014 Executive Officer, his service contract, in light of overall Company performance.
compared to the prior year are set out below.
are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
As shown in the table below, Company Alexander V. 2014 2013 Frolov US$ US$ performance against the pre-determined KPIs Consideration of conditions elsewhere and targets was strong, resulting in an annual Salary and 1,954,113 2,379,382 in the Company bonus payout of 77% of maximum.
Cash flow Director Management prepares details of all employee in particular was very strong due to improved 1 fees pay and conditions which is considered by EBITDA, lower than budgeted capex the Committee on an annual basis.
The Benefits 14,895 14,904 optimisation of spending and better Committee takes this into consideration investments management.
Better EBITDA was when setting the CEOs remuneration.
However Bonus 3,839,744 2,500,000 attributable not only to the Russian rouble the Committee does not consider any direct devaluation but also to management efforts Total 5,808,752 4,894,286 comparison measures between the Executive driving EVRAZs cost reduction programme Director and wider employee pay.
The company throughout the year.
Additionally higher than 1 The CEOs salary of US $2,500,000 was set in US$ in does not formally consult with employees on planned export volumes supported profitability 2008.
In 2012 it was converted to Russian roubles at the Executive Director remuneration.
of the business during the price fall in the prevailing exchange rate, reflecting the currency of payment, and this amount has remained unchanged domestic market.
These were aided by better Consideration of shareholder views since.
Fluctuations in exchange rates means that the performance of subsidiaries in North America.
retranslated, reported US$ figure may vary year on year.
When determining executive Director remuneration policy, the Committee takes Base salary into account the guidelines of investor bodies The current CEOs salary was approved by and shareholder views.
the Remuneration Committee on 23 May 2008 at a level of US$2,500,000 which includes, for the avoidance of doubt, the Directors fee, the fees that are paid for committees membership and any salary from an EVRAZ plc subsidiary.
For 2015, the CEOs salary will remain unchanged at US$2,500,000 but will be converted at an appropriate exchange rate, as determined by the Committee.
This will continue to be paid in Russian roubles.
94 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements The table below sets out details of the targets set for each KPI, the actual achievement in the year and total pay-out level for the 2014 year bonus: Result Measurement Planned level Bonus payout KPIs Target 2014 Upper level % of target Lower level Actual 2014 % of max 1 LTIFR 1.56 80% 100% 120% 106% 34% EBITDA US$1,863m120%100%80%125%100% FCF adjusted US$200m US$400m US$0m US$ 70 m US$748m 100% Cash cost index 100% 90% 100% 110% 87% 100% Board assessment of overall performance Committee assessment of overall Company performance See 50% against strategic objectives during the year, including consideration of operational commentary performance, financial performance, shareholder value below creation, outcome of key projects and stakeholder relationship management.
Total 77% 1 The LTIFR of 1.66 used for remuneration purposes in 2014 is different to the figure of 1.60 reported on page 16 of the report under Key Performance Indicators KPI.
This is because the LTIFR methodology used for the KPI was amended during the year to incorporate data from a larger number of EVRAZ offices.
As a result of this change the data is a more meaningful and accurate performance indicator.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe it would have been appropriate to revise the LTIFR number for CEO remuneration during 2014 from 1.66 to 1.60 as to do so would have the effect of making the target reduction in LTIFR easier to achieve.
For 2015, the calculation of CEO remuneration will be based on the revised KPI methodology.
Board assessment of overall performance Key projects.
In 2014, EVRAZ continued Annual bonus for 2015 2014 has been a strong year for EVRAZ, to make progress in streamlining the For 2015, the bonus framework will be evidenced by key achievements and good business.
In April we successfully in line with 2014.
Forward targets are progress against a background of continued completed the sale of our Czech Republic considered by the Board to be commercially challenge and turbulence in the external operations for US$287million.
In addition, sensitive: however they will generally be environment.
The Committee assessed the integration of Raspadskaya was disclosed in the subsequent year.
In line with overall Company performance and the finalised, transforming the coal business previous years, a malus arrangement will contribution of the CEO by assessing a wide into a large scale market participant both apply under which bonus payouts may be range of metrics, including: in Russia and internationally.
The CEO adjusted downwards to reflect the overall Operational performance.
Healthy margins successfully orchestrated a reorganisation performance of the Company.
were achieved in the Companys key of senior management during the year to markets.
Production out-turns were mixed ensure continued delivery of the and remain a key area of focus for the Companys strategic targets.
Actions to reduce Stakeholder relationship management.
costs have been successful, resulting in The CEO made significant progress a total reduction of nearly 4% of the total towards achieving his succession planning cost base.
EVRAZ achieved Despite an improvement in LTIFR significant growth in EBITDA during the compared to 2013, overall health and year.
Strong cash flows and progress in safety outcomes were disappointing and cost control enabled EVRAZ to reduce remain a key area of focus for 2015.
From financial leverage, which is now below the the client perspective, EVRAZ launched a strategic goal of 3x Net debt EBITDA.
new customer relationship management Shareholder value creation.
2014 saw a system in 2014, improving efficiency and recovery in the share price, with the the customer experience.
year-end price over a third higher than at the start of the year.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors remuneration Non-Executive remuneration payable in respect of 2014 and 2013 is given below audited information : Single figure of remuneration audited 2014 US$, 000 2013 US$, 000 1 2 1 2 Non-executive Director Total fees Admin Total Total fees Admin Total Alexander G. Abramov 750 30 780 750 30 780 Alexander Izosimov 198 30 228 198 30 228 Eugene Shvidler 174 30 204 174 30 204 Eugene Tenenbaum 150 30 180 150 32.5 182.5 Karl Gruber 224 30 254 224 30 254 Duncan Baxter 224 30 254 224 30 254 Olga Pokrovskaya 198 30 228 198 32.5 230.5 Sir Michael Peat 224 30 254 224 30 254 3 Terry Robinson 376.1 30 406.1 351.1 35.7 386.8 1 Total fees include annual fees and fees for committee membership or chairmanship pro rata working days.
2 The Company contributes an annual amount of US$30,000 towards secretarial and administrative expenses of Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, the Directors incur travel and accommodation expenses necessarily incurred in the discharge of their duties.
These expenses are reimbursed by the company.
3 Also includes US$78,100 paid as fees for Chairmanship in Raspadskaya Coal Company, a company in which EVRAZ has a controlling shareholding.
A Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of an annual fee of US$150,000 and a fee for committee membership US$24,000 or chairmanship US$100,000 in respect of the Audit Committee chairmanship and US$50,000 for the chairmanship of other committees.
For reference, the fees payable for the chairmanship of a committee include the membership fee, and any Director elected Chairman of more than one committee is only generally entitled to receive fees in respect of one chairmanship.
The fee for the Chairman of the Board amounts to US$750,000 from 1 March 2012 this fee includes, for the avoidance of doubt, the Directors fees and the fees that are paid for committee membership.
Fees will remain unchanged for 2015.
Aggregate Directors Remuneration The aggregate amount of Directors remuneration payable in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$8,597 thousand 2013: US $7,668 thousand.
Share ownership by the Board of Directors audited As set out earlier in this report, there are no formal minimum shareholding requirements currently in place, reflecting the CEOs current shareholding in EVRAZ.
The Directors interests in EVRAZs shares as of 31 December 2014 were as follows: Number of Total holding, Ordinary Directors shares shares, % Alexander Abramov 328,170,157 21.78% Alexander Frolov 163,870,710 10.88% Eugene Shvidler 46,864,423 3.11% There have been no changes in the Directors interests since 31 December 2014 until 31 March 2015.
All shares held by Directors are held outright, with no performance or other conditions attached to them, other than those applicable to all shares of the same class.
Other Directors do not currently hold any shares in the Company.
96 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2,210 2,617 90 0 2,325 1,821 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below shows the Companys total expenditure on employee remuneration in the current and the prior year in comparison to key financial metrics in US$millions.
The 16% fall in employee pay has been significantly influenced by the Russian rouble devaluation.
-16% 28% EBITDA Dividends Total employee pay 2014 2013 Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return compared to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index since EVRAZ plcs admission to the premium listing segment of the London Stock Exchange on 7 November 2011.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is a broad based index of which the Company is a constituent member.
Total shareholder return performance 180 140 100 60 40 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 EVRAZ FTSE 250 The table below shows the CEOs single figure of total remuneration over the past three years along with a comparison of variable payments with maximum opportunity.
Annual variable element award rates US$ CEO single figure of total remuneration against maximum opportunity 2014 5,808,752 77% 2013 4,894,286 50% 2012 2,141,000 0% 2011 1,667,000 11.3% Percentage change in remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in the elements of remuneration for the Director undertaking the role of CEO compared with average figures for Russian based administrative personnel.
We have selected this group of employees as an appropriate comparator as they are based in the same geographic market as the CEO, meaning they are subject to similar external environment pressures.
1 CEO Russian administrative personnel Salary 0% -15% Benefits 0% -18% Annual bonus 54% -18% 1 There was a significant weakening of the Russian rouble during 2014 which significantly impacted the US dollar value of the salaries of the Russian personnel.
For reference the relevant percentages calculated on a Russian rouble basis would be 2%, -1% and -1% for salary, benefits and annual bonus respectively.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Remuneration Report continued legal and regulatory requirements, the advice provided to the Committee during the Remuneration Committee provisions and recommendations of the year was 55,300.
No other services were In this section we give details of the UK Corporate Governance Code and provided to the Company by the advisor composition of the Remuneration Committee associated guidance: during the financial year.
and activities undertaken over the past year.
to review and take into account remuneration trends across the Group Deloitte is a founding member of the Members of the Remuneration Committee when setting the remuneration policy Remuneration Consultants Group and, as The EVRAZ plc Remuneration Committee for Directors: such, voluntarily operates under the code of was constituted and appointed by the Board to review regularly the on-going conduct in relation to executive remuneration on 14October 2011, and the Committee appropriateness and relevance of the consulting in the UK.
comprised the following independent remuneration policy: Non-Executive Directors during the 2014 year: to determine the total individual Sir Michael Peat, an Independent Nonremuneration package of the Chairman of Executive Director of EVRAZ, is also an Duncan Baxter Committee Chairman : the Board, the Company Secretary and key Independent Non-Executive on the Board K arl Gruber: senior management, including pension of Deloitte LLP.
Both the Chairman and the A lexander Izosimov rights, bonuses, benefits in kind, incentive Remuneration Committee Chairman recognise payments and share options or other the need to ensure that there is no conflict See Directors attendance at Committee share based remuneration within the of interest arising from the appointment of meetings on page 74. terms of the agreed policy: Deloitte LLP as independent remuneration to approve awards for participants where consultants.
We are satisfied that the nature No Directors are involved in deciding their existing share incentive plans are in place: of Sir Michaels role at Deloitte LLP does not own remuneration.
The Committee may to review and approve any compensation give rise to such conflict and that there are invite other individuals to attend Committee payable to executive Directors and senior appropriate internal controls and segregation meetings, in particular the Chief Executive executives: and of duties in place.
Sir Michael did not play Officer, the Head of Human Resources and to oversee any major changes in employee a part in the tender and selection process.
external advisers for all or part of any benefits structures throughout the Group.
Committee meeting as and when appropriate The Committee is satisfied that the advice and necessary.
During 2014, the Remuneration Committee met they have received has been objective three times.
The purpose of the meetings was and independent.
Role of the Remuneration Committee to consider and to make recommendations to The Remuneration Committee is a formal the Board in relation to the remuneration Shareholder considerations committee of the Board and can operate packages of the Executive Director and key We remain committed to ongoing sharewith a quorum of two Committee members.
senior managers, to approve the annual bonus holder dialogue and take an active interest in It is operated according to its Terms of for the 2013 results as well as to approve the feedback received from our shareholders and Reference, a copy of which can be found 2014 LTIP awards and list of participants.
Advisors Where there are substantial votes against The main responsibilities of the Remuneration The Committee received advice during the resolutions in relation to Directors Committee are: year from independent remuneration remuneration, we shall seek to understand consultants Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP was the reasons for any such vote and will detail to set and implement the remuneration selected by the Committee to provide the any actions in response to these.
policy for the remuneration of the Company remuneration consultancy services.
Chairman of the Board, the Companys During the year, Deloitte advised the The following table sets out actual voting Chief Executive Officer, the Company Committee on developments in the regulatory results from the Annual General Meeting Secretary and key senior management: environment and investor views and in the which was held on 12 June 2014 in respect to take into account all factors which it development and disclosure of the Companys of our previous Remuneration Report.
deems necessary to determine such a incentive arrangements.
The total fee for framework or policy, including all relevant Total votes as % of issued share Number of votes For Against Withheld capital To approve the Directors 1,024,991,904 6,623,345 10,265,194 68.48% 1 Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 99.36% 0.64% That the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the Directors 1,024,608,770 6,996,299 10,265,194 68.48% Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 be approved 99.32% 0.68% 1 Percentage of votes cast.
These results illustrate the strong level of shareholder support for the Directors remuneration framework.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, Duncan Baxter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 March 2015 98 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
