Board Remuneration Report continued broadly consists of basic annual salary, an current Remuneration Policy has been Performance Share Plan annual performance related bonus, a longimplemented in the year ended 31 August 2014 The long-term incentive plan in the form of term share-based incentive plan, retirement and how the Remuneration Policy will be the PSP had two performance targets for benefits and benefits in kind.
implemented in the forthcoming year.
We will the three year Performance Period ended 31 be seeking shareholder support for the August 2014: Total Shareholder Return The salaries and incentive programmes Remuneration Policy Report and the new PSP TSR against an appropriate peer group of continue to reflect performance of the by way of a binding vote at the forthcoming companies listed on page 60 : and growth in individuals and performance against Group AGM on 14 January 2015 and the Annual underlying EPS of the Company.
Nicholas Hobson received a salary Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory performance over the three year increase of 2.4% from 1 September 2014 and vote at that AGM.
Performance Period ended below the Richard Perry received an increase of 2.5% median and therefore no award will be made from the same date.
Further details are given under that performance metric.
The EPS on page 60. performance target likewise failed to exceed The incoming Group Finance Director, John the median target for that measure.
No Pratt, will receive a basic salary that broadly shares will vest under the PSP for the Plan Alan Wood matches that of Richard Perry and will also Cycle ending in 2014.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive a bonus entitlement capped at 100% of Basic annual salary and other benefits 11 November 2014 base salary and a PSP entitlement also based As discussed last year, salary increases of 6% on 100% of base salary.
His pension and 2.9% were awarded to Nicholas Hobson entitlement will be capped at 25% of base and Richard Perry respectively at the start of salary.
The effect of the capped pension the year under review, reflecting the entitlement means that John Pratts overall performance in the previous financial year remuneration will commence at a significantly and, in relation to Nicholas Hobson, the 6% lower level than that of Richard Perry.
John increase was part of the planned acceleration Pratt will be on an accelerated remuneration of salary to reflect his increasing experience package, designed to increase his salary in line in the role.
Pension contributions and pension with experience.
allowances remained unchanged in the year Nicholas Hobson may also be in receipt of as a constant percentage of salary.
some continuing reimbursement of costs and Nicholas Hobson received reimbursement for expenses arising from his relocation.
on-going relocation expenses as per the Report format terms of his Service Agreement.
This Report is in two sections: a Remuneration 2015 policy Policy Report, which sets out the For the financial year ending 31 August 2015, Remuneration Policy of the executive and nonthe overall policy for the executive directors executive directors: and an Annual remains largely unchanged and remuneration Remuneration Report, which discloses how the Remuneration Policy Report align the interests of the executives with the Committee may have to make minor Remuneration policy and those of the shareholders by rewarding amendments to the arrangements philosophy them for enhancing shareholder value and described in the Remuneration Policy, for When setting the Remuneration Policy, the performing at the highest level: regulatory, tax or administrative purposes following principles and objectives are borne in or to take account of a change in have a Remuneration Policy that mind: legislation.
appropriately incentivises without maintain the ability of the Group to attract, detracting from the goals of good recruit and retain the best people with the corporate governance: qualities, experience and skills necessary when setting remuneration and developing to operate and develop its businesses: the Remuneration Policy, take into consideration the views of shareholders reward hard work, commitment, drive, and best practice guidelines: experience and leadership skills: the Remuneration Committee does not have a fair structure that recognises and consult with employees but they are aware rewards achievement and is aligned with of and do take into consideration the pay the strategic goals of the Group: and conditions of employees across the in recognition of the Groups global nature, Group, particularly when considering any have a package of reward with both short increases in base salary.
Increases to and long-term incentives, thereby helping salary do in the main reflect the average to promote its long-term growth and increases given to the workforce as a whole stability: in the Groups Western economies: and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 56 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Remuneration Policy table for executive directors effective from 14 January 2015 Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Base salary Core element of Whilst there is no maximum opportunity, The Committee sets base salary levels Not applicable.
fixed remuneration increases to base salaries will normally taking into account the following: reflecting the be in line with the wider Group.
Higher The individuals skills and individuals role, increases may be awarded in certain experience.
skills and circumstances, such as: experience.
Where a new executive director has Salary levels at companies of a been appointed to the role at a lower similar size and complexity.
Market than typical level to allow for growth in competitive Pay and conditions elsewhere in the the role.
provided to Where an executive has been promoted Base salary levels are normally attract, retain or has a significant increase in and motivate high reviewed on an annual basis with responsibilities.
changes generally effective from calibre people to the roles.
September, although increases may Where it is considered necessary to be made at any other time if the reflect a significant change in market Committee considers this is practice.
Base salary levels for the forthcoming year are set out in the Annual The level of base salary may initially be Remuneration Report.
Nicholas Hobsons positioned below the median of a salary is partly denominated in US dollars chosen comparator group with the and the reported amounts in sterling will intention of ratcheting up the salary vary with changes in the exchange rate.
over time to reflect market norms after an initial period of satisfactory service.
Retirement To provide The Chief Executive Officer is entitled to a Retirement benefits may be delivered Not applicable.
benefits sufficient pension pension allowance of 26% of base salary: in the form of a cash pension allowance provision.
part is paid into a defined contribution or as a contribution to a pension plan plan and part is delivered in cash.
Part of the package to The retiring Group Finance Director Some legacy pension arrangements in attract, retain participated in the Companys defined respect of Richard Perry are explained and motivate benefit scheme until April 2012 and now further in the Policy.
receives a pension allowance of 88.2% of base salary: this is a legacy arrangement that will not arise again with any future executive.
John Pratt will receive a retirement benefit capped at 25% of his basic salary when he takes up the Group Finance Director role.
Benefits in To provide market Variable but typically include car allowance, The car allowance is generally set Not applicable.
kind comparable phone allowance, private medical periodically and increased annually by benefits in line insurance, business travel and RPI.
Other expenses are paid as they with normal subsistence, reimbursement of relocation arise or are reviewed periodically.
corporate expenses where appropriate and other The Committee may remove or practice.
ancillary benefits including repatriation introduce other benefits if it is expenses where appropriate.
considered appropriate to do so.
Annual The annual bonus Maximum award currently 100% of base The Committee retains the discretion to Performance targets for the forthcoming bonus incentivises salary for the Chief Executive Officer and change the annual bonus performance year will normally be disclosed in the scheme delivery of annual the incoming Group Finance Director and measures if considered appropriate.
Annual Remuneration Report for that financial and 70% for the retiring Group Finance Financial performance will account for year.
Performance is normally strategic Director.
at least 80% of the total bonus.
measured over a one year period.
objectives to In exceptional circumstances such as The Committee takes account of No bonus will be paid unless there is support our recruitment, the Committee would material corporate events and their growth in audited underlying EPS business strategy consider extending the bonus of an impact when making final bonus compared to the previous year.
and the incoming executive director beyond 100% awards so that they are not artificially enhancement of Bonuses start to be earned once of base pay if necessary to attract a key impacted by major acquisitions, shareholder underlying EPS growth is achieved, up person into a role.
If a bonus is awarded in disposals or significant change to the value.
to a target of 50% of salary for 8% excess of 100% of salary it would be issued share capital of the Company.
capped at 200% of salary with The annual bonus is not subject to any These parameters will be adjusted to consideration being given to a lower clawback provisions.
Bonus pay-outs suit changes in economic and inflation starting base salary.
are dependent on growth in underlying circumstances.
For individual directors, This should be read in conjunction with EPS compared to the previous year.
where appropriate, the target the Recruitment section on page 58. percentages may be changed but within the overall limits disclosed herein.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 57 Board Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy table for executive directors effective from 14 January 2015 continued Component Objective Opportunity Operation Performance measure Long-term Provides a clear The PSP can issue Awards under both PSP plans The 2015 PSP will have 50% Relative TSR against the FTSE incentive - link between the conditional awards up to normally vest based on 250 Peer Group and 50% growth in underlying EPS for all PSP remuneration of 150% of base salary in performance over a period of three Plan Cycles issued with effect from 2015. executive normal circumstances.
Awards are normally held The PSP to be issued in 2014 will continue with the existing directors and Awards of up to 300% of for a further three year period performance measures of two-thirds on TSR against the members of the base salary may be made following the end of the Peer Group and one-third on EPS growth.
Group Executive in exceptional Performance Period.
Committee and circumstances under the No awards will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that A clawback provision may be the long-term current PSP.
This the performance achieved reflects the Companys applied to unvested and vested value creation for exceptional limit will be underlying financial performance.
awards made under the 2015 PSP shareholders and reduced to 200% of base in the event of a material the Company.
salary for awards made The Remuneration Committee will determine the misstatement of results and or an under the 2015 PSP.
performance targets at the start of a Plan Cycle taking error in the calculation of the into consideration changes in the business or prevailing Historically, awards have vesting outcome to any awards economic circumstances such as inflationary pressure.
not been issued in excess made under the plan.
Targets for awards being granted in the forthcoming of 100% of base salary year are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report for Awards that vest under both plans and there is no current that year.
will accrue dividends up to the intention to issue awards point of vesting and during the in excess of 100% over Under both plans, awards vest as follows: three year holding period post the life of this Policy.
Threshold performance: 25% of award Maximum performance: 100% of award with straight-line vesting in between these points.
Remuneration policy table for non-executive directors & Chairman from 14 January 2015 Component Objective Basis of fees Fees To attract, motivate and retain the best There is no defined maximum opportunity.
Fees are reviewed by the board at appropriate non-executive talent for the role.
Fees are set at a level which: intervals normally once every thee years but the fees are adjusted annually by RPI.
Is appropriately positioned compared to The non-executive directors are not entitled to companies of a similar size and complexity.
participate in bonus or long-term incentive Reflects the time invested and contribution arrangements.
expected from the Chairman and nonThe remuneration of the non-executive executive directors.
directors is determined by the Board as a Fees are set at an appropriate level to recruit whole with individuals absenting themselves the right calibre of individual without paying from discussions relating directly to their own more than is necessary.
Fees paid to the nonremuneration.
executive Chairman and non-executive directors may not exceed the aggregate limit of 500,000 set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Benefits in kind In line with market practice.
The non-executive Chairman receives a car The Board may introduce additional benefits if allowance.
it considered it appropriate to do so.
Travel and subsistence expenses are paid by the Company.
When determining the remuneration package will take into consideration a number of factors Additional detail on Remuneration for new executive directors, consideration will when determining buy-out awards including Policy be given to a number of factors, including the the performance conditions attached to Recruitment calibre and experience of the individual, local awards, the form in which they were granted When recruiting a new executive director, the market practice, the individuals current i. e. shares, cash and the timeframe of Committee will generally seek to align the remuneration arrangements, the remuneration awards.
We will generally aim to structure buyremuneration package offered with the Policy arrangements for other executives of the out awards on a comparable basis to awards as described in the Policy table.
Group and the business circumstances at the forfeited.
To facilitate buy-out awards, the time.
We will seek to pay no more than is Committee may grant awards to a new The Committee will give consideration to a necessary for the role.
executive director under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2. change of structure outside of the stated Policy in exceptional circumstances, such as In exceptional circumstances the maximum In the event that an internal candidate was recruiting to a temporary position on a level of variable pay which may be award to an promoted to executive director, legacy terms contractual fee rather than a base salary.
In executive in the year of their recruitment is and conditions will generally be honoured.
such circumstances, the aim would be to 500% of base salary, reducing to 400% in 2015, In the event of the appointment of a new structure a package that is broadly equivalent which is in line with the Policy as set out in the Chairman or non-executive director, to the cost of remuneration levels under the table above.
This would be used if it is remuneration arrangements will normally normal Policy.
The rationale for any departures necessary to offer a buy-out of awards forfeited follow the Policy outlined in the table above.
from the usual Policy will be explained in full in by an incoming executive director on leaving the Annual Remuneration Report for that year.
The Committee Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 58 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Performance measures Directors service contracts and termination payments Annual bonus scheme The details of the service contracts in relation to the executive directors and letters of The Committee considers both financial and appointment in relation to the Chairman and non-executive directors who served as directors strategic measures when deciding on an during the year are as follows: appropriate performance measure, thus aligning incentives with delivery of the Groups Effective date of service Unexpired term at Notice strategic objectives.
contract letter of appointment 31 August 2014 period Appropriate targets are set each year aligned Executive directors to business objectives.
Nicholas Hobson 1 March 2011 - 1 year Richard Perry 5 April 2012 - 1 year The performance measures set for the Non-executive directors executive directors are reflected in those set Mark Abrahams 1 March 2014 30 months 1 year for the senior management team, albeit senior Vanda Murray 11 January 2012 5 months 1 year managers also have specific operational Alan Wood 1 April 2013 19 months 1 year performance measures in addition to those set John Sheldrick 1 September 2013 24 months 1 year for the executive directors.
The Committee retains discretion to alter Policy on payment for loss of office targets to reflect material changes in circumstances such as the impact of a change Notice period Benefits in accounting standards or a change to the Executive and non-executive directors have Benefits normally cease on the date Groups structure.
There is discretion on continuation of some minor benefits such as This discretion includes the ability to reduce Termination health insurance and repatriation costs for a payments depending on the underlying Contracts include provision to terminate with period following cessation where it is performance of the Group.
or without notice or by paying in lieu of notice considered reasonable and appropriate.
depending upon what is considered to be in the Long-term incentive plan Out of placement assistance may also be best interests of the Company and in the TSR and EPS are considered to be fair offered to an executive director.
measures of performance and EPS contains an inherent inflationary element which is important Annual bonus Termination payment to the Committee and shareholders alike.
Bonuses are discretionary and not contractual.
Executive directors are entitled to be paid The Committee retains discretion to make a during their notice period or receive a Difference in Remuneration Policy for bonus payment dependent upon the particular termination payment amounting to no more other employees circumstances of the executive directors than 12 months salary, pension and other departure and performance.
Such payment Fenner is a global organisation operating in benefits.
The Committee may make additional can normally be made on a pro-rata basis to many territories and sectors with employees at termination payments to discharge an existing take account of time served during the different levels of seniority.
Reward policies for legal obligation or by way of settlement or financial year and can, at the discretion of the employees other than directors vary by division compromise of any claim arising in connection Committee, be paid wholly in cash.
and geography and take into account statutory with the termination of a directors office or requirements, local market practice and employment.
Directors would normally be expected to There are good leaver provisions in the PSP The remuneration framework for members of mitigate their loss but the Committee retains Rules giving the Committee discretion on the Executive Committee is broadly consistent discretion over this if it is considered to be in whether to make pro-rata awards to good with that for executive directors.
the Companys best interests not to mitigate.
Such awards can be settled in shares or cash and generally are only released at the Change of control end of a Plan Cycle.
There is a prescribed sum equivalent to 12 months gross salary including relocation Discretion costs, contractual benefits and any accrued Where the Committee retains discretion, it will bonus plus a pro-rata bonus in respect of the be used to provide flexibility in certain financial year in which the change of control situations, taking into account the particular occurs.
circumstances of a directors departure and performance.
Reward scenarios Nicholas Hobson Richard Perry Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director The following table shows how the composition 1500 1500 of each of the executive directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance achievement.
This is an estimate 1200 1200 of future reward opportunity split between the various elements of remuneration, showing 900 900. opportunity for on-target, maximum and belowtarget performance.
600 600 Long-term incentive PSP 300 300 Annual Bonus Fixed Pay 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Notes: On-target assumes 50% of potential maximum award under short and long-term incentive plans.
Fixed pay comprises base salary from 1 September 2014, estimated benefits in kind and pension entitlement.
