Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Board Remuneration Report Alan Wood Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Statement Dear Shareholder Key changes and Committee activities during the year This introductory letter is intended to provide The Committee engaged with major shareholders and proxy voting agencies to consult on its some context for the Committees activities plans for the Remuneration Policy and proposed changes to the PSP, both of which will be put to and decision making during the year and to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 14 January 2015.
The consultation was via letter and face-tosummarise the key points in the Report.
face meetings were offered to all major shareholders and proxy voting agencies.
The consultation was well received and outlined the main changes being introduced by the Committee, namely: The membership and governance of the Committee is set out on pages 41 to 42.
Clawback provision in the proposed new tax and national insurance for 3 years Shareholders will be asked to vote separately PSP: post vesting: this year on our Remuneration Policy Report Reduction of exceptional limit under the Normal bonus maxima to be 100% but and our Annual Remuneration Report.
new PSP from 300% to 200% of base could rise to 200% if necessary to recruit salary: Guiding principles a new executive director with The philosophy of the Committee remains consideration being given to awarding a New PSP performance measure to be unchanged: the main aim of remuneration is lower starting base salary.
Further details split evenly between a Total Shareholder to reward executive directors and senior Return measure and earnings per share are set out on page 57: managers appropriately for experience, measure: commitment, hard work, leadership skills, Buy-outs for incoming executives would drive and performance.
The Committee Total Shareholder Return performance be capped at the value of the incentive measure in new PSP to be median plus 1%: believes it is important to maintain award forfeited by the executive on leaving consistency in policy and procedures, a former employer: and PSP Peer Group to be the FTSE 250 particularly in relation to economic cycles so excluding investment trusts: Review and approval of remuneration that management are appropriately rewarded across the whole of the economic cycle.
Group package for the incoming Group Finance Participants in the PSP to hold vested performance and aligning the interests of shares after the sale of shares to settle Director.
shareholders with those responsible for the operational performance of the Group remain key considerations when setting that is fair, recognises achievement and 2014 outcomes remuneration.
A significant proportion of pay maintains the ability of the Group to recruit The outcomes of the various plans that is conditional on the achievement of and retain the best talent in the interests of all make up the 2014 total remuneration for stretching performance targets.
Any elements of the discretion executive directors are summarised in the are expected to build up and hold significant that the Committee may want to reserve table on page 62. personal shareholdings in the Company.
under the Remuneration Policy have been set out in the Remuneration Policy Report.
Bonus Remuneration incentives continue to have The annual bonus has a performance target challenging targets given the markets in which Business performance for the year based on growth in underlying earnings per the Group operates, but with the expectation Trading conditions continued to be share EPS of the Company: the targets are that those same principles and targets will challenging in certain parts of the Group, set at the beginning of each financial year.
The reward appropriately when results show principally in North America for the ECS EPS performance target was not met in 2014 growth against the stated objectives and division because of cautious sentiment within and therefore no bonuses will be paid to the strategy of the Group.
The Committee the US coal mining industry.
The AEP executive directors for the financial year ended considers that this approach is fair and divisions performance was encouraging, with 31 August 2014, notwithstanding the fact that equitable and balances the interests of all revenue ahead of last year on a constant good work was done in the year in response to stakeholders.
The Committee does take a difficult market.
The Committees Remuneration Policy will business performance into account when continue to strive to have a rewards structure setting remuneration levels.
