Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at Fidessas expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
There was a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2014.
This consisted of an internally run review conducted by the Chairman with the Company Secretary.
The performance evaluation questionnaire was based on the Code process and it covered the areas of Board structure, effectiveness, Committees, information and communication.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and submitted for discussion.
The feedback generated from the questionnaires was discussed by the Board, together with potential improvements that could be made.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively.
An evaluation of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executive directors present was also carried out and it was concluded that he was performing his role effectively.
In accordance with the requirements of paragraph B.
6.2 of the Code, the next independent evaluation of the performance of the Board is scheduled to be conducted during 2015.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of Fidessas operations: he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors.
Directors undergo a thorough, formal and tailored induction process on joining and, following regular reviews by the Chairman of training and development requirements, receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
The Companies Act 2006 imposes a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and, if they deem fit, to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
No conflicts have arisen since that legislation came into effect.
Committees of the Board The constitution and responsibilities of the Boards committees are set out below.
Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2014.
The Committee continues to believe that a significant proportion of the remuneration for the executive directors should be performance-related.
The elements of each executives package that are performance-related are the annual cash bonus, which is directly linked to the years operating profit, and long-term share incentives.
The performance-related elements are underpinned by a competitive salary but with very limited benefits.
These principles are reflected in the remuneration policy with the focus of the performance-related elements on consistent financial performance over multiple years and the operation of shareholding guidelines providing alignment with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
The policy has been applied consistently over the last three years and will continue through 2015.
Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors and corporate governance report continued Whilst the general constraint on remuneration packages within Fidessa eased in 2014, the Committee recognised that due to the anticipated challenges facing the business, prevailing market conditions and potential financial performance of Fidessa, basic salary and the total annual bonus opportunity for the executive directors should remain unchanged.
As in previous years, when setting the operating profit threshold for the executive directors annual bonus, the Committee considered the market conditions at the time, Fidessas projected financial performance for the year and the balance of stakeholders interests.
For 2014, the Committee felt it appropriate, bearing in mind the anticipated challenges to the business, to set the operating profit threshold at a level lower than that set in 2013.
Fidessa delivered strong operating profit applicable to the bonus calculation during the year, which was considered a strong performance when compared with the challenges anticipated at the beginning of 2014.
This resulted in the aggregate of basic salary and annual bonus increasing by 9% for Chris Aspinwall and by 6% for Andy Malpass compared to 2013.
When viewed on a multi-year perspective rather than for a single year, the aggregate percentage change for Chris Aspinwall from 2010 has been 11% and this compares to the aggregate percentage change for UK employees over the same period of 21%.
In order to maintain a strong link between remuneration and longer term financial performance of the Group, long-term performance-related share incentives were granted to the Chris Aspinwall in 2014, through the use of the Performance Share Plan PSP, details of which are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
With the intended retirement of Andy Malpass, it was considered inappropriate for him to receive any grants under the PSP during 2014.
The Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP options awarded in 2009 reached the end of their measurement period in 2014 and failed to vest.
Those options required three performance conditions to be satisfied.
There was outperformance for two, the absolute total shareholder return TSR condition and the earnings per share condition: however the required 5% outperformance of the techMARK All-Share Index TSR was not achieved by a margin of 0.4%.
The Committee has agreed that any increase in executives directors salaries for 2015 will take into account and reflect sensitivities in relation to percentage increase received by the Groups UK employees.
Additionally, there will be no change in benefits and each executive directors annual bonus will be aligned to operating profit performance in a similar way to 2014.
The Committee, with Board approval, has also agreed that the Chairmans fees will be increased by an amount consistent with the fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation but also taking into account his time commitment and responsibilities.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report has been split into two sections: the Directors Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, which sets out the policy on the directors remuneration for the three year period commencing on 30th April 2014, and an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses the directors remuneration for the year ended 31st December 2014.
Fidessa will be seeking shareholders support for the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
