Dir ectors remuneration report Dear Shareholder group would be the FTSE 250 excluding financial services and extraction As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to introduce the companies.
Again, this change was made after consulting the Companys Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2014. largest institutional shareholders.
The Committee considers that this comparator group remains appropriate for the awards to be made in the coming year.
In line with the new remuneration reporting requirements introduced by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, the report has been split into The Committee also decided that both LTIP and EABP awards should, going two parts: forward, include malus provisions which allow for reduction or forfeiture of unvested awards in the event of misconduct or a material misstatement in the Remuneration Policy report.
This sets out Remuneration Policy for the Groups accounts.
Directors for the next three years.
The Policy report is subject to a binding vote of the Company shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July Other than as outlined above, no major changes were made to the Companys 2014.
If approved by shareholders the policy as outlined in the Policy report remuneration policy from prior years.
will come into effect on the day following the Annual General Meeting.
If there Our philosophy on remuneration is any change to Remuneration Policy, the new policy will be re-submitted to With the challenges ahead, it is as important as ever to ensure that we have in shareholders for approval place the highest quality management motivated to deliver outstanding The Directors annual report on remuneration sets out how the performance.
However, we strongly support the view that failure to deliver Remuneration Policy has been implemented during the year.
This should not be rewarded.
Remuneration practice has been restrained over the is subject to an annual advisory vote of shareholders.
most recent difficult trading years with no pay increases for Executive Directors in 2013 14.
There will again be no pay increases for Executive Directors in the Context for decisions on remuneration coming year.
The maximum opportunity under the LTIP for Executive Directors We have made good progress during the year in most areas of our operations was reduced from 150% to 120% of basic salary for the two financial years although results have been hit by extreme weather conditions, particularly in North ended 31 March 2014 and the maximum LTIP opportunity will again be kept at America.
We have nevertheless increased adjusted operating profit in the year by 120% for the coming year.
The Group has entered into a multi-year transformation programme which sets out a detailed series of financial targets, the aim of which In setting the Companys Remuneration Policy, we have sought to provide a is to deliver improved earnings growth and value creation on a sustainable basis.
strong and demonstrable link between incentives and the Companys strategic The programme will require consistent focus by the Executive Directors and objectives and medium term financial targets more details of which are set out management team in order to deliver the Groups strategic objectives and the in the Chief Executives strategic review on page 6 and on pages 10 and 11 of performance targets we have set and it is against this background that the the strategic report and to set a performance-biased framework for Remuneration Committee has formulated its Remuneration Policy.
remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances and which enables Executive Directors and senior managers to Key areas of focus for the Committee during the year share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive A thorough review of remuneration policy has been undertaken by the benefits or encouraging short term measures or excessive risk taking.
Remuneration Committee during the year in preparation for the creation of the Remuneration Policy report.
This included, in particular, a review of the Our EABP contains annual profit and cash generation targets which provide an operation of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Executive Annual incentive for management to focus on the strategic objectives which year-on-year Bonus Plan EABP and the relevant performance targets.
should lead to achievement of our medium term financial targets.
This is reinforced After consideration of various options for the LTIP, including a possible Return by the targets chosen for our LTIP as outlined above which will maintain that focus over the longer term.
The reservation of discretion to reflect underlying on Capital Employed ROCE target as an alternative to the TSR and or EPS performance notwithstanding achievement of EPS and TSR targets described measures used in previous years, and following consultation with a number of the Companys largest institutional shareholders, it was agreed that TSR and above provides a mechanism for ensuring that management are also focused on other key issues such as ROCE.
EPS targets would be retained.
However, for the awards made in the year, even if the EPS and TSR metrics are met, if the underlying performance of the Group Our core values of safety and customer service, both of which also have a key for example in relation to ROCE during the performance period does not justify part to play in achieving our strategic objectives, are also reflected by specific vesting, the Committee retained discretion to adjust vesting of the awards.
these circumstances, awards would only vest to the extent considered appropriate by the Committee taking into account that underlying performance.
Shareholder engagement The Committee has actively engaged with certain major shareholders on That discretion has been retained for the awards to be made in the coming year.
remuneration issues including consulting on LTIP performance measures and The comparator group for the TSR element of LTIP awards made during the the Remuneration Policy during the year.
The previous comparator group was composed of the Travel and Leisure sector and it was felt that as it included only three companies Professor David Begg that were closely comparable to FirstGroup, a more meaningful comparator Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FirstGroup 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
