Governance Dir ectors remuneration report Dir ectors Remuneration Policy Introduction In this section, we describe FirstGroups Remuneration Policy for This section of the report sets out the details of the Remuneration Executive Directors Table 1 and Non-Executive Directors Table 4.
Policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company and We set out both the overall structure and the details of the Policy.
will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General We also explain how the Policy aligns to business strategy and the Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 July 2014.
Our policy which, interests of shareholders.
In setting the Policy, the Remuneration except as set out above, is largely unchanged from that applied in Committee has sought to balance the need to provide a high level recent financial years, will take effect from the day following the Annual of clarity for shareholders whilst allowing the Committee sufficient General Meeting, subject to it being approved by shareholders at that freedom, within appropriate limits, to respond to future events.
Unless it is changed before then, it will operate for the period The information set out in this section is not subject to audit.
up until the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
Further details on how the policy will be implemented in the financial This report is compliant with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 year ending 31 March 2015 including incentive performance measures and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and are set out on pages 90 to 92.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations.
Table 1: Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Basic salary Purpose and how it supports the Groups Salary is the core reward for the role and enables the Group to recruit and retain individuals of strategic objectives the calibre required to deliver its strategic objectives and lead its management team.
It reflects the individuals skills, expertise, experience and role within the Group.
Operation Salary is paid monthly in cash.
Salary levels take into account: the outside market for executives with comparable seniority, experience and responsibilities employed by the Groups peers in the passenger transport sector and in other companies of comparable scale, complexity and geographic spread market data, which is used by the Committee to inform rather than drive its decisions relative differences in the size, responsibility and complexity of the roles performed by each of the Groups Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee will review salaries for the Executive Directors annually with changes normally taking effect from 1 April each year.
The Committee may also review salaries on an ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities.
Maximum Opportunity Details of the salaries for each of the Executive Directors to be paid from 1 April 2014 are shown on page 90.
The Committee will make no increase which it believes is inconsistent with the three parameters above.
Increases will take into account and will generally not exceed the general level of pay awards around the Group, in particular with reference to employees who are not within collective bargaining arrangements.
However, higher increases may be provided at the Committees discretion where an individual is promoted and or if there is an increase in their responsibilities.
Link to Performance Increases are subject to affordability and satisfactory performance.
FirstGroup 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Annual performance related bonus Purpose and how it supports the Groups The Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP exists to incentivise and reward annual financial strategic objectives performance and performance against key financial and other objectives that underpin the future value of the Group.
It focuses the executives on the key priorities for the coming year.
The EABP also aligns pay costs to affordability and the value delivered to shareholders.
The compulsory deferral of a proportion of bonus into shares aligns the individuals incentives to longer term value creation and shareholder interests.
Operation Bonus payments are made annually following the year end and are not pensionable.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified financial and non-financial targets over a one year period.
Any annual bonus award will be made at least 50% in the form of deferred shares although the Remuneration Committee has discretion to require a higher level of deferral.
The balance is paid in cash.
The deferral period is normally three years.
Maximum Opportunity The maximum potential bonus is 120% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for other Executive Directors although, under the rules of the EABP, the Committee has discretion to make higher awards in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee would not normally expect to exercise that discretion without consulting with the Companys major shareholders in advance.
Link to Performance Bonus payments are linked to a range of relevant financial and non-financial objectives including targets related to safety and customer service and to performance against certain personal objectives.
These objectives may also relate to the specific responsibilities of each individual Executive Director.
Where an Executive Director is also responsible for one or more operating divisions, payment of a proportion of the bonus may be linked to the performance of those divisions.
The objectives are set by the Committee at the beginning of each financial year with payout determined after year end following the Committees assessment of the extent to which the objectives have been met.
Each bonus element has a threshold level of performance below which no bonus is payable.
Payment of maximum bonus requires the achievement of very stretching levels of performance.
Bonus in respect of non-financial performance may be subject to a financial performance threshold.
The Committee has discretion to reduce unvested deferred awards at any time during the three year vesting period in the event of misconduct or a material adverse misstatement in the Groups accounts.
The rules of the EABP also give the Committee discretion to vary the terms of unvested deferred share awards in certain circumstances further details are provided in Table 3 on page 78.
Details of performance targets and performance achieved will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the Directors annual report on remuneration to the extent that the information is not considered commercially sensitive.
Details of the bonus parameters for the financial year ending 31 March 2015 are set out on pages 90 and 91.
FirstGroup 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and how it supports the Groups The LTIP exists to align the rewards paid to Executive Directors to shareholder interests.
It strategic objectives achieves this by linking remuneration to the longer term financial success of the Group in terms of explicit vesting targets and to the Groups share price.
Operation The LTIP provides a conditional award of shares or options to acquire shares, the vesting of which depends on Group performance against certain targets and continued employment subject to good leaver provisions as described on page 78 over a three year period, or such longer period as is determined by the Committee.
Awards may be paid in cash or shares and may also include the right to accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
Maximum Opportunity The maximum annual award is generally 150% of basic salary although the plan rules permit the award of up to 200% of basic salary in exceptional circumstances.
Link to Performance Performance measures for the LTIP will be a combination of financial and or shareholder return share price-based measures, measured over at least three years.
For achievement of threshold performance i. e. the minimum level at which any part of an award vests no more than 25% of the award may vest.
For measures based on relative performance against a peer group or index, the performance threshold will be at least equal to the median of the peer group or the performance of the index.
The Committee has discretion to vary the proportion of awards vesting if it considers the outcome would otherwise not be a fair and complete reflection of the underlying performance of the Group over the plan cycle.
The Committee is aware that investors have particular concerns about the use of upwards discretion in LTIPs.
It would only expect to exercise this discretion within the stated maximum opportunity and then only in exceptional circumstances.
In these circumstances it would normally consult with shareholders in advance and would reflect the broad consensus of shareholder views in exercising it.
The Committee also has discretion to reduce unvested awards in the event of misconduct or a material adverse misstatement in the Groups Accounts.
The rules of the LTIP also give the Committee discretion to vary the terms of unvested awards in certain circumstances further details are provided in Table 3 on page 78.
Details of the performance conditions for LTIP awards to be made in the financial year ending 31 March 2015 are set out on page 91.
The Committee may set different performance targets for future awards if it considers it appropriate based on relevant market conditions.
Details of such performance targets will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the Directors annual report on remuneration provided that the Committee determines that the information is not commercially sensitive.
FirstGroup 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Pension or cash allowance Purpose and how it supports the Groups Pension provision allows executives to build long term savings for their retirement and is a strategic objectives competitive requirement for recruiting and retaining executive talent with the necessary skills and experience.
Operation and Maximum Opportunity The Group operates various pension arrangements including both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
Eligibility for these arrangements depends on country location, employing division and date of joining the Group.
The current UK defined benefit scheme includes a scheme earnings cap and Executive Directors who participate in these arrangements receive a cash allowance of 20% of basic salary in excess of that cap.
The defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants so Executive Directors who are not currently in this scheme either participate in a defined contribution scheme or receive a cash allowance on a basis that is in line with the contribution made to the defined contribution pension.
For UK-based Executive Directors, the maximum cash pension allowance is 20% of basic salary or, where applicable, 20% of basic salary in excess of any scheme earnings cap.
Contributions are made on a monthly basis.
In the event of further changes to the pension tax regime adversely affecting individuals pension benefits and or to the Groups pension arrangements, the Committee may amend the pension benefits available but only on a basis which would not cost the Company materially more than that Executive Directors current arrangements in terms of percentage of basic salary.
Link to Performance N A Benefits in kind Purpose and how they support the Groups Benefits in kind are provided where these are a competitive necessity, are a practical benefit strategic objectives to the business and or are offered to other Group employees.
Operation and Maximum Opportunity Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the Directors annual report on remuneration.
Core benefits for Executive Directors include a car benefit, private medical insurance for themselves, their spouse or partner and any dependants and death in service and long term sickness benefits.
They may also receive reimbursement for professional body membership subscriptions.
Executive Directors who are overseas citizens may also receive an allowance to cover tax advisory fees.
Executive Directors may be eligible to receive any other benefits made available to the Groups employees more generally, including discounted travel on the Groups services.
They may also become eligible for any new benefits introduced for a wider set of other Group employees.
If, in the opinion of the Committee, it were to be necessary for one of the Executive Directors to relocate then relocation and or expatriate benefits might be paid, including housing, travel, taxation advice, moving costs and in the case of an international relocation education for family members.
The Committee would also consider the equalisation of tax payments, if appropriate.
An Executive Director based outside the UK would be eligible to participate in insurance and other benefit arrangements in line with local practice.
The Group actively monitors, reviews and seeks to control the cost of benefits provided.
However costs will vary from year to year in accordance with insurance premia and other factors outside the Groups direct control.
Link to Performance N A FirstGroup 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued All-employee share plans Purpose and how they support the Groups Executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC approved all-employee schemes which strategic objectives encourage share ownership.
Operation and Maximum Opportunity Executive Directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Link to Performance Participation levels operate in accordance with HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
Share ownership Purpose and how it supports the Groups Requiring Executive Directors to hold shares helps to align their financial interests with those strategic objectives of shareholders.
Operation The Company has guidelines which require an Executive Director over a period of up to five years to build a holding of shares in the Company representing a market value calculated by reference to purchase price equal to 100% of basic salary.
These guidelines further require Executive Directors to retain at least 50% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under an LTIP or any other executive share award or plan or otherwise acquire shares in the Company until the guideline shareholding is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of the guidelines where it believes it is justified by the circumstances.
Link to Performance The value of shares held by Executive Directors will fluctuate in line with the Groups share price, creating alignment to shareholder interests.
Changes to policy since the last remuneration report EPS growth.
Further details are set out in the letter from the Chairman of The main changes in the Remuneration Policy since the Directors the Remuneration Committee on page 70 and details of the specific remuneration report in the 2013 Annual Report are that a malus metrics chosen for each of the EABP and LTIP for the coming year are set provision was added to the EABP and the LTIP comparator group was out on page 91. changed from the FTSE All Travel and Leisure Index to the FTSE 250 Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors excluding financial services and extraction companies.
compared to other employees Choosing performance metrics and targets The Group aims to provide competitive remuneration packages across As outlined in the strategic report, the Group is going through a the whole employee population and where remuneration is not subject multi-year transformation programme to ensure that it delivers to collective bargaining arrangements, the Group operates to similar sustainable long term growth and value creation over the plan period.
principles to those which apply to Executive Directors.
In particular, remuneration reflects the performance of the Group and the In setting the Companys Remuneration Policy, we have sought to contribution made by the individual.
Any differences that exist arise provide a strong and demonstrable link between management either because of local market practice and or the Committees incentives and the Companys strategic objectives and medium term assessment of business need and commercial necessity.
financial targets more details of which are set out in the Chief Executives strategic review on page 6 and on pages 10 and 11 of the Participation in the EABP and LTIP is open to other senior managers strategic report.
We have also sought to set a performance-biased at the discretion of the Board.
However, the proportion of pay that framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale is performance-related is higher for Executive Directors and and unique circumstances and which enables Executive Directors and divisional leaders.
senior managers to share in the long term success of the Group Remuneration Policy on recruitment without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging short term On appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee would seek measures or excessive risk taking and aligns their interests with those to align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the of our shareholders.
Companys Remuneration Policy and would take into account the The choice of performance measures for the LTIP and EABP are therefore package as a whole.
It would not pay more than necessary to secure based on a mixture of financial and operational targets with a clear the right candidate and the package would take into account the alignment to those strategic objectives and medium term financial targets experience and calibre of the individual concerned.
and also to our core values of safety and customer service whilst providing through the LTIP an incentive to deliver superior shareholder returns and FirstGroup 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Where a newly appointed Executive Director is required to relocate, The Chief Executive the Group may pay the costs of relocation including housing, travel, Total Remuneration 000s taxation advice, shipping costs and education for family members.
Fixed 1,062 The Committee would also consider the equalisation of tax payments, 100% Target 2,077 to allow flexibility in employing overseas nationals.
Any Executive 51.2%24.4% 24.4% Director based outside the UK will be eligible to participate in pension Maximum 3,091 34.4%32.8% 32.8% or pension allowance, insurance and other benefit programmes in line 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 with local practice.
Fixed EABP LTIP Any Executive Director promoted internally may remain eligible for payments under incentive plans joined and or contractual The Group Finance Director arrangements entered into before joining the Board.
However the Total Remuneration 000s Committee will have regard to best practice in reviewing the treatment Fixed 541 of any such entitlements.
100% Target 1,036 52.2%21.7% 26.1% In some circumstances it may be necessary to compensate Executive Maximum 1,531 Directors for incentives lost from their previous employers.
In these 35.3%29.4% 35.3% 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 circumstances the level and timing of such compensation will normally seek to reflect or take account of the term and performance conditions Fixed EABP LTIP of the payments or awards forgone on a like for like basis.
Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards of In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: or options over Group shares but cash and or time-vested payments may be made where the Committee believes these would offer better Fixed value-for-money for shareholders.
The Committee is sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and will endeavour to take Consists of basic salary, benefits in kind and pension cost-effective approaches.
Basic salary is salary for the financial year ending 31 March 2015 Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy for Chief Executive: 845,625, Group Finance Director 450,000 Executive Directors The value of benefits for each Executive Director is assumed to be A significant proportion of Executive Directors potential remuneration is in line with that for the financial year ended 31 March 2014, as set performance-related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the EABP out in the table on page 82 and long term incentives under the LTIP.
The value of the Chief Executives pension benefit and allowance The charts that follow illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided is assumed to be in line with that for the financial year ended to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for the 31 March 2014, as set out in the table on page 82 financial year ending 31 March 2015.
The performance scenarios The value of the Group Finance Directors pension allowance is 20% illustrated are below threshold, on-target and maximum performance, of his basic salary for the financial year ending 31 March 2015. with remuneration split between fixed remuneration, the EABP and the LTIP.
Target Based on what the Director would receive if the target performance was achieved: Annual bonus pays out 50% of maximum 120% of basic salary for the Chief Executive, 100% of basic salary for the Group Finance Director Long term incentive pays out at 50% of maximum 120% of basic salary.
Maximum Based on what the Director would receive if the maximum performance was achieved: Annual bonus pays out at 100% of maximum 120% of basic salary for the Chief Executive, 100% of basic salary for the Group Finance Director Long term incentive pays out at 100% of maximum 120% of basic salary.
Annual bonus includes both cash and deferred share elements.
FirstGroup 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Service agreements and loss of office payments The general principle is that there should be no payment for failure.
The Directors service agreements and letters of appointment are kept More specifically, there are no contractual entitlements to incentive for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
A payments that have not vested and these will, in normal circumstances, summary in respect of Executive Directors is set out in Table 2 below.
only vest for good leavers in a defined list of circumstance as set Provisions for Non-Executive Directors are summarised in Table 4 out below.
Table 2 Service agreements for Executive Directors Notice Period Not more than 12 months rolling.
Termination payments salary and benefits The contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the discretion of the Company, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination of the contract.
Such payments are limited to basic salary plus, in certain cases, benefits only and would be subject to mitigation.
Where the Executive Director participates in one or more of the Groups all-employee share schemes, his awards may vest upon termination in accordance with applicable scheme rules.
Additional expenses In the event that an Executive Directors employment is terminated for any reason other than gross misconduct, reasonable outplacement and legal fees may be paid by the Group, at the discretion of the Committee.
In the event that an Executive Director has been required to relocate, reasonable repatriation costs including possible tax exposure costs may be paid at the discretion of the Committee.
FirstGroup 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Table 3 Summary of treatment of leavers and discretions available to the Committee under the EABP and LTIP rules Treatment of leavers under the EABP Executive Directors who are under notice are not normally eligible for payments under the EABP.
The rules of the EABP do give the Committee discretion to make an award in these circumstances but the Committee would only consider exercising such discretion if this were justified by the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
Any such payment would normally be in cash with no deferral, would reflect the period of time served from the start of the performance period to the date of termination and would be based on the level of performance achieved.
Any unvested deferred EABP awards will normally lapse on leaving the Group before the vesting date.
However, awards may instead vest if the Executive Director leaves the Group as a result of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, a transfer of employing company outside of the Group, redundancy or for any other good leaver reason the Committee deems appropriate.
In these circumstances, awards are normally subject to a pro-rata reduction, although the plan rules give the Committee discretion to waive the pro-rating.
Vesting will normally occur at the normal vesting date but may be accelerated at the discretion of the Committee.
In the event of death, deferred EABP awards vest immediately in full.
Treatment of leavers under the LTIP Unless the Committee is satisfied that special circumstances exist, LTIP awards will not normally be granted to any Executive Director who has given or received notice of termination of employment.
Unvested LTIP awards will normally lapse on leaving the Group before the vesting date.
However, awards may instead vest if the Executive Director leaves the Group as a result of ill-health, injury or permanent disability, retirement, a transfer of employing company outside of the Group, redundancy or for any other good leaver reason the Committee deems appropriate.
In these circumstances, awards will be subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
Vesting will normally be delayed until the applicable performance conditions have been assessed, but may instead occur immediately at the discretion of the Committee, having regard to performance achieved to the date of exit.
In the event of death, LTIP awards will vest subject to a pro-rata reduction.
Discretions available to the Committee Under the rules of the relevant plan, the Committee retains certain discretions with regard to under the EABP and LTIP the operation and administration of the EABP and LTIP including: the timing and size of awards, subject to policy maximums amending the plan rules in accordance with their terms adjustments required in certain circumstances for example rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends decisions in relation to a change of control of the Group and other corporate events such as a demerger or other transaction which would affect the current or future value of any awards vesting of awards as a result of a transfer of an Executive Director to work in another country, where there would be a tax disadvantage in relation to awards or the ability to exercise those awards or to hold or deal in the shares in relation to the LTIP, to include the right to receive a dividend equivalent amount on any shares subject to awards and to satisfy awards in cash.
FirstGroup 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued External appointments The Committee also reserves the right to make either minor or Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an administrative amendments to this Policy to benefit its operation outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in or to make more material changes in order to comply with new connection with Group business, the individual Director is entitled to laws, regulations and or regulatory guidance.
The Committee retain any fees received.
There are no limits on the number of external would only exercise this right if it believed it was in the best interests directorships an Executive Director could take on but in considering of the Company to do so and where it is not possible, practicable any request for approval, the Board would consider the extent to which or proportionate to seek or await shareholder approval in the external role would affect that individuals ability to perform his or General Meeting.
her role at the Company whether in terms of time commitments, Setting pay policy conflicts of interest or otherwise.
Employee context Exceptions to the Remuneration Policy Mick Barker as Group Employee Director attends meetings at the Notwithstanding the restrictions laid out in this Policy, where the Group invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the Groups has made a commitment to a Director which: employees.
As such, the Committee believes it is well-informed on the attitudes and concerns of employees.
The Committee takes into was in accordance with the then prevailing Remuneration Policy account the terms and conditions of Group employees when at the time that the commitment was made: and or determining pay policy for Executive Directors and in determining their salary increases, recognising that many employees fall under collective was made before the Director became a Director: and or labour agreements.
The Committee also takes into account information was made before the rules on binding votes on remuneration provided by the HR function and external advisers.
policies came into effect, Shareholder engagement the Company will continue to give effect to it, even if it is inconsistent When reviewing the remuneration framework of Executive Directors, with the policy which is in effect at that time.
For example, earlier the Committee takes into account the views and guidance expressed remuneration policies of the Group may continue to apply in relation by institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies.
to LTIP awards, deferred EABP awards and awards under employee share plans that may be or have been granted under one The Company consulted with a number of its major shareholders on Remuneration Policy and vest or be exercised under a later one.
It also received feedback from the ABI.
All the feedback it received has been taken into consideration when finalising The Committee may also exercise any of the discretions available to this Policy.
it under any of the employee share schemes in which an Executive Director may participate which were adopted prior to the date of this Policy.
FirstGroup 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy continued Table 4: Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Basis of appointment The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early termination without compensation if he or she is not re-appointed at a meeting of shareholders where he or she is up for re-election.
These letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will be made available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice periods under the letters of appointment are generally three months on either side.
Payment of fees for any portion of that period may be made in lieu of notice.
Each Non-Executive Director is required to give sufficient time to meet the expectations of their role and is required to obtain the prior consent of the Chairman before taking on any additional commitment that might affect the time they are able to devote to their role.
The Chairman must seek approval from the Senior Independent Director for any outside directorships which might give rise to a conflict of interest or duty or might impact on the time that he is able to devote to his role.
Fee structure The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fixed fee for all Board responsibilities.
Other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee for Board membership with supplementary fees payable for additional responsibilities including chairing Board Committees.
Travel expenses and hotel costs including any tax thereon are also paid, where necessary.
Other than the Group Employee Director, the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive arrangements or share schemes and are not eligible for pension or other benefits.
The Group Employee Director receives a normal remuneration package for his regular duties appropriate to his role.
The Employee Directors fee as a Director is payable in addition to his or her normal remuneration and any additional fee he or she may receive for acting as employee director of one of the Companys subsidiaries.
Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Group can attract individuals with the requisite experience, capability and commitment.
Reviews take into account the structure and level of fees payable by listed companies of similar scale, complexity and geographical spread and increases for the Groups workforce.
Fees may also be revised on an ongoing or temporary basis to take into account changes to the working of the Board.
Fees are payable in cash and or shares at the discretion of the individual Director.
Fee levels Annual fee levels for current incumbents for the financial year ending 31 March 2015 are as follows.
Non-Executive Chairman: 250,000 Non-Executive Director Base Fee: 52,500 Group Employee Director: 39,375 Supplementary fee for Senior Independent Director unless chair of a Committee : 7,500 Supplementary fee for Chairing the Audit Committee: 12,000 Supplementary fee for Chairing the Remuneration and Board Safety Committees: 10,000.
The level of fee for a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director would take into account fee levels at other companies along with the nature of time commitment required and the calibre and experience of the individual.
The aggregate maximum fees for Non-Executive Directors are limited as set out in the Articles of Association.
FirstGroup 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration Introduction In carrying out its duties the Remuneration Committee takes into This section details the remuneration of the Executive and account any legal requirements, the Code and UK Listing Rules.
Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman during the financial Determining the fees of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for year ended 31 March 2014 and will, together with the annual statement the Board as a whole.
of the Committee Chairman on page 70, be proposed for an advisory The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee were last vote by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be reviewed and updated in March 2013 and are available on the held on 16 July 2014.
In preparing this report consideration has been Companys website, www.
given to the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
Key matters discussed during the year Remuneration Committee Considering and approving Remuneration Policy principles and the Membership final policy The Committee met ten times during the year.
Attendance by individual Committee members at meetings is detailed below.
Of these meetings Approving the remuneration packages for newly appointed four were scheduled meetings and six were called to consider urgent senior management or ad hoc business as it arose.
The majority of ad hoc meetings were Considering and approving the EABP 2012 13 bonus including necessary due to matters arising as a result of the rights issue and granting awards to the Executive Directors senior management appointments.
Confirming no vesting of the LTIP 2010 Considering the future design of LTIP and EABP structures Number of Number of scheduled ad hoc with consultants Committee member meetings meetings Total Reviewing and approving the Directors remuneration report David Begg, Chairman 4 6 10 Reviewing potential performance targets for the LTIP and EABP 2013 Colin Hood 4 6 10 Receiving feedback from consultations with certain major John Sievwright 3 6 9 institutional shareholders on proposals for the LTIP 2013 performance conditions and changes to the comparator Jim Winestock 3 6 9 group as well as receiving comments on a range of remuneration issues The Board considers each of the members of the Committee to be independent in accordance with the Code.
Mick Barker, as Group Approving the grant of awards under the LTIP 2013 and Employee Director, attends meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of EABP 2013 14 the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Chairman of Reviewing and considering the effect of the rights issue in 2013 the Board, as well as the Chief Executive, also attend meetings of the on the share awards under the EABP, LTIP, ESOS last grant 2004 Committee by invitation, but neither was present when matters relating detailed in previous reports and SAYE which have not been to their own remuneration were discussed.
exercised released, approving the application of the standard rights formula to each and reviewing associated correspondence Role of the Remuneration Committee Key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to determine Considering and approving the treatment of EABP and LTIP awards the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and for good leavers other members of senior executive management as follows: Considering and approving the remuneration of the new Chairman of the Board and recommending to the Board the fee for the new In line with the agreed policy, determine the total remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee package of each Executive Director, including as appropriate, bonuses, share awards and pension arrangements Considering and recommending the introduction of a fee for the Senior Independent Director.
Approve the design and targets for any performance related pay schemes, approve the total annual payments made under such schemes and review the design of all share incentive plans Oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures throughout the Group Determine the policy for Executive Directors service agreements and termination payments Agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Directors.
FirstGroup 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Advisers to the Committee have no involvement in audit and are not involved in the preparation of Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during the audited information.
The Committee is satisfied that the safeguards in year by the following advisers who were appointed by the Committee: place ensure that the remuneration advice it received from Deloitte LLP was independent.
KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abide by the voluntary code of Fee for 1 conduct of that body which is designed to ensure that objective and Adviser Area of advice services provided 2014 independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Deloitte LLP Incentive packages trends 20,160 The Committee also receives advice and guidance on senior executive and best practice remuneration from the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group KPMG LLP Review of Remuneration Policy 21,000 HR Director and Group Reward and Pensions Director.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee, ensures that the 1 KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP fees are paid on an hourly rate Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee on Deloitte LLP was engaged to provide advice to the Committee until the relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
end of August 2013 with KPMG LLP engaged thereafter.
KPMG LLP does not have any other connection with the Group and therefore the Remuneration Committee evaluation Committee was satisfied that it provided objective and independent The performance of the Remuneration Committee was externally advice.
Deloitte LLP are the Companys auditor but provided assessed by IBE during the year as part of the Board and Committee remuneration services in compliance with the Ethical Standards of the evaluation process.
A number of action items were identified which will Auditing Practices Board which restrict the provision of certain services be addressed during the coming year.
in order to maintain auditor independence.
Advisory partners and staff Executive Directors Remuneration audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2014 and prior year.
2 Taxable benefits include: Tim OToole 12,000 car allowance, 16,447 US private medical insurance for himself and spouse, 9,000 for reimbursement of advisory fees principally relating to taxation in the US and UK.
Chris Surch 1,404 UK private medical insurance for himself and spouse.
3 The following pension related benefits were received during the year: Tim OToole 141,724 pension allowance and 37,102 contribution towards a defined benefit pension scheme.
Chris Surch received a 90,000 pension allowance.
4 The total cash equivalent including the cash value of deferred shares of the EABP bonus award for Tim OToole and Chris Surch is detailed above for 2012 13 and 2013 14.
Tim OToole waived his EABP bonus award for 2012 13.
For each year, 50% of any bonus was in the form of share awards deferred for three years, with in the case of 2013 14 Tim OToole will receive an award of 223,554 shares structured as conditional share awards for nil payment and Chris Surch an award of 99,137 shares structured as nil cost options in each case which will vest on 1 April 2017.
5 The LTIP 2010 and LTIP 2011 lapsed on 13 May 2013 and 13 May 2014 respectively.
6 In 2011, Tim OToole was awarded 263,490 shares under a Retention Award Plan.
This took the form of a conditional share award for nil payment.
It vested and was released on 6 November 2013 at a market value of 122.90 pence per share.
7 A payment of 237,958 was made to Chris Surch to compensate him for forfeiting a cash bonus that he would otherwise have received from his previous employer Shanks Group plc.
The amount was confirmed in writing by the CEO of Shanks Group plc.
FirstGroup 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Executive Directors Pension Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2014 Tim OToole participates in a defined benefit pension scheme.
Whilst details of actual targets set by the Remuneration Committee His contributions to this scheme are paid via salary sacrifice with have not been disclosed as they are deemed to be commercially an equivalent contribution being paid directly to the pension scheme sensitive, given the close link between performance measures and the 1 th by the Company.
This currently provides him with 50 accrual for Companys long term strategy, details of the applicable metrics are set each year of service, based on average pensionable salary for the out below for the Executive Annual Bonus Plan.
three tax years prior to retirement.
He has chosen a normal retirement Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP age of 60 and can receive his benefits unreduced at that time.
There is For the year under review, bonuses were payable for Group normalised a scheme earnings cap and he receives an allowance of 20% of basic profit performance between 95% and 107% against target.
Below the salary in excess of that cap.
relevant threshold, the bonus would have been nil.
70% of any bonus Each Executive Director employed after 1 April 2011 receives a payable was dependent on Group financial performance against target pension allowance equal to 20% of their basic salary.
and the 30% balance was payable upon the achievement of safety, customer service and personal objectives.
The maximum potential The allowances paid during the year to Tim OToole and Chris Surch bonus which can be awarded to Executive Directors is 100% of basic were 141,724 and 90,000 respectively.
salary and 120% of basic salary in the case of the Chief Executive.
Information in the table below includes the total accrued benefit at 31 March 2014 which represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement given the length of service and salary of the Director.
Description Total of additional accrued benefits benefit at available to Age at Normal 31 March the Director 31 March retirement 2014 on early 2014 age 000 retirement Tim OToole 58 60 9 None EABP 2013 14 awards Award Performance achieved as a % of % of maximum relevant element potential bonus earned Measure Weighting Measure Threshold Target Stretch Tim OToole Chris Surch Financial 60% Operating profit performance 0% 50% 100% 34.4% 34.4% 10% Cash generation 0% 50% 100% 8.1% 8.1% Non-financial 7.5% Safety performance 0% 100% 0.0% 0.0% 7.5% Customer service performance 0% 100% 4.1% 4.1% 15% Personal performance 0% 100% 12.5% 12.5% Total bonus % of maximum 100% 59.1% 59.1% FirstGroup 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 award vesting Following testing of the performance conditions for vesting of the LTIP 2011 award at 31 March 2014, the Committee determined on 13 May 2014 that neither the EPS nor the TSR threshold targets had been met and accordingly the award has lapsed.
The awards granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010 also lapsed.
Scheme awards made during the year audited information LTIP Awards In 2013 the Remuneration Committee granted the following share awards to the Executive Directors under the LTIP: Minimum threshold Maximum performance performance Face value Face value % of award % of award Date of award % of basic salary on vesting on vesting Performance period Tim OToole 12.12.2013 120% 1,014,750 25% 100% 1.4.
13 to 31.03.2016 Tim OToole was granted 871,329 shares structured as conditional awards for nil payment and Chris Surch was granted 463,678 shares structured as nil cost options.
Face value was calculated using the average of the 5 days middle market closing prices of the Companys shares prior to the date of the award.
The awards are exercisable at the end of a three-year performance period subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and continued employment.
50% of the award is subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS and the remaining 50% of the award is subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR.
In respect of the LTIP 2013 the Committee also has discretion to determine that the underlying performance of the Group during the performance period does not justify the vesting of the awards, even if specific performance conditions are met in whole or in part.
In such case the awards may vest to such extent as determined by the Committee.
Details of the performance measures and targets for the 2013 LTIP award are set out below.
In respect of the half of the award which is subject to EPS growth: EPS Growth Target Portion vesting 11p 0% 11p 25% 15p 100% Between 25% and 100% will vest on a straight line apportionment basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 11p and 15p.
The half of the 2013 award which is subject to TSR will vest if the Companys TSR over the three year performance period falls within the top half of a ranking of the TSR of the companies within a comparator group.
The TSR comparator group for 2013 was selected to provide performance measurement against an index of which the group is a constituent part being the FTSE 250 excluding financial services and extraction companies.
This was a change to the previous years comparator group which was composed of the then current Travel and Leisure sector.
The change was made in order to provide a more meaningful comparator group as the Travel and Leisure sector contained only three companies that were closely comparable to FirstGroup.
This change was approved by the Remuneration Committee after consultation with major institutional shareholders.
FirstGroup 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Total Shareholder Return position of the Company within the comparator group Portion vesting Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and the upper quartile of the comparator group, vesting will be on a straight line apportionment basis between 25% and 100%.
Awards will lapse at the end of the performance period to the extent that the performance conditions have not been satisfied.
There will be no re-testing.
As with the previous awards, the foregoing vesting targets for the 2013 award and the level of the award as a multiple of salary in relation to the Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee following consultation with a number of the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The award for 2013 was set lower than the normal 150% of basic salary at 120% of basic salary, reflecting the low share price.
The Remuneration Committee has certain discretions in relation to LTIP vesting which are set out in the Remuneration Policy Report on pages 71 to 80.
Following the approval of the rights issue at a general meeting held on 10 June 2013 the Remuneration Committee determined that in accordance with the rules of the LTIP, a standard rights issue adjustment formula would be applied to adjust the outstanding options or conditional share awards granted under the LTIP.
Details of these adjusted awards are set out in the table on page 88.
EABP Awards Chris Surch received a bonus of 172,816 in respect of the 2012 13 financial year of which a portion 86,408 was received in the form of share awards structured as nil cost options deferred for three years which are due to vest on 1 April 2016.
Chris Surch was therefore granted 73,875 share awards adjusted for the rights issue under the EABP 2013 on 10 June 2013 at a price of 143.46 pence using the average of the middle market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares on the five working days from the date of the preliminary results and capital restructuring announcement on 20 May 2013 which was used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Tim OToole waived his bonus for 2012 13 and therefore did not receive any deferred shares under the EABP in respect of that year.
FirstGroup 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Single figure of Non-Executive Director fees and remuneration audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2014 and the prior year: John 1 2 5 5 5 Director McFarlane Martin Gilbert Mick Barker David Begg Colin Hood John Sievwright Brian Wallace Jim Winestock 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Base Fee 66 143 191 38 38 60 60 60 50 56 60 54 33 50 33 3 3 Basic salary 59 59 Value of 4 SAYE BAYE nil nil Total 66 143 191 97 97 60 60 60 50 56 60 54 33 50 33 1 John McFarlane joined the Board as Non-Executive Director on 5 December 2013 and succeeded Martin Gilbert as Chairman on 1 January 2014.
2 Martin Gilbert resigned as a Director of the Company on 31 December 2013.
3 Mick Barkers earnings from the Group as an employee including his pension and his fee as First Capital Connect FCC Employee Director are included.
In addition to this he received a FCC Olympic bonus of 500 in 2013.
4 As an employee Mick Barker is eligible to participate in the Groups SAYE and BAYE all employee share schemes.
He was granted 870 shares under the SAYE 2010 11 on 7 December 2010 at an option price of 260.117 pence per share which will lapse on 1 August 2014.
Mick Barker also received 184 matching shares during the financial year under the BAYE.
Based on the middle market closing price on 31 March 2014 of 145.90 pence per share the value of these was 269.
5 During 2012 13 and 2013 14 there was a supplementary fee of 10,000 per annum for chairing each of the Audit, Remuneration and Board Safety Committees.
Colin Hood was appointed Chairman of the Board Safety Committee on 1 April 2013 and John Sievwright resigned from chairing the Audit Committee and was succeeded by Brian Wallace on 29 October 2013.
Non-Executive Directors, other than the Group Employee Director, cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join a company pension scheme.
John McFarlane and Colin Hood receive all of their fees in the form of shares in the Company.
David Begg received 100% of his fees in the form of shares up to and including August 2013.
From September 2013 David Begg elected to receive 40% of his fees in the form of shares.
John Sievwright received 40% of his fees in the form of shares up to the end of December 2013.
He now receives all of his fees as cash.
Mick Barker, Brian Wallace and Jim Winestock receive 40% of their fees in the form of shares.
The shares are purchased on a monthly basis in the market.
FirstGroup 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Share ownership guidelines Following the establishment of the LTIP in 2008, shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors were introduced.
These require Executive Directors to retain at least 50% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under the LTIP award, or any other vesting of an award under any other executive share plan, or otherwise acquire shares in the Company over a period of five years until a shareholding with a market value calculated by reference to the purchase price equal to 100% of basic salary is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of such guidelines in certain circumstances, including the impending retirement of any Executive Director.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 March 2014 and the details of long term incentive interests are shown below: Unvested EABP Unvested LTIP Total number of awards subject to interests subject Shareholding Current interests in shares continued to performance Vested but not requirement shareholding 1 of each Director employment conditions exercised % of basic salary % of basic salary Requirement met Executive Directors Tim OToole 685,532 85,350 1,894,759 100% 100% Yes 2 Chris Surch 76,335 73,875 463,678 100% 25% No 1 Based on the middle market closing price of an ordinary share of the Company of 145.90 pence per share on 31 March 2014.
2 Chris Surch was appointed as a Director on 1 September 2012 and he has until 2017 to meet his share ownership requirement.
In 2010 11 Tim OToole was awarded 85,350 shares under the EABP.
It vested and was released on 21 May 2014 at a market value of 134.20 pence per share.
There were no other changes to the Executive Directors interests in the Companys shares during the period 31 March 2014 to 21 May 2014.
Non-Executive Directors shareholdings audited information Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
1 April 2013 or on date of 31 March appointment 2014 John McFarlane appointed on 5 December 2013 26,192 1 Mick Barker 11,646 44,585 David Begg 77,103 220,741 Colin Hood 32,313 107,491 John Sievwright 64,666 179,150 Brian Wallace 5,097 32,720 Jim Winestock 4,218 29,329 1 Mick Barkers total shareholding includes shares acquired under the BAYE comprising Partnership Shares, Matching Shares and any Dividend Shares.
FirstGroup 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Directors share awards audited information The outstanding share awards under the LTIP, deferred share bonus under the EABP and SAYE Scheme granted to each of the serving Directors are set out in the table below.
No price was paid for any share award.
There have been no changes to the terms and conditions of any share awards granted to Directors.
The number of share awards detailed in the table have been adjusted to reflect the rights issue in 2013 following the application of the standard rights issue adjustment formula.
At beginning Released Lapsed Date on of year Granted Exercised waived At which or date of during during during end of award appointment the year the year the year year Exercise vests Expiry of number of number of number of number of number of price becomes exercise Directors Scheme shares shares shares shares shares pence exercisable date 1 Mick Barker SAYE 2009 10 717 717 252.746 1.2.
2 Tim OToole waived his bonus for 2011 12 and 2012 13.
In respect of the deferred share element of the 2013 14 bonus award, Tim OToole will receive an award of 223,554 shares structured as conditional awards for nil payment and Chris Surch an award of 99,137 shares structured as nil cost options.
These will be deferred for three years from 31 March 2014.
3 The figure shown represents the number of share awards structured as conditional share awards for nil payment which were granted under the deferred share element of the EABP in respect of 2010 11 to Tim OToole, with Tim OToole electing to take all this bonus in the form of deferred shares.
4 The figures shown represent the number of share awards which were granted under the LTIP in the relevant financial year and are subject to the performance targets and deferral periods as set out above and discussed in previous remuneration reports for earlier grants.
5 The retention share award took the form of a conditional share award for nil payment.
6 The Remuneration Committee met on 13 May 2014 and determined that the performance conditions of the LTIP 2011 had not been met.
Therefore Tim OTooles entitlement under the 2011 LTIP has now lapsed.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive The table opposite sets out the percentage change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive compared with the average percentage change for UK employees including UK Bus and UK Rail but excluding Group.
The UK workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the Executive Directors are predominantly based in the UK.
In addition this avoids complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if employees based in the Groups overseas operations were included and the fact that a large proportion of the North American workforce works part time.
FirstGroup 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Year-on-Year Percentage Change in Remuneration of Chief Executive and UK Employees Average Percentage Change 2013 2014 Taxable Base Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 1 Chief Executive 0% 18.3% N A UK Employees 2.35% 0% 0% 1 The Chief Executive waived his bonus for 2012 13.
His total bonus including deferred share awards for 2013 14 was 600,020.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below outlines adjusted operating profit and dividends paid to shareholders compared to overall spend on pay.
The measure of profit has been chosen as a straightforward measure reflecting the performance of the Company.
Year end Year end 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 % m m change 1 Adjusted operating profit 268.0 254.1 5.5% 2 Dividends paid 114.0 3 Total staff costs 2,824.0 2,930.0 3.6 % 1 Operating profit before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives and exceptional items.
2 The total cost of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders.
3 Total staff costs from continuing operations includes wages and salaries, social security costs and other pension costs of 116,497 2013 14 and 120,475 2012 13.
The Company has not made any share buybacks during the financial year or prior year.
Payments to departing directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past directors: neither has it made any payments to directors for loss of office.
Total shareholder return The graph below shows, for the last five financial years of the Company, the total shareholder return on a holding of shares in the Company as against that of a hypothetical holding of shares made up of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 250 Index is calculated.
The FTSE 250 Index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market of which FirstGroup is a member.
Total shareholder return 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FirstGroup plc FTSE 250 Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Datastream FirstGroup 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Comparison of Company performance and Chief Executive remuneration over five-year period The following table summarises the Chief Executive single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity over the same five-year period.
1,2 Chief Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3 3 Annual bonus Tim OToole 43.4% 0% 0% 59.1% as a % of maximum opportunity Moir Lockhead 0% 43.6% 4 4 4 4 LTIP vesting Tim OToole 0% 0% 0% 0% as a % of maximum opportunity Moir Lockhead Chief Executive single figure of Tim OToole 357 1,055 1,068 1,986 remuneration 000 Moir Lockhead 643 503 1 Tim OToole joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009.
He was subsequently appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer on 14 June 2010 and as Chief Executive on 1 November 2010.
2 Sir Moir Lockhead resigned as Chief Executive in November 2010.
3 Tim OToole waived his bonus in 2011 12 and 2012 13.
Following testing of the performance conditions for vesting of the 2011 award at 31 March 2014 the Committee determined on 13 May 2014 that neither the EPS nor the TSR targets had been met and accordingly the award has lapsed.
External Board Appointments Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in connection with the Group business, the individual Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
For serving as a Director of CSX Corporation, Tim OToole receives a fee of $70,000 which is taken in CSX common shares and an annual grant of $150,000 also in CSX common shares.
Both elements are deferred until Tim OToole leaves the board of CSX Corporation and therefore he does not receive any current compensation.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors for 2015 The policy will apply to any remuneration paid on or after 16 July 2014.
Salary The basic salary for Tim OToole at 845,625 per annum and Chris Surch at 450,000 per annum remain unchanged.
Benefits These will remain as a car allowance, private medical insurance for himself and spouse and reimbursement of advisory fees relating to tax advice for Tim OToole and private medical insurance for Chris Surch for himself and spouse.
Pension The current pension arrangements described above will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
Annual Bonus EABP The annual bonus for 2014 15 will operate on the same basis as in 2013 14.
The Committee has approved a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary for Chris Surch and of 120% for Tim OToole.
50% of any bonus will be payable in cash with the remaining 50% in the form of deferred shares.
FirstGroup 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Proposed target levels have been set to be challenging relative to the budget for the year.
The threshold is 94% of Group budget operating profit target with maximum paid at 105%.
Specific targets are deemed to be commercially sensitive and therefore will not be published until such time that the Committee is confident that there will be no adverse impact on the Company of such disclosure.
The maximum potential bonus is 120% for the Chief Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director.
Measure Weighting Measure Threshold Target Stretch Financial 60% Operating profit performance 0% 50% 100% 10% Cash generation 0% 50% 100% Non-financial 7.5% Safety performance 0% 100% 7.5% Customer service performance 0% 100% 15% Personal performance 0% 100% Total % of maximum 100% LTIP For 2014, the LTIP will continue to operate on the same basis as in the 2013 LTIP.
Executive Directors will each receive an award of 120% of salary with 50% of the award subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share and the remaining 50% of the award subject to the Companys total shareholder return.
Details of the performance measures and targets for the LTIP 2014 are set out below.
In respect of the half of the 2014 award which is subject to EPS growth the following targets apply: EPS Growth Target Portion of award vesting 10p 0% 10p 10% 12p 25% 16p 100% Between 10% and 25% will vest on a straight line apportionment basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 10p and 12p.
Between 25% and 100% will vest on a straight line apportionment basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 12p and 16p.
The half of the 2014 award which is subject to TSR will vest if the Companys TSR over the three year performance period falls within the top half of a ranking of the TSR of the companies within a comparator group.
The FTSE 250 excluding financial services and extraction companies is the comparator group for 2014 awards, which remains unchanged from 2013.
Total Shareholder Return position of the Company within the comparator group Portion of award vesting Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and the upper quartile of the comparator group, vesting will be on a straight line apportionment basis between 25% and 100%.
FirstGroup 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Dir ectors annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees In May 2014, the Board reviewed Non-Executive Directors fees.
Following consideration of actual and proposed salary increases across the Group and indicative fee increases at sector and FTSE comparators, the Board determined that the base fee should be increased from 50,000 p. a. to 52,500 p. a. and that additional fees should be increased by a similar rate.
The Committee approved a fee payable to the new Chairman on his appointment of 250,000 p. a.
A summary of fee increases, which are effective from 1 April 2014, is set out in the table below.
Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis.
2013 2014 2014 2015 Fees Fees Base Fees 000 000 Chairman 191 250 Non-Executive Director 50 52.5 Group Employee Director 37.5 39.4 Additional Fees Senior Independent Director Nil 7.5 Chairman of Audit Committee 10 12 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 10 Chairman of Board Safety Committee 10 10 Statement of Voting on the Remuneration Report at the AGM Votes cast Votes cast For For % against Against % Votes withheld 2013 Vote 553,828,337 70.51% 231,648,104 29.49% 5,269,308 Feedback from shareholders indicated that the votes against the Directors remuneration report at last years AGM were largely a result of two main factors.
The first was the decision that the Executive Directors would be eligible to receive a bonus in a year when operating profit was reduced compared with the prior year.
As noted above, Tim OToole waived his bonus for the year.
However, much of the profit reduction was due to specific issues that were known in advance of the financial year and which were already reflected in external market forecasts for the year.
These included a reduction in UK Rail earnings, principally as a result of the First TransPennine Express franchise entering a three year extension period at margins closer to the industry average, and a reduction in UK Bus earnings, where Government funding available to the industry was reduced.
The Groups North American operations were also adversely affected during the year by Hurricane Sandy.
The Remuneration Committee therefore had to take these structural non-trading issues into account when setting bonus targets.
To do otherwise would have resulted in unrealistic targets being set, which would have been demotivating to the executive team.
The other issue on which we received shareholder feedback was the payment of a cash bonus to Chris Surch on joining the Company.
This was compensation for a cash bonus he would have received had he stayed with Shanks Group plc.
The amount of the bonus and terms on which it would have been paid were verified with Shanks Group plc.
The Companys position was explained to leading shareholders prior to the AGM.
Engagement with Shareholders on Remuneration The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee regularly engages with relevant organisations concerning the Companys approach to remuneration and reports back to the other members of the Remuneration Committee on such dialogue as necessary.
In particular the Remuneration Committee consulted extensively with major institutional shareholders in respect of the operation of the LTIP scheme and in respect of the policy for inclusion in this Directors remuneration report.
The Chairman of the Board also received feedback on remuneration issues when he met shareholders as part of his induction programme.
Further details may be found on page 66 of the Directors and corporate governance report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 21 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Professor David Begg Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FirstGroup 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
