Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement Dear Shareholder, We feel it is important to I am delighted to introduce the first Directors remuneration report for embrace the governance Fresnillo plc since my appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2014.
I felt comfortable in taking on the role as requirements of the UK Chairman of the Companys Remuneration Committee from Lord Cairns with effect from the 2014 AGM for two reasons.
Firstly, under the wise whileat the same time chairmanship of Lord Cairns and with the input of his fellow members of the Remuneration Committee, the Company has since its listing on notforgetting the Mexican the London Stock Exchange back in 2008 adopted a conservative and measured approach in relation to the whole issue of remuneration.
traditions of the Company Secondly, and more recently, the Company embraced the requirement to establish a remuneration policy for Directors and to put this to a vote of and that our management shareholders which received overwhelming backing from shareholders 99%.
Against that background, and without any form of complacency, I felt able to take this role on and to continue the good work of the Committee.
Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As a Committee we feel it is important to embrace the governance requirements of the UK while at the same time not forgetting the Mexican traditions of the Company and that our management team is based in Mexico.
In view of the above, we will continue to report on the remuneration of our Chief Executive Officer as if he was a member of the Board of Directors.
Consistent with the approach of many Mexican companies, we adopt a conservative approach in relation to remuneration and have no current intention of requiring Executive Directors to build up an equity stake in the Company whether by way of share options or otherwise.
We have not made any changes to the Remuneration Policy adopted at last years AGM but we have reproduced it in this years annual report for ease of reference.
We have also established, with the assistance of Towers Watson, a peer group for benchmarking the Chief Executives salary and the percentage range within which it should be set.
Yours faithfully Mr Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee | 142 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Remuneration Policy in Summary The Groups Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, The annual bonus rewards the achievement of shortand long-term seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain, and motivate financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal its executives and senior management.
The retention of key management objectives.
The KPIs and targets are also designed to ensure that both and the alignment of management incentives with the creation of short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo shareholder value are key objectives of this policy.
Group are given broadly equal priority.
As a consequence, the Company does not use share-based forms of remuneration to incentivise 1 Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate long-term performance.
level is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Salaries are therefore market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term and long-term for comparable companies.
Total compensation is set within a range KPIs in the following manner.
around the median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally: total remuneration is benchmarked biennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term.
Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and length of service.
Strategic objective Key Performance Timeframe Measure Weighting Indicator Production Short and long term Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 Maximise the potential Safety Short term Fatalities 5 of existing operations Resources Long term Increase in total resources 10 Deliver growth through development projects Increase in resources upgraded 20 Extend the growth from inferred to indicated pipeline Stakeholders Long term Various 11 Advance sustainable Financial Short and long term Net profit adjusted 17 development Teamwork 11 All objectives The Remuneration Policy is set out again below for ease of reference.
1 The Fresnillo plc Directors Remuneration Policy is applied to any Executive Directors appointed to the Board of Directors.
As at 31 December 2014, there were no Executive Directors appointed to the Board, however the Board reports on the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer as if he were a member of the Board during the year, in the interests of transparency.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 143
