Directors remuneration report In line with our policy, any annual bonus due to the directors in excess of 50% of maximum will be deferred for a period of The Remuneration Committee three years and paid in G4S shares.
Although operational performance in the year was strong, awards that had been made under our performance share plan in 2012 did not pay out.
The threshold level of performance over the three-year performance period of the plan that ended in 2014 was not met for either relative TSR or EPS growth.
This largely reflects the challenges the business has faced, and now addressed, in the earlier years of the performance period.
How we implemented our remuneration policy When operating the policy, the committee takes account of the overall approach and structure of employee reward across the group and pay decisions for the wider workforce as well as the results of relevant benchmarking data.
It is the committees intention that pay should reflect the responsibility attached to the role I am pleased to present the directors fulfilled, individual performance and other relevant market remuneration report for 2014.
Our remuneration must allow the company to attract, John Connolly and Ashley Almanza in their retain and motivate directors who will lead the group in the long respective statements, in 2014 we made term interest of its stakeholders.
considerable progress in the implementation of Base salary increases our strategy and improved financial results.
Those As disclosed last year, the CEOs salary was increased to 890,000 results are reflected in the pay outcomes for with effect from 1 January 2014, whereas salaries for other our executive directors.
This year, both the CEO and CFO received a salary increase from 1 January of 3%.
Mark Elliott This increase took account of market salary levels as well as salary Remuneration Committee Chairman increases elsewhere in the group.
As announced in October 2014, Grahame Gibson will be retiring from the board at the AGM in 2015 and his salary will remain unchanged again in 2015.
The Remuneration Committee spent much of its time How we operate our annual bonus plan communicating with management on the implementation of our new annual and long term incentive systems.
We focused There were no changes to the way in which we operated our annual bonus during 2014.
For 2015, the committee has decided on ensuring that these systems supported leaders both in delivering desired financial results and in the delivery of our strategy.
to operate the annual bonus with financial measures of performance of underlying group earnings and underlying group In particular, we discussed non-financial measures of health and safety and group values and the manner in which they interact with operating cash flow before capex.
The non-financial measures of performance are aligned with the groups strategic objectives and our financial measures.
We also discussed those items to be included in and excluded from our underlying performance metrics will continue to include health and safety.
Underlying group earnings will replace the underlying group PBTA financial performance to ensure they reflect the highest quality outcomes.
We are satisfied that our new leadership team has embraced and communicated measure under the annual bonus for 2015, as we consider this to be a better indicator of the groups performance going forward.
those principles as they have delivered the new incentive systems across the group.
Our long-term incentive plan We gained c. 97% support from our shareholders for our new How performance is reflected in remuneration outcomes long-term incentive plan at the AGM in 2014.
We plan to continue There was strong growth in underlying group profit before to operate our long-term incentive plan unchanged in 2015. tax and amortisation PBTA and underlying group operating cash flow, which reflected strong operating performances overall in UK Code compliance both emerging and developed markets.
At group level, the stretch We had anticipated the changes which were introduced by the financial targets set for the annual bonus were exceeded, resulting revised UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2014 with in maximum payouts under the financial element of the annual respect to malus and clawback.
Our incentive arrangements are bonus for two of the executive directors.
already subject to malus and clawback, as explained on page 75.
Scoring for non-financial metrics ranged from 57% to 98% of maximum.
As indicated above, we place a great deal of As a result, no changes were needed to our incentive arrangements emphasis on health and safety across the group, and take our to comply with the new requirements in 2015.
The Remuneration responsibilities to our employees and to wider society very Committees terms of reference have also been amended to bring seriously.
As there were a number of health and safety incidents them into line with the new Code requirements and can be found in the year, the Remuneration Committee took these into on our website at www.
account for the bonus outcomes for all of our senior executives.
Full details of the bonus outcomes for each of the executive directors are set out on page 79.
70 70 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Committee membership and attendance Meetings attended Main activities of the Remuneration Committee Scheduled Unscheduled during the year % Mark Elliott chairman 3 of 3 2 of 2 Expenses policies Winnie Fok 3 of 3 2 of 2 Executives base pay 10% 6% Mark Seligman 3 of 3 2 of 2 Clare Spottiswoode 3 of 3 1 of 2 Chairmans fee Reporting Responsibilities 9% & Governance The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of 18% the remuneration of the executive directors, other members of Below board level the group executive committee and the chairman of the board.
remuneration 12% It also agrees with the board the framework and policy for the remuneration of other senior managers of the group and reviews Annual bonus and recommends the remuneration of the company secretary.
22% LTIP 23% In determining remuneration policy, the committee takes into account a variety of legal and regulatory requirements, and the Consulting with our shareholders relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We are committed to consulting with our top shareholders on The committee also determines policy on the duration, notice key remuneration issues.
In late 2013 and early 2014, we consulted period and termination payments under the contracts with the with 13 of our largest shareholders as well as certain shareholders executive directors, with a view to recognising service to the representative bodies in respect of the proposed new LTIP and the company whilst ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the directors remuneration policy.
Their feedback caused us to add duty to mitigate loss is recognised.
clarifications on our policy statement and to alter some of the performance measures in the new LTIP.
I will be available to answer The committee approves the design and determines the targets questions and listen to the views of our shareholders at the and formulae for performance-related pay schemes operated by forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It approves the eligibility of executive directors and other group executive committee members for annual bonuses and Retirements benefits under long term incentive plans and assesses performance Trevor Dighton stepped down from the board at the 2013 Annual against the objectives of those plans.
General Meeting and retired from the company on 30 July 2014.
Details of Mr Dightons termination arrangements are set out in The committees terms of reference are available on the companys detail on page 81. website at w. w. w. g4s.
As reported above, in October 2014 it was announced that Our remuneration approach Grahame Gibson would retire from the board at the Annual We seek to attract and retain the best people whilst ensuring that General Meeting on 4 June 2015.
The committee will consider the remuneration policy and practice drive behaviours that are in the retirement arrangements for Mr Gibson over the coming the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders.
months, and we will provide full disclosure of these arrangements Fixed pay in next years report.
base pay I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mark Seligman, retirement benefits who will step down from the Remuneration Committee this year other benefits when he leaves the board at the AGM in 2015.
The committee has Short-term incentives benefited greatly from Marks knowledge and experience.
annual bonus plan one year The committees performance Long-term incentives The committees formal performance review carried out at the end Long term incentive plan three years of 2014 concluded that the committee was effective and continued to perform well.
In particular, the committee had achieved its goal to have greater involvement in the operation of incentive schemes Remuneration Policy across the group and to monitor the level and structure of The companys remuneration policy for directors was set remuneration for senior managers across the group.
out in full in the companys 2013 Annual Report and Accounts on pages 66 to 72 and can also be found on the Voting on remuneration companys website.
It was approved by shareholders at the The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory companys Annual General Meeting held on 5 June 2014 with vote at this years Annual General Meeting, and we look forward 98.38% of all votes cast in favour.
The policy refers to a new to receiving shareholders support once again this year.
long term incentive plan which was also approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, with 96.88% of all votes cast Mark Elliott Remuneration Committee Chairman in favour.
That policy came into effect on 6 June 2014 and will continue to apply for up to three financial years unless 26 March 2015 a new or revised policy is approved by shareholders in the meantime.
For convenience a summary of some of the main features of the policy is set out on pages 72 to 77 below.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 7171 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy summary Remuneration policy for executive directors Base pay In determining salary increases, the committee considers Purpose and link to strategy market salary levels including those of appropriate comparator Base pay is set at competitive levels in order to recruit and companies.
retain high calibre executives with the skills required in order to manage a company of the size and global footprint of G4S.
Ordinarily, annual salary increases would be no more than the average annual increase across the group.
However, in The level of pay will reflect a number of factors including exceptional circumstances a higher level of increase may individual experience, expertise and role.
be awarded, for example: Operation following a significant change to the nature or scale of Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing the business: or 1 January.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following following a significant change to the nature or scope of significant changes in role, scope or responsibility or at any the role: or other time at the committees discretion.
for a new appointment, where the base pay may initially be set below the market level and increased over time, The final salary decision may also be influenced by role, as experience develops and with reference to the individuals experience, individual and company performance, internal performance in the first few years in the role.
relativities and increases for group employees.
Where exceptional increases are made we will fully disclose Maximum opportunity and explain the rationale for such increases.
Actual base pay for each executive director is disclosed each year in the Directors remuneration report.
Performance measures None, although individual performance may have a bearing on salary increases.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity As with base salary, a suitable range of benefits is made maximum benefits per director per annum: available in order to recruit and retain high calibre executives.
holidays 30 days car allowance 20,000 Operation business related local transport 40,000 Executives are entitled to a number of benefits comprising for financial advice, expatriate benefits and relocation paid holiday, healthcare for themselves and their family and life expenses, the expense will reflect the cost of the provision insurance of up to 4 times base salary, car allowance, business of benefits from time to time but will be kept under review related transport, limited financial advice from time to time by the committee and expatriate benefits where relevant.
A relocation allowance other benefits granted at the discretion of the committee reflecting reasonable costs actually incurred will be paid.
up to 3% of base pay per annum per director Other benefits may be granted at the discretion of the reasonable business expenses which are reimbursed are Remuneration Committee.
not subject to a maximum, since these are not a benefit to the director Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will Any allowance in relation to relocation will provide for the be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred.
72 72 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic Typically, executive directors bonus measures are weighted business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
so that: between 70% and 85% of the bonus is based on Deferred element encourages long-term shareholding achievement of challenging financial performance measures and discourages excessive risk taking.
e. g. profit before tax and amortisation, organic growth, cash-flow measures, etc.
with each measure operating Operation independently of the others: and Awarded annually based on performance in the year.
the remainder is linked to personal and or non-financial Targets are set annually and relate to the group and or measures, which are strategic or operational in nature.
the business managed by the executive.
Each year, the committee may use its discretion to vary the Bonus outcome is determined by the committee after the exact number of measures, as well as their relative weightings, year end, based on annual performance against targets.
and this will be disclosed in the annual remuneration report.
Bonuses are paid in cash, but executives are required to defer As a result of the number of factors taken into account in any bonus payable in excess of 50% of their maximum bonus determining bonus, there is no minimum pay-out level.
Deferral is for a minimum period of For illustrative purposes, in the event that only threshold has three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the been achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to deferral period on deferred shares.
full pay-out should achievement of a stretch performance Bonuses are not pensionable.
level be achieved for all measures assuming the non-financial performance measures were satisfied.
Maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay per annum for The deferred element of the bonus is not subject to any the CEO and the CFO.
further performance measures but is subject to clawback in certain circumstances.
The non-deferred part of the 125% of base pay per annum for any other executive director.
bonus, which is settled in cash, is also subject to clawback.
See separate section below on page 75 Long Term Incentive Plan current Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Incentivises executives to achieve the companys long-term Maximum opportunity of 250% of base pay per annum for financial goals, as well as focus on value creation, whilst aligning the CEO.
the interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Maximum opportunity of 200% of base pay per annum for the other executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are granted awards on an annual basis, Performance measures which vest over a period of at least three years subject to Awards vest based on performance over a period of at least continued service and the achievement of a number of key three financial years commencing with the financial year in performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the quantum of Performance will be measured based on a combination of awards to be made to each executive each year to ensure earnings per share growth, total shareholder return against a that they remain appropriate.
comparator group and average operating cash flow.
For awards Dividends or equivalents accrue during the vesting period made in 2014, these were in the proportion of 40%, 30% and on awards that vest.
However, the committee retains the flexibility to amend these proportions, provided that no single measure The award is settled by the transfer of market-purchased will be a significantly greater proportion than the others.
shares to the executive directors.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant portion vests.
This increases All the released shares after tax must be retained until the on a straight-line basis up to 100% for performance in line with minimum shareholder requirement is met.
Targets are set out on page 83. minimum shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the other executive directors.
Awards are subject to clawback in certain circumstances see below on page 75.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 7373 Directors remuneration report continued Retirement benefits CFO receives 20% of base pay and the other executive Purpose and link to strategy director receives 40% of base pay reflecting his historic As with base salary and other benefits, making available a participation in a defined benefits plan which has been closed.
suitable retirement benefits package aids the recruitment and retention of high calibre executives, allowing such The level of award is kept under review by the committee executives to provide for their retirement.
and is intended to be broadly market comparable for the roles.
Operation Maximum opportunity G4S operates a defined contribution group-wide personal Maximum opportunity of up to 25% of base pay for the pension plan in the UK in which executives may participate.
CEO and 20% for the other executive directors save that Alternatively, G4S may provide a cash allowance in lieu of 40% of base pay per annum is payable to Grahame Gibson.
Performance measures The current executive directors receive cash allowances.
The CEO receives 25% of base pay as a cash allowance: the Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Chairmans fee The chairmans fees are reviewed against other companies of Purpose a similar size.
To attract and retain a high calibre chairman by offering a market competitive fee, which also reflects the Maximum opportunity responsibilities and time commitment.
There are no Ordinarily, any increase of the chairmans fee would be in line performance-related elements.
with other increases for similar roles in other companies.
Operation Fees payable to the chairman and other non-executive The chairmans fee is disclosed each year in the Directors directors in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the remuneration report.
The fees are reviewed annually by maximum specified in the companys articles of association the committee.
The annual fee is an all-inclusive consolidated for the relevant year.
The committee retains the discretion to review the chairmans fees at any other time if appropriate.
Non-executive directors fees excluding the chairman The NED component fees are reviewed annually by the Purpose executive directors.
The board retains the discretion to review To attract and retain high calibre non-executive directors the NED fees at other times, as appropriate, to reflect any NEDs by offering market competitive fees which should changes in responsibilities or commitment.
reflect the responsibilities and time commitment.
There are no performance-related elements.
The basic fee covers committee membership and each NED is expected to participate in one or more board committees.
All Operation the fees are reviewed against other companies of a similar size.
NED fees including any additional fee for any additional role listed below are disclosed each year in the Maximum opportunity Directors remuneration report.
Ordinarily, any increase of the NEDs fees would be in line with other increases for similar roles in other companies.
With the exception of the chairman, the fees for NEDs are structured by composition build-up consisting of: Fees payable to non-executive directors including the a base fee chairman in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the an additional fee for chairing a committee maximum specified in the companys articles of association an additional fee for the role of deputy chairman for the relevant year.
an additional fee for the role of senior independent director.
74 74 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Benefits Purpose Maximum opportunity Benefits may be provided from time to time in connection Reasonable business expenses which are reimbursed are with the chairman and other NEDs performing their roles, not subject to a maximum, since these are not a benefit to such as business travel, subsistence and entertainment, the director.
accommodation and professional fees for tax and social Benefits and expenses will reflect the actual cost of provision.
security compliance, and other ancillary benefits.
Operation Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by the company.
Notes to the directors remuneration policy summary For these purposes, payments may include the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
In cases where all or part of the 1.
Performance measures variable remuneration award was in the form of shares, the payment Annual Bonus Plan The actual performance measures and targets terms are those agreed at the time the award was granted.
are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
The performance measures used for our annual bonus plan In particular, awards made under the previous Performance Share Plan will continue to vest in accordance with the rules of that plan have been selected to reflect the groups key performance indicators.
The committee aims to ensure that the measures and to the extent that the relevant performance tests are met.
Details of the vesting of the awards will be published in the annual appropriately encourage the executive directors to focus on the companys strategic annual priorities, whilst the targets are set to remuneration report each year.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive The aim is to strike an appropriate balance between incentivising schemes nor do they receive any benefits other than those referred annual financial and strategic business targets, and each executive to in the above table.
directors key role-specific objectives for the year.
Malus and claw-back mechanisms Long Term Incentive Plan In choosing the performance measures Since 2010, any cash and or shares awarded under the annual bonus plans and the previous Performance Share Plan may be for the Long Term Incentive Plan, the committee aimed to find a balance of measures which reflect the companys long-term subject to clawback.
The Long Term Incentive Plan and the annual bonus plan may be subject to malus or clawback from the executive financial goals as well as incentivise executives to create sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
director concerned if the Remuneration Committee so determines and, in the case of misstatement of accounts, where the Audit Legacy plans The committee reserves the right to make Committee concurs.
The time period in which the clawback can be any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office operated depends on the reason for the overpayment as notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy summarised set out in the table below.
above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual The amount to be clawed back directly from the executive director was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the will be the overpaid amount, but the Remuneration Committee committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual retains the discretion to claw-back the net i. e. post-tax amount becoming a director of the company.
of the award received by the executive director.
Annual Bonus Plan including LTIPs Malus and claw-back deferred elements 2014 Plan PSP previous Current LTIP Material misstatement of up to 2 years after up to 2 years after vesting up to 2 years after vesting group financial accounts the payment of the except where due to cash element fraud or reckless behaviour when it shall be 6 years after vesting Misconduct up to 6 years after up to 6 years after vesting the payment of the cash element Fraud unlimited unlimited Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 7575 Directors remuneration report continued Principles and approach to recruitment and internal Service contracts Shareholders are entitled to inspect a copy of executive promotion of directors directors service contracts at the companys head office When hiring a new executive director, or promoting to the and annually at the AGM.
board from within the group, the committee will offer a package that is sufficient to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the Executive directors service contracts all have the following features: right talent whilst at all times aiming to pay no more than is Contracts are drafted in line with best practice at the time the necessary.
Ordinarily, remuneration for a new executive director executive directors were appointed.
will be in line with the policy set out in the table summarised above.
Terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
However, discretion may be required for exceptional circumstances Specific provisions for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Rajas such as dealing with remuneration relinquished in a previous job.
contracts dated 2013 that are not in Grahame Gibsons The maximum level of on-going variable pay that may be awarded contract dated 2006 include: to new executive directors on recruitment or on promotion to the Following board approval, Ashley Almanza is allowed to hold board shall be limited to 400% of base salary as set out in the policy two external non-executive appointments he is currently table summarised above calculated at the date of grant, excluding a non-executive director of Noble Corporation and of Schroders any buy-out awards see below.
Remuneration and any buy-out plc, although he will stand down from the board of Noble arrangements will be announced as far as possible at the time a Corporation in the near future and retain the fees paid directly new executive director or chairman is appointed, or in the to him for the appointments.
Himanshu Raja is allowed to hold following Directors remuneration report.
one external non-executive appointment and retain any fees paid When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed directly to him for the appointment.
Grahame Gibsons contract executive director, the Remuneration Committee will apply does not specifically deal with NED positions, which will the following principles: therefore be subject solely to board discretion.
The on-going remuneration package to be designed in Mitigation obligations on termination payments are explicitly accordance with the policy table summarised above.
Notice payments for Ashley New executive directors will participate in the annual bonus Almanza are payable monthly and those for Himanshu Raja scheme and long term incentive plan on the same basis as are payable in two six-monthly instalments, in advance.
There are no express mitigation provisions in Grahame The Remuneration Committee shall have discretion to grant Gibsons contract.
one-off cash or share-based awards to executive directors where it determines that such an award is necessary to secure Non-executive directors letters of appointment: the recruitment of that executive director and where it is in the Appointment is subject to the provisions of the articles best interests of the company to do so.
Such awards would only of association of the company, as amended from time to time be made as compensation for remuneration relinquished under regarding appointment, retirement, fees, expenses, disqualification a previous employment i. e. buy-out arrangements and would be and removal of directors.
intended to mirror forfeited awards as far as possible by reflecting All continuing non-executive directors are required to stand the value, nature, time horizons and performance measures for re-election by the shareholders at least once every three attached.
In such circumstances, the company will disclose a full years, although they have agreed to submit themselves for explanation of the detail and rationale for such one-off awards.
re-election annually in accordance with the UK Corporate In certain circumstances, it may be necessary to buy out long Governance Code.
notice periods of previous employment.
Initial period of appointment is two years.
With regard to internal promotions, any commitments made All reasonably incurred expenses will be met.
before promotion and unconnected with the individuals Fees are normally reviewed annually.
promotion may continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration Committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation expenses including legal fees, as set out in the policy table.
In determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Remuneration Committee will consider a number of factors, including but not limited to external market practice, current arrangements for existing executive directors and other internal relativities.
76 76 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Loss of office payment The value of the termination payment would cover the balance of any salary and associated benefits payments due to be paid for The duration of the notice period in each of the executive directors contracts is 12 months.
the remaining notice period, the value of which will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee would consider the application of would also retain the discretion to make appropriate payments mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments necessary to finalise any settlement agreement, but in exercising where such provisions exist in the executive directors contract.
such discretion the Remuneration Committee will remain mindful to ensure that there is no reward for failure.
The contracts do not provide for the payment of a guaranteed bonus in the event of termination.
Directors other than Himanshu The fees for outplacement services and reasonable legal fees in Raja will not be eligible for bonus accrual during any period of connection with advice on a settlement agreement may be met garden leave.
In the case of Himanshu Raja, his contract provides by the company.
for such accrual although any payment would depend on the The table below illustrates how each component of pay would be discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
calculated under different circumstances: Plan Automatic good leaver categories Treatment for good leavers Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus cash All leavers other than voluntary Executive directors may receive a bonus to be Bonus opportunity element resignation and summary dismissal.
paid on the normal payment date and in will lapse.
accordance with the agreed performance measures but reduced pro-rata to reflect the time employed.
Annual bonus Injury, disability or ill health Deferred shares may be released if the executive Deferred share deferred share Redundancy director ceases employment prior to the third awards shall lapse.
element Retirement anniversary as a result of one of the good Death leaver reasons.
Termination without cause Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Performance Share Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant vesting date on Awards will lapse.
Plan previous Redundancy a time-apportioned basis, unless the Remuneration Retirement Committee determines otherwise, and subject to Death the achievement of the performance measures.
Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances, provided that the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances Long Term Incentive Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant vesting date on Awards will lapse.
Plan current Redundancy a time-apportioned basis, unless the Remuneration Retirement Committee determines otherwise, and subject to Death the achievement of performance measures at the Change of control or sale of relevant vesting date.
employing company or business The vesting date for such awards will normally Any other circumstances at be the original vesting date, unless otherwise the discretion of the determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to approve payments where the reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the prescribed good leaver category.
The committee will take account of the directors performance in office and the circumstances of their exit.
The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the departing director and the remaining directors.
Any awards subject to performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the relevant period and be subject to time apportionment.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 7777 Directors remuneration report continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2014 financial year for each executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2013.
Aggregate executive directors emoluments are shown in the final column of the table.
Certain information in 2013 relates to part years during which Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja served as executive directors: a.
For Ashley Almanza, figures for 2013 include the period from 1 April 2013 when he commenced employment and when he was Group CFO from 1 May 2013 during which time his base pay was 625,000 per annum prior to his appointment as Group CEO from 1 June 2013 when his base pay increased to 850,000 per annum.
For Himanshu Raja, figures for 2013 are from his appointment date on 7 October 2013 and this includes the period from 1 October 2013.
Benefits include car allowance, business related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance.
Benefit values include the cost of certain travel, overnight accommodation and meals which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the company will pay tax in due course as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
The grossed-up amounts for 2014 are 43,541 for Ashley Almanza, 59,521 for Himanshu Raja and 14,861 for Grahame Gibson.
Benefit values also include local travel costs of 9,180 and 22,320 for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja respectively who bear the tax themselves and other business costs which HMRC deems to be benefits.
In 2014 for Grahame Gibson, the benefits value includes a total value of 31,257 relating to flights for him and his family between the UK and US.
The benefits values for 2014 also include taxes met by the company in respect of certain expenses which were incurred in 2013.
Part of Mr Gibsons salary is paid in sterling and part in US$.
The US$ element has been converted into sterling for the purposes of reporting, at the exchange rates prevailing in each month in which Grahame Gibson was paid.
The average exchange rate during the year was $1.65055 $1.564933 in 2013.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years.
In addition, Ashley Almanza received 122,500 from Schroders plc and a fee of $96,000 as well as shares valued at $230,993 from Noble Corporation from his non-executive directorships referred to on page 76 and retained such remuneration.
Non-executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2014 financial year for each non-executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2013.
Aggregate non-executive directors emoluments are shown in the last column of the table.
Mark Elliott was appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee and senior independent director on 6 June 2013.
Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as chair of the CSR Committee on 6 June 2013.
Mark Seligman stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee on 5 June 2014.
Tim Weller was appointed as Chair of the Audit committee on 6 June 2014.
Benefit values include the cost of overnight accommodation, travel and meals which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the company will pay tax in due course as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
The 2013 benefits values differ from the figures reported in the 2013 remuneration report in some cases following a review of the calculation methodology.
This is mainly related to the classification of the reimbursement for flights to attend board meetings.
78 78 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance Further notes to the single total figure of Himanshu Raja remuneration tables % of maximum Score 2014 Annual bonus Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved During the financial year ending 31 December 2014, the Group PBTA 279m 304m 70% 70% performance measures relating to the annual bonus scheme Group OCF 511m 553m 15% 15% rules were consistent with the remuneration policy, with 85% of Total 85% 85% the bonus for all executive directors based on achievement of Non-financial objectives were set in the following areas: challenging financial performance measures set at the beginning Health & Safety of the year.
The financial performance measures that applied to People, capability building, values and organisation Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja were based on budgeted group profit before tax and amortisation and budgeted group operating Governance & control cash flow before capital expenditure.
The financial performance Operational Excellence measures for Grahame Gibson consisted of four financial objectives, Cost Leadership initiatives three of which were for the Americas region and the fourth was 15% of maximum bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures related to group PBTA.
On-target performance would result in and the level of achievement was assessed at 10%.
a payment of 60% of maximum entitlement, with 100% only being Grahame Gibson earned in the event of achievement of a stretch performance % of significantly in excess of budget.
maximum Score Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved The remaining 15% was linked to objectives relating to non-financial Group PBTA 279m 304m 15% 15% performance, which consist of personal objectives or relate to the Regional PBITA 118m 114m 40% 19.04% organisation.
In line with all senior business leaders across the group, Regional Organic Growth 8.1% 9.2% 15% 15% the executive directors personal performance-related objectives Regional OCF 138m 110m 15% 0 included an objective on health and safety.
Total 85% 49.04% The maximum bonus potential has remained unchanged from Non-financial objectives were set in the following areas: 2013.
It is 150% of base pay for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja and 125% of base pay for Grahame Gibson.
Bonuses are paid Health & Safety in cash up to 50% of maximum entitlement.
Where the bonus Business Development growth amount is in excess of 50% of the maximum bonus potential, the Operational Excellence amount which exceeds 50% will be delivered in the form of a People, Organisation & values deferred share award which vests after a period of three years.
Cost leadership initiatives The tables below show how pay was linked to performance in 2014 15% of maximum bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures and set out details of each of the financial measures the targets in and the level of achievement was assessed at 8%.
respect of these measures and the actual outcomes: The table below sets out the annual bonus awards which were made to executive directors in respect of the financial year Ashley Almanza ending 31 December 2014: % of maximum Score 2014 annual Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved 2014 annual bonus 2014 annual bonus % of deferred % Group PBTA 279m 304m 70% 70% bonus salary of salary Group OCF 511m 553m 15% 15% Ashley Almanza 1,308,300 147% 72% Total 85% 85% Himanshu Raja 890,625 142% 68% Grahame Gibson 439,823 71% 9% Non-financial objectives were set in the following areas: Health and Safety Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement Strategy is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years: People, organisation & values Deferred Governance Cash shares Ashley Almanza 667,500 640,800 Stakeholder Engagement Himanshu Raja 468,750 421,875 15 % of maximum bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures Grahame Gibson 380,678 59,145 and the level of achievement was assessed at 13%.
Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP value shown in the single figure table relates to the 2012 PSP awards made in March 2012.
The performance measures were earnings per share growth and relative total shareholder return.
Neither of these performance tests were met and the outstanding award lapsed.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 7979 Directors remuneration report continued TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AUDITED INFORMATION Neither Ashley Almanza nor Himanshu Raja is a member of the groups pension plan, which is a defined contribution group personal pension plan available to all UK employees.
Instead they receive cash allowances of 25% and 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Grahame Gibson ceased accruing pensions under the companys defined benefit scheme in 2006.
A salary supplement in lieu of pension of 40% of basic salary was paid.
His accrued pension at the relevant dates in the defined benefits scheme all figures are in 000s is shown in the table below.
Total accrued Total accrued Pension input Pension input annual annual Normal amount amount pension at pension at Date accrual retirement 2014 2013 31 12 14 31 12 13 ceased date Grahame Gibson 0 0 24.2 21.7 6 4 2006 17 1 2013 Notes: 1.
In 2011, Grahame Gibson transferred the majority of his pension benefits to a private pension arrangement leaving a residual pension payable from age 60.
Grahame Gibson has passed normal retirement date and the accrued pension shown includes the application of a late retirement factor.
The earliest date when entitlement to a pension arises without consent and without actuarial reduction is age 60 the normal retirement date.
On 3 March 2015, Grahame Gibson transferred his remaining and residual pension benefits in an amount of 363,188 to a private pension arrangement.
The transfer value was calculated using the same actuarial basis as that used by the trustees of the pension scheme for all members.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Awards under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the companys AGM in June 2014 were made in July 2014.
They were, however, deemed to have been made in March in order to be consistent with the companys normal grant policy.
Details of the awards made to the executive directors are summarised in the table below and further details are given in the table on directors shareholdings and interests on page 81: Number of Face value EPS, TSR and AOCF % vesting at Director Award type shares Performance condition Performance period threshold Ashley Almanza Conditional shares 962,370 2,225,000 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2014 31 12 2016 25% Grahame Gibson Conditional shares 463,615 1,071,880 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2014 31 12 2016 25% Himanshu Raja Conditional shares 540,657 1,250,000 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2014 31 12 2016 25% 1.
The face value calculation was based on a share price of 2.312 which represents the average closing share price during the three business days following the announcement of the companys 2013 financial results.
Further details on performance conditions are set out in the table below PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR LONG TERM INCENTIVES AWARDED IN 2014 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth in Proportion of Ranking against the bespoke Proportion of Average operating cash Proportion of EPS period ending on 31 allocation vesting comparator group by allocation vesting flow allocation vesting December in the third year reference to TSR Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 years 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between 25% Between median and upper Pro-rata between 25% Between 105% and 125% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% quartile and 100% and 100% Greater than 12% pa 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 36% over 3 years The bespoke comparator group consists of companies constituent The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets of the FTSE 100 index corrected to exclude financial institutions have been achieved by reference to the companys audited accounts and companies in the extractive sector and include competitor which provide an accessible and objective measure of the companies which are outside that index.
The committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares is no longer incentivising.
TSR ranking will be verified externally.
Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of LTIP awards, vesting at the end of the performance period.
80 80 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTEREST AUDITED INFORMATION The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 277.90p per share at 31 December 2014.
Number of shares owned outright Number of Total shares Share Deferred under LTIP ownership Shareholding shares held as awards subject requirements requirements 2014 2013 at 31 12 14 to performance % of salary achieved Ashley Almanza 100,000 100,000 85,640 1,739,407 200% 31% Himanshu Raja 50,000 0 50,686 888,188 150% 22% Grahame Gibson 657,553 659,208 0 1,111,310 150% 100% Notes: 1.
Deferred share awards and PSP or LTIP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which are paid in respect of shares received.
The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the companys employee benefit trust.
As at 31 December 2014, the trustees of the employee benefit trust held 6,408,450 shares 2013 6,934,564.
Includes any shares owned by connected persons.
The table does not include the deferred shares awarded to Ashley Almanza, Himanshu Raja and Grahame Gibson in respect of the portion of their annual bonus for the 2014 financial year which exceeds 50% of their respective maximum bonus entitlement.
There were no vested but unexercised interests.
The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
As at As at 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 John Connolly 200,000 100,000 Adam Crozier 2,000 0 Mark Elliott 25,000 25,000 Winnie Fok 20,000 20,000 Mark Seligman 75,496 75,496 Paul Spence 10,000 10,000 Clare Spottiswoode 4,681 4,681 Tim Weller 37,570 37,570 There have been no changes in the interests of each of the directors between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
There are no requirements for the non-executive directors or former directors to hold shares once they have left the company.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION No payments have been made to former directors of the company during the financial year ended 31 December 2014 other than those payments set out below Payments for loss of office.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED INFORMATION Trevor Dighton Trevor Dighton, who stepped down as a director of the company in June 2013, ceased to be an employee on 30 July 2014.
Mr Dighton was entitled under the terms of his contract to payment comprising the following until his departure: Base pay of 42,500 per month Car allowance of 1,333.33 per month Cash allowance in lieu of pension of 17,000 per month The total payment made for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 July 2014 was 425,833.
No further payment is due to be made.
Trevor Dighton has not received any bonus in respect of the year under review.
His unvested awards under the PSP were subject to performance and were pro-rated to 30 July 2014.
The award made in 2012 did not vest as the performance tests were not met.
The award made in 2013 remains subject to performance which will be tested at the normal vesting date.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 8181 Directors remuneration report continued PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The line graph below shows the nine-year annual Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index.
The directors believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison given the size and geographic coverage of the company and the fact that the company is itself a member of the FTSE100.
Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June 2013.
After July 2011, the CEOs total single figure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension.
This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% of base pay for Ashley Almanza.
Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included.
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised have been included in the prior years CEOs total figures since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
The figures before 2013 did not include taxable expenses G4S employs over 623,000 employees globally.
Inflation is a key PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEOS REMUNERATION driver of general increases in salary and the structure of the The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs benefits provided is often driven by the local market practice.
salary, benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 compares with Hence, as the Group CEO is based in the UK, employees in the the percentage change in the average of each of those components same country rather than all employees within the group have been of pay for a selected group of G4S employees.
The Remuneration chosen as the comparator.
Committee has chosen all employees in the UK as the group which should provide the most appropriate comparator.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY Percentage change in remuneration The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on between 2013 and 2014 pay compared with other disbursements from profit.
Annual Salary Benefits Bonus Disbursements 2014 2013 Change Dividends paid 138m 130m 6.2% CEO 5.7% 18% 101% SSSee note Total employee costs 4,952m 5,333m 7.2% Average change for all other UK employees 2.9% 3.3% below Restated for IFRS 10 and 11.
Information on bonuses is not readily available for all other UK employees.
There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
82 82 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Governance STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF These are based on the groups core values and cover the following key areas: REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 Health & Safety A summary of the directors remuneration policy is set out Growth, Market Share and Reputation on pages 72 to 77 and the full policy can also be found on Best People www.
Operational Excellence Executive directors remuneration Cost leadership Values Retirements As reported in October 2014, Grahame Gibson will retire from Mr Gibsons bonus will be measured solely against the financial the board at the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2015. measures mentioned above.
Details of the performance measures and targets are deemed to be commercially sensitive since they relate to the The committee will consider the retirement arrangements for 2015 financial year.
To the extent that they are no longer commercially Mr Gibson over the coming months, and we will provide full sensitive, targets and performance levels against them will be disclosed disclosure of these arrangements in next years report.
in the companys 2015 annual report and accounts.
The proposed Base pay target levels for 2015 have been set to be challenging and align with the For 2015, at the annual pay review, it was decided to increase business plan.
In reviewing the targets, the committee took into account Ashley Almanzas and Himanshu Rajas base pay by 3% from a number of factors including for example the fact that in relation to 890,000 and 625,000 respectively to 916,700 and group earnings, the minimum target that needs to be met in order for 643,750 respectively.
No change was made to the base pay any bonus to be payable must be at least equal to the earnings in 2014. of Grahame Gibson.
The committee considered the proposed targets relating to nonfinancial measures and concluded that these were also demanding.
Annual Bonus Scheme The annual bonus for the 2015 financial year will operate on Long Term Incentive Plan the same basis as that for 2014 and will be consistent with the The level of awards due to be granted in the 2015 financial year remuneration policy.
The maximum bonus opportunity remains at under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM 150% of base pay for both Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja will be consistent with the remuneration policy.
As for 2014, the and 125% of base pay for Grahame Gibson.
The financial measures Remuneration Committee considers that a combination of earnings are group earnings and operating cash flow.
These have been per share growth, total shareholder return and cumulative cash flow selected as they support the companys key strategic objectives.
As targets are the most appropriate performance measures for the for last year, the financial measures are allocated an 85% weighting.
2015 awards, as they provide a transparent method of assessing For Messrs Almanza and Raja non-financial measures will account the companys performance, both in terms of underlying financial again for up to 15% of their maximum bonus opportunity.
performance and returns to shareholders.
Awards granted under the LTIP during the 2015 financial year are subject to the performance conditions listed in the table below: PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR LONG TERM INCENTIVES AWARDED IN 2015 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth in Proportion of Ranking against the Proportion of Average operating Proportion of EPS period ending on 31 allocation vesting bespoke comparator group allocation vesting cash flow allocation vesting December in the third year by reference to TSR Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 years 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between 25% Between median and Pro-rata between 25% Between 105% and 125% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% upper quartile and 100% and 100% Greater than 12% pa 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 36% over 3 years The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares Adjustments to the EPS will be made in respect of: to satisfy LTIP awards.
Constant exchange rates in line with previous years, these will be normalised to the rates in the base year Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with Acquisitions earnings will be added to the EPS base at the level a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid used in the acquisition business case in respect of LTIP awards vesting at the end of the Disposals earnings will be removed from the EPS base at the performance period.
business plan rate The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets Share buy-back the company will only execute buy-backs if the have been achieved by reference to the companys audited accounts investment is economically accretive and it is in the interest of the which provide an accessible and objective measure of the company.
The adjusted EPS for the purposes of calculating companys earnings per share.
performance against the LTIP target shall be further adjusted by a increasing the average number of shares in issue during the performance year by the number of shares bought back during the past three years b Decreasing the net interest cost in the performance year in respect of the interest charge on the cash cost of any share buy backs during the past three years.
Interest will be calculated at the groups average costs of funds for the year.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 8383 Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee will apply discretion in the event of impairment.
If the impairment is not a result of management failure, then it will not impact the payout.
The Remuneration Committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising.
Operating cash flow is a measure taken before capital expenditure and investments to ensure that management is not incentivised to under-invest in growth opportunities.
Operating cash flow is expressed as EBITDA - working capital and provisions movement as a percentage of EBITDA.
Average operating cash flow is the average over three years.
Non-executive directors remuneration The fees payable to the non-executive directors are set by the executive directors and the chairman.
The fees payable to the non-executive chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
In both cases, fees are reviewed mid-year.
ADVISORS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE For 2014, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Deloitte as the committees appointed advisor on executive and senior management remuneration matters.
Towers Watson provided management remuneration information in respect of senior management who are not on the board.
The Remuneration Committee has satisfied itself as to the independence of Deloitte.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under its code of conduct in the UK.
Advisor Appointment Services provided to Remuneration Committee Fees for Other services provided to Company services to Rem Co Towers Watson 2006 Information on executive remuneration and pay benchmarking 23,005 Provision of market remuneration data for senior management, collation of pension data for accounting purposes and pensions advice Deloitte 2014 Advice on executive remuneration 57,200 Advice on controls, tax advice on expatriate and share plans, and also provided other consulting services.
These services were provided by different parts of Deloitte.
Alithos 2007 TSR vesting indications for in-flight plans, verifying the TSR 10,000 None vesting percentage and advice on potential peer companies Fees for services to the Remuneration Committee are at an agreed rate based STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING on time involved.
At the companys Annual General Meeting which took place on Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HSF provided legal advice to 5 June 2014, two ordinary resolutions were passed, one to approve the company, including in relation to the operation of the the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in the annual report for companys incentive arrangements and on executive directors the year ended 31 December 2013 and another to receive and service agreements.
This advice was available to be considered by approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended the Remuneration Committee.
The group chief executive, Ashley Almanza, provided guidance The results of the vote are set out in the table below: to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration packages for Resolution For Against Withheld senior executives within the group.
Further guidance was received Directors Remuneration Policy 98.38% 1.62% 787,216 from the groups HR director, Irene Cowden and the director of Directors Remuneration Report 98.25% 1.75% 37,767,285 compensation and benefits Sok Wah Lee.
Neither the group chief executive nor the group HR director participated in discussions Mark Elliott regarding their own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee Chairman The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice it received 26 March 2015 during the year was objective and independent based on the experience of its members generally.
Information about who are the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at meetings of the committee during the year under review can be found on page 71.
84 84 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014
