Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy incentivises to deliver long term value for our shareholders Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chairman The remuneration committees unanimous view was that the Groups Dear Shareholder performance supported the executive directors remuneration this year.
Our executive directors have delivered a strong set of results aligned with It is my pleasure to present the directors remuneration our strategy.
The Group remains in a good financial position with strong cash report for the year ended 28 June 2014. generation and a robust balance sheet.
Over the year, the Groups market capitalisation has increased by 59.7% to 1.0bn and over the three year In line with the new reporting regulations which came into effect in 2013, period by 49.2%.
a number of which we adopted early last year, the report that follows my annual statement has been split into two parts: The total remuneration for our executive directors has increased when compared to last year for two key reasons.
Firstly, the quantum of annual the directors remuneration policy which sets out the Groups remuneration performance-related bonus was higher with a total of 146.25% payable policy for directors for the next three years.
This policy is subject to a binding out of a potential maximum of 150% of salary 2013: 83%.
The annual bonus shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and after that at least every third year: and this year rewarded the achievement of the majority of the business objectives the annual report on remuneration which sets out i payments and awards set at the start of the year.
These included challenging Group profit, cashflow made to the directors and details the link between Group performance and and non-financial targets, the full details of which can be found remuneration for the year ended 28 June 2014 and ii how the remuneration on pages 75 and 76. policy will be implemented for the year ending 27 June 2015.
This report Secondly, the Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted to the executive together with my annual statement is subject to an advisory vote at the directors shortly after they joined the Group in 2011 will also vest, with 2014 AGM.
80% out of a maximum 100% of salary being payable in shares 2013:0%.
The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year It is important to highlight that this is the first of the long term incentive ended 28 June 2014 is shown below: awards to be eligible for vesting, both executive directors now having served 2014 2013 on the Board of Go-Ahead for over three years.
This long term incentive award 000 000 rewarded the successful implementation of long term value creation targets set Group Chief Executive David Brown 1,960 942 three years ago and which included stretching total shareholder return, earnings Group Finance Director Keith Down 1,299 646 per share and strategic target measures.
Full details of the performance against targets supporting these awards can be found on page 76.
Our remuneration policy seeks to attract and retain high quality executive record passenger numbers in bus and rail: directors who are fully incentivised to deliver outstanding performance.
profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 25.4% to 79.1m: In setting the remuneration policy, we have sought to provide a strong and transparent link between incentives and the Groups performance.
adjusted, continuing earnings per share increased by 26.2% to 148.6p: During the year, our executive directors delivered a strong financial and share price increased by 59.7% to 23.67 and, over the three year strategic performance in both bus and rail, with overall results significantly period to 28 June 2014, the increase was 49.2%: ahead of initial expectations at the beginning of the year.
The highlights proposed full year dividend increased to 84.5p per share in line with of the year included: progressive policy: won the UKs largest rail franchise, Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern TSGN : strong cash management allowing increased investment and reduced net debt: good progress towards bus operating profit target of 100m by 2015 16: re-financing the Group's bank debt on more favourable terms: and rail division operating profit significantly ahead of initial expectations: achievement of all key financial targets against a challenging operational and political climate.
good underlying growth in revenue and passenger journeys: The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A large proportion of the executive directors remuneration is payable in Directors remuneration policy shares.
Half of the total annual performance-related bonus is awarded as In this section of the report, we set out the remuneration policy for the deferred shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to clawback Group operating from 29 June 2014 and which will become formally effective provisions.
The long term incentive bonus will also be payable in shares and following approval from shareholders through a binding vote at the 2014 AGM.
the net of tax effect of this will be to considerably increase the shareholdings We do not envisage making any changes to our policy over the next three of our executive directors such that they are closer to the Boards policy years: however, we will review our policy each year to ensure that it remains which is to build up and maintain a holding of shares with a value equivalent appropriate.
If we feel it necessary to make a change to our policy within the to at least base salary.
This of course further aligns the interests of our next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
executive directors with those of our shareholders.
Policy overview During the year, our executive directors were awarded base salary increases of no more than the average inflationary increase awarded to all employees The remuneration committees remuneration principles are to ensure that across the Group for the third consecutive year.
remuneration incentivises our executive directors to deliver long term value for our shareholders.
Remuneration levels must therefore be at a level that We consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder representative promotes the attraction, motivation and retention of high calibre individuals bodies regarding changes to our remuneration policy for the 2013 14 financial to deliver performance that will meet the strategic objectives of the Group.
year and were pleased with the 93.56% approval for our directors remuneration report last year.
Considerations when determining Our remuneration policy for the forthcoming year will be operated remuneration policy on a similar basis with only minor changes as outlined on page 71.
The remuneration committee considers shareholder feedback received and We look to shareholders to approve the report at the forthcoming AGM.
guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally when reviewing remuneration policy.
A substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is performance-related, with half of the annual bonus also being subject to deferral into the Groups shares.
A broad range of financial and non-financial targets are included in Katherine Innes Ker, our incentive structure and clawback provisions apply to all of the bonus.
Remuneration Committee Chairman When setting the remuneration of the executive directors, the committee 3 September 2014 ensures that the incentive structure does not raise risks by inadvertently encouraging irresponsible behaviour.
Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy.
The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and governance matters seriously and to consider About this report the long term implications of their decision making.
Accordingly, in line with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements ABIs guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-Sized Companies a proportion of the annual bonus to the achievement of safety and and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, good governance objectives.
which came into force on 1 October 2013 and which set out the In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the remuneration new reporting requirements in respect of directors remuneration packages offered to employees across the Group.
As a point of principle, and the Listing Rules.
The legislation requires the external auditor salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration are benchmarked to state whether, in their opinion, the parts of the report that are regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the markets in which we operate.
subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across the the relevant legislation and these parts have been highlighted.
businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and geographical location.
When considering annual salary increases, the committee reviews the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally, as it does for any other changes to remuneration policy being considered.
The Group did not formally consult with employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy.
However, the Group considers any informal feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
com 69 Directors remuneration report continued Summary of remuneration policy operated from 29 June 2014 onwards The table below summarises the main components of Go-Aheads proposed remuneration policy for the executive directors for 2014 15.
Executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
Element & maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary is the core reward for the role and enables the Paid monthly in cash Details of the salaries for each of n a Base salary Group to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre In determining base salaries, the committee considers: the executive directors, effective required to deliver its strategic objectives and lead its pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity from 1 April 2014, are shown on management team, without paying more than is necessary.
in the FTSE 250 page 75 Base salary also reflects the individuals skills, expertise, external market conditions Annual salary increases for the experience and role within the Group pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group executive directors will not individual performance, skills, experience in post normally exceed the average and potential increase awarded to other UKSalaries are reviewed annually with changes taking effect based employees.
However, larger from 1 April each year increases may be awarded in The remuneration committee may also review salaries on certain circumstances including but an ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and or there is not limited to: an increase in their responsibilities increase in scope of responsibilities of the role to apply salary progression for a newly appointed director where a director's salary has fallen significantly below market position Focuses on the key priorities for the coming year Annual, non-pensionable payments made after the AGM 65% of bonus based Maximum of 150% of salary Performance-related Measured against key financial, non-financial, personal Half of any bonus is paid as cash and half is paid as deferred on Group financial bonus PRB and short term strategic objectives shares held in the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP for a performance Deferral of half of bonus into Group shares aligns period of three years 10% of bonus determined executive directors interests with those of shareholders Based on the achievement of specific financial and by cash targets non-financial objectives 25% of bonus based on Clawback provisions apply to the full bonus individual strategic goals Any deferred shares awarded will have been purchased A quality of earnings review, in the market and health and safety target thresholds, apply to the full bonus Aligned to the strategic objectives of the Group to Annual grant of nil-cost options to acquire shares Maximum of 100% of salary Performance measured Long term incentive deliver long term returns to shareholders subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions over three years plan LTIP The earnings per share EPS target was chosen No re-setting of performance conditions Compound annual growth as it is an important growth measure and a driver in EPS 30% of total award of shareholder value Relative TSR The total shareholder return TSR target was chosen 30% of total award as it improves shareholder alignment and is consistent Group operating profit with providing long term returns to shareholders target 40% of total award The Group operating profit target was chosen to link challenging financial performance with long term value creation Provides a cash alternative to pension contributions Paid monthly in cash The Group Finance Director n a Pension allowance in line with market practice Non-pensionable cash alternative to pension contributions receives a non-pensionable cash Group Finance alternative of 13% of salary Director only The Group Chief Executive does not receive any pension allowance Ensures package is competitive with market practice Family private health care, death in service and life n a n a Other benefits assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on the Groups services and professional membership subscriptions Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC Executive directors may participate in these plans in line Participation levels operate in n a All-employee approved all-employee schemes which encourage share with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, accordance with HMRC limits share plans ownership on the same basis as other eligible employees as amended from time to time To align the financial interests of the executive directors Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post- 100% of salary holding for n a Share ownership with those of shareholders tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until executive directors such time as they have achieved a holding of 100% of salary The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Changes to remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the 2014 15 year will be operated on a similar Element & maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets basis to that which was operated in 2013 14.
In choosing the performance Salary is the core reward for the role and enables the Paid monthly in cash Details of the salaries for each of n a Base salary metrics and targets we have sought to provide a strong and demonstrable link Group to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre In determining base salaries, the committee considers: the executive directors, effective between management incentives and the Groups strategic objectives.
We have required to deliver its strategic objectives and lead its pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity from 1 April 2014, are shown on also sought to set a performance-based framework for remuneration which management team, without paying more than is necessary.
in the FTSE 250 page 75 is consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances.
This enables the Base salary also reflects the individuals skills, expertise, external market conditions Annual salary increases for the executive directors and senior managers to share in the long term success of experience and role within the Group pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group executive directors will not the Group without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging short term individual performance, skills, experience in post normally exceed the average measures or excessive risk taking.
It also aligns their interests with those of and potential increase awarded to other UKSalaries are reviewed annually with changes taking effect based employees.
from 1 April each year increases may be awarded in The choice of performance measures for the PRB and LTIP this year is based The remuneration committee may also review salaries on certain circumstances including but on a mixture of financial, non-financial, personal and strategic targets, with a an ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and or there is not limited to: clear alignment to the Groups short term and long term strategic objectives.
an increase in their responsibilities increase in scope of For the LTIP we have changed the allocation of the constituent parts such that: responsibilities of the role the compound growth in EPS and relative TSR targets will each now account to apply salary progression for for 30% of the award previously 25% : and a newly appointed director instead of separate bus and rail division profit targets of 25% each, an overall where a director's salary has Group operating profit target will now apply to 40% of the award.
fallen significantly below market position Details of the specific metrics chosen for each of the PRB and LTIP for the Focuses on the key priorities for the coming year Annual, non-pensionable payments made after the AGM 65% of bonus based Maximum of 150% of salary Performance-related coming year are set out on pages 81 and 82.
Measured against key financial, non-financial, personal Half of any bonus is paid as cash and half is paid as deferred on Group financial bonus PRB and short term strategic objectives shares held in the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP for a performance Consistency with remuneration for the wider Group Deferral of half of bonus into Group shares aligns period of three years 10% of bonus determined Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on executive directors interests with those of shareholders Based on the achievement of specific financial and by cash targets the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain high non-financial objectives 25% of bonus based on calibre talent and that reward should support the delivery of business strategy.
Clawback provisions apply to the full bonus individual strategic goals Any deferred shares awarded will have been purchased A quality of earnings review, Through our devolved structure, local management are empowered to create in the market and health and safety target remuneration packages on an individual business-by-business basis.
Therefore thresholds, apply to the full the components and levels of remuneration for different employees will differ bonus from the policy for executive directors as set out above.
All employees are Aligned to the strategic objectives of the Group to Annual grant of nil-cost options to acquire shares Maximum of 100% of salary Performance measured Long term incentive entitled to base salary and benefits and may also receive bonus, pension and deliver long term returns to shareholders subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions over three years share awards which vary according to local business and market practice.
The plan LTIP The earnings per share EPS target was chosen No re-setting of performance conditions Compound annual growth maximum provision and incentive opportunity available are determined by the as it is an important growth measure and a driver in EPS 30% of total award seniority and responsibility of the role.
of shareholder value Relative TSR Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only while The total shareholder return TSR target was chosen 30% of total award participation in the DSBP is limited to executive directors and senior as it improves shareholder alignment and is consistent Group operating profit management.
with providing long term returns to shareholders target 40% of total award The Group operating profit target was chosen to It is an important part of Go-Aheads values that all colleagues, not just link challenging financial performance with long term management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Group.
value creation All employees, with at least six months of continuous service, therefore have Provides a cash alternative to pension contributions Paid monthly in cash The Group Finance Director n a the opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive Plan.
During the year, a Pension allowance in line with market practice Non-pensionable cash alternative to pension contributions receives a non-pensionable cash new Sharesave scheme was also offered to all employees with at least six Group Finance alternative of 13% of salary months service.
Director only The Group Chief Executive does not receive any pension allowance Ensures package is competitive with market practice Family private health care, death in service and life n a n a Other benefits assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on the Groups services and professional membership subscriptions Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC Executive directors may participate in these plans in line Participation levels operate in n a All-employee approved all-employee schemes which encourage share with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, accordance with HMRC limits share plans ownership on the same basis as other eligible employees as amended from time to time To align the financial interests of the executive directors Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post- 100% of salary holding for n a Share ownership with those of shareholders tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until executive directors such time as they have achieved a holding of 100% of salary www.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment remuneration Service contracts of executive directors The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director entered into On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek to a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 April 2011 and align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the Groups 7 March 2011 respectively.
The term of each service contract is undefined remuneration policy and would take into account the package as a whole.
and is terminable by either the Group on one year's notice or by the executive It would not pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate and director on six month's notice.
the package would take into account the experience and calibre of the individual concerned.
External appointments Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the In accordance with their service contracts, the executive directors are able Group may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate.
to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees paid for Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for payments such services, provided that approval is given by the Board.
The Group Finance under incentive plans joined and or contractual arrangements entered into Director does not hold any external appointments.
The Group Chief Executive before joining the Board.
However, the committee will have regard to best is a non-executive director of the Association of Train Operating Companies practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
Limited and Rail Delivery Group Limited: however, he does not receive any fees in these roles.
The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary to compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their previous Departure of executive directors employers.
In some circumstances the level and timing of such compensation Executive directors service contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the will normally seek to reflect or take account of the term and performance discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination conditions of the payments or awards forgone on a like-for-like basis.
Such payments are limited to base salary plus certain benefits Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards of options but would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
over Group shares but cash and or time-vested payments may be made There are no provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early where the committee believes these would offer better value for money retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive for shareholders.
The committee is sensitive to investor concerns about directors are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event of such arrangements and will endeavour to take cost-effective approaches.
early termination of a service contract.
The remuneration committee believes that the contracts provide as much scope as is feasible to protect the interests No such compensation was paid to the incumbent Group Chief Executive of shareholders when negotiating a termination, at which time the committee or Group Finance Director upon appointment.
would take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his her loss when determining the amount of any compensation.
Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2014 15 pay packages A significant proportion of executive directors potential remuneration is performance-related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the performancerelated bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP.
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Fixed Target Fixed Target Maximum Maximum LTIP % Bonus % Fixed % LTIP % Bonus % Fixed % The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
For fixed remuneration, this includes base salary as at 1 April 2014, benefits, and for the Group Finance Director only, the value of his pension allowance.
For target remuneration, the annual performance-related bonus and long term incentives are based on the performance targets in the directors remuneration policy operated from 29 June 2014 onwards, applied to base salary as at 1 April 2014.
For the annual bonus, the target remuneration for the Group operating profit and cashflow metrics are in line with the maximum bonus opportunity: this is because the maximum bonus opportunity requires performance to be in line with the Groups budget for 2014 15.
The committee believes that to achieve budget, which is considered to be very stretching, would be a significant performance and deserve payment of maximum bonus.
No annual bonus would be payable until Group operating profit exceeds that achieved in 2013 14, which was considered to be a very good result and significantly ahead of expectations.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis between these two points.
Any bonus payable would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares and all bonus is subject to clawback provisions.
For the long term incentives, which do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, target remuneration is in line with vesting at threshold performance which is 25% for EPS and TSR metrics and 50% for the Group operating profit metric.
For maximum remuneration, this is the maximum annual performance-related bonus payable and full vesting of long term incentives awards.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 100 537 37 50 13 1,441 29 43 28 1,867 100 389 40 48 12 969 31 41 28 1,242 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
However, the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply: Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy, ill-health or disability, death or change of ownership Other leavers e. g. resignation misconduct Salary and contractual Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any contractual benefits Paid to date of termination, including pay for benefits for the notice period including any accrued or untaken holiday any accrued but untaken holiday Performance-related Bonus awarded subject to satisfaction of performance targets for the relevant financial year, No award for year of termination bonus cash pro-rated accordingly for the period of employment to the date of cessation of employment Performance-related Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment bonus deferred shares Unvested LTIP awards Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment, unless the remuneration committee Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment determines the award should vest at normal vesting date The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at the date the award is deemed to vest Awards will normally be reduced pro-rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment Non-executive directors Remuneration policy The remuneration policy for non-executive directors is set out in the table below.
Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors is The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely of fees, a fixed annual fee commensurate with the time each director which are set annually by the Board.
is expected to spend on the Groups affairs and with the The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as set out in the Groups responsibility assumed as a director of a listed company.
articles of association aggregate fees of 500,000 for all non-executive directors.
Fees are set at a level to attract and retain individuals with Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with reference to comparable listed appropriate expertise to complement the Groups strategy.
Additional fees The additional fee payable to a non-executive director who Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive performance-related payable for duties is Chairman of a Board committee reflects the additional remuneration or pension entitlements or to participate in share option schemes.
responsibility and time commitment required.
Reimbursement of reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are applicable.
New appointments The same principles as described above will be applied in setting the remuneration of a new non-executive director.
Remuneration will comprise fees only, to be paid at the prevailing rates for the Groups existing non-executive directors.
No variable remuneration will be paid and there will be no compensation for any loss of remuneration arrangements in previous employment.
The remuneration committee reserves the right to assess the level of fee payable to a new non-executive chairman.
This will take into account the skills, experience and time required to undertake the role, as well as fee levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250 and external market conditions.
Letters of appointment Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below.
Date of service Notice period Notice period Director contract from the Group from the Director Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months Retirement and re-election of directors In accordance with the Groups articles of association and the provisions of the Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the Groups AGM on 24 October 2014. www.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Introduction Remuneration committee This section details the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors including the Chairman during the financial year ended 28 June overview 2014.
Together with the Chairman of the remuneration committees annual statement on pages 68 and 69, it will be proposed for an advisory vote by Remuneration committee membership shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration committee meetings Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chairman Andrew Allner Chairman The committee met five times during the year, excluding meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
Details Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director of members attendance at committee meetings can be found on page 55.
Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director Composition compliant with Provision D. 2.1 of the Code Role of the committee Committee Secretary The committees principal responsibilities are to: Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: remuneration policy: David Brown Group Chief Executive determine and approve the remuneration policy for the executive directors Keith Down Group Finance Director and senior management, including bonuses and share awards and the balance between the fixed and performance-related elements of pay: regularly review the design and targets for performance-related pay 2013 14 remuneration committee highlights arrangements and approve the total annual payments made under the same: In addition to the remuneration committees principle responsibilities determine the policy for executive directors service agreements, including detailed under Role of the committee, we set out below our key recruitment and termination payment policies: highlights during the year ended 28 June 2014, which can be broadly oversee the salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management divided into four areas: within the Group: and Setting targets determine the fees of the Chairman.
Setting the business and personal performance targets for 2013 14 annual bonuses aligned with the corporate plan for the year The members of the committee have no personal interests in the matters to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no Setting the performance targets that would apply to the 2013 14 conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
Committee members LTIP awards did not attend meetings where matters associated with their own Review of 2014 15 annual bonus framework remuneration were considered.
Reviewing outcomes During the year, the committees recommendations were all accepted Reviewing the performance-related bonus outcomes and award unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
levels for 2012 13 and indicative 2013 14 outcomes ahead of final Terms of reference approval in 2014 The committees terms of reference are reviewed at least annually and Testing of performance conditions and approval of LTIP awards approved by the Board, and are available on our corporate website at granted to the former Group Chief Executive www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Reward framework External advisors to the committee Agreeing the base salaries for the executive directors and senior New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc management with effect from 1 April 2014 using the same process act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee.
The advisor was as applied to the wider employee population selected through a thorough process led by the Chairman of the remuneration Governance committee and was appointed by the committee.
Neither Aon Hewitt Limited Considering the final Department for Business, Innovation & Skills nor the wider Aon plc provided any other services to the Group during the regulations on executive pay and how these will be integrated into year and therefore the committee was satisfied that it provided objective and future remuneration strategy independent advice.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct.
The fees payable to Agreeing the remuneration report for 2012 13 and preliminary New Bridge Street for advice throughout the year were 19,079 2013: 21,366. discussion of revised disclosures in the 2013 14 remuneration report Shareholder voting at the last AGM 2014 15 remuneration committee priorities At last years AGM 24 October 2013 the directors remuneration report In addition to setting targets and reviewing outcomes, the committee received the following votes from shareholders: will also focus on the following priorities: Total number % of Continue to monitor the ongoing balance between long term and of votes votes cast short term incentives and to ensure that they remain appropriately For 23,271,224 93.56% aligned to the Groups growth strategy Against 1,465,475 5.89% Ensure the 2014 15 directors remuneration report is consistent Discretionary 135,988 0.55% with regulatory and industry best practice Total votes cast excluding withheld 24,872,687 100% Provide ongoing remuneration advice, training and support Votes withheld 2,036,138 for committee members Total votes cast including withheld votes 26,908,825 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Implementation of remuneration policy for the year ended 28 June 2014 Executive director base salaries Base salaries levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2015 when they will be reviewed again: Executive directors From 1 April 2014 From 1 April 2013 % Increase David Brown 532,200 520,200 2.3% Keith Down 341,251 332,928 2.5% Executive directors remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended 28 June 2014.
Comparative figures for 2013 have also been provided.
For notes 3 & 4, please see page 76 1.
Taxable benefits The taxable benefit for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director comprises family healthcare membership.
Cash bonus and deferred share bonus performance-related bonus The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set at the start of the year.
The executive directors were awarded an overall bonus of 146.25% of salary out of a potential maximum bonus of 150%.
As shown above, half of this bonus is payable in cash and half is awarded as deferred shares to be held for a period of three years.
The full bonus is subject to clawback provisions.
Payout of maximum Metric Performance measure performance Actual payout Group profit Actual 2013 14 profit before tax post IAS 19 revised 65% 65% Group cashflow Net debt after adding back restricted cash 10% 10% Strategic KPIs See below 25% 22.5% Total 100% 97.5% Group operating profit The Group operating profit target for the 2013 14 financial year was as follows: Measure Target Payout % of salary Actual 2013 14 Group operating profit 100% of budget 5% 105% of budget 32.5% 121% of budget 65% Actual Group operating profit for the year ended 28 June 2014 was 103.2m resulting in the maximum payout of 65%.
Cashflow For Group cashflow, the target for the 2013 14 financial year was 326m, which was net debt after adding back restricted cash.
Actual net debt after adding back restricted cash was 260m 2013:299.6m resulting in the maximum payout of 10%.
Strategic KPIs For the 25% of performance-related bonus attributable to strategic KPIs, the following objectives were set for both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director: to progress towards the 100m bus target for 2015 16, evidenced by revenue growth of 4% on budget performance for 2013 14 and progress on cost efficiency plans leading to 9m cost reduction target by 2015 16: to address under-performance in recent acquisitions evidenced by clear actions taken and results: to ensure operational performance of existing franchises does not jeopardise franchise bidding, including ensuring that London Midland is not in breach: to win the TSGN franchise on acceptable terms and negotiate successful franchise extensions of Southeastern and Southern: and to address the recommendations in the McDonald Report to strengthen internal processes to identify risks to train operating company performance and improve the effectiveness of working in partnership with Network Rail.
The Group Chief Executive was also given additional individual objectives: to ensure that the organisational capability exists, create a leadership and talent pipeline to meet future needs and engage with the staff to ensure that Go-Ahead and its operating companies are an attractive place to work: and to ensure customers are satisfied with the Groups services.
For rail measured through overall passenger satisfaction NPS target of an average of 80%.
For bus, as measured by passenger satisfaction levels from Passenger Focus.
com 75 Directors remuneration report continued Implementation of remuneration policy for the year ended 28 June 2014 continued The Group Finance Director was also given additional individual targets: to provide strong leadership of the finance function including talent management and succession planning: and to manage market expectations to ensure a good understanding of the profit profile of the business, particularly ensuring the impact of IAS 19 revised is understood.
Also to ensure management uncertainties regarding rail provisions and accruals are well communicated and understood.
The committee reviewed in detail all objectives which had been set at the start of the financial year.
Each objective, which had been individually weighted, was measured before the committee concluded that 22.5% of the 25% overall award had been achieved.
Health and safety target threshold There is a health and safety target threshold that applies to the full bonus, with the committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
The target threshold in the 2013 14 financial year was to ensure that companies were run in a safe manner, in line with our strategic priority Society.
In bus, this is measured by any breaches of health and safety legislation and performance against employee RIDDOR accident targets.
In rail, performance against our targets for SPADs and employee RIDDOR accidents was used as a measure.
For the year ended 28 June 2014, against a difficult operational backdrop, there was a slight decline in performance on safety KPIs compared to last years strong results.
Despite this, health and safety standards across the Group remained high and, as such, the remuneration committee agreed that bonus payments should not be reduced as measures were in place to improve performance in line with the Groups 2015 targets, set in 2008.
Vesting of 2011 12 LTIP award The table below illustrates the components of the LTIP award at maximum and actual payouts.
The executive directors were awarded shares equating to 80% of salary out of a maximum potential share award of 100%.
This is the first long term incentive award to be eligible for vesting for the incumbent executive directors and was granted in October 2011, shortly after they joined the Board of Go-Ahead.
This award was measured based on performance conditions over the three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2011 12 financial period and ending with the end of the 2013 14 financial period.
Of the 50% of award attributable to annual compound growth in adjusted EPS, the maximum 50% of award was eligible to vest.
Of the 40% of award attributable to TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 peer group, 20% was eligible to vest.
Of the 10% of award based on long term strategic targets, the maximum 10% was eligible to vest.
To achieve this target, objectives included developing the revenue and profit of both the bus and rail businesses.
Specifically in rail, this included winning another franchise and retaining the existing franchises.
Specifically in bus, this included increasing operating profit and organic additions.
Percentage of EPS and Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Long term TSR elements vesting growth in EPS excluding certain sectors strategic targets Weighting % of award 50% 40% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median Threshold 25% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold and maximum 25% to 100% RPI 2% p. a. to RPI Between median and upper 6% p. a. quartile Maximum 100% RPI 6% p. a. or more Upper quartile Actual % vesting 50% 20% 10% The values of the LTIP awards are as shown in the executive directors' remuneration table on page 75.
These include the share value of the long term incentives and a cash value equivalent to the gross cumulative dividend payment which would have been payable between the date of award and the date the shares are acquired.
For the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the share values amount to 596,344 and 381,634 respectively based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2013 14 of 20.80.
These share options will not actually vest until shortly after the 2014 AGM.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment equates to 69,669 for the Group Chief Executive and 44,585 for the Group Finance Director.
Pension Allowance The Group Finance Director only receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 76 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2013 14 LTIP awards granted during the year ended 28 June 2014 audited As reported in the Annual Report 2013, LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors during the year ended 28 June 2014.
These were structured as nil-cost options, which are exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2013 14 financial period and ending with the 2015 16 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The 2013 14 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 100% of salary as follows: Number of shares over which Face value of award Executive director Basis of award granted Share price at grant date award was granted 000 Vesting determined by performance over David Brown 100% of salary 16.84 30,462 513 Three financial years ending on 26 June 2016 Keith Down 100% of salary 16.84 19,496 328 The performance conditions attaching to the 2013 14 LTIP awards were as follows: Payout % of each Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Bus division profit Rail division profit element growth in EPS excluding certain sectors in 2015 16 in 2015 16 Weighting % of total award 25% 25% 25% 25% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median Achievement of long term strategic targets, as assessed by the committee, is described below Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold Between 25% Between RPI 2% p. a.
Between median and and maximum and 100% and RPI 8% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 8% p. a.
Upper quartile For the bus division, the performance criteria for the 2013 14 award were to continue to organically grow bus division profits to 100m by 2015 16.
This recognised the three year strategy to grow bus operating profit to 100m.
This target excluded any acquisitions made in the period and represented a significant improvement in bus operating efficiency, which was important when, at the time, the rail division faced both challenging conditions for the existing franchises and uncertainty over the undisclosed contract terms for the new franchises, and whether the Groups bids would succeed.
This was particularly important in terms of ensuring a firm underpin for the Groups dividend which we recognised as very important to shareholders.
For the rail division, the performance criteria for the 2013 14 award were to manage the existing franchises to maintain profits: to renegotiate extensions to existing franchises on terms that enhanced shareholder value over the period of the extension: and to win franchises s on terms and with a balance of risk that would deliver superior growth in shareholder value over the term of the contract s. If cumulative rail profits for the three years to 2015 16 were negative, this element of the LTIP would not vest.
A framework for a qualitative assessment of performance was determined at the outset.
The above targets were based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these accounting policies.
Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
Payments to former directors audited As set out under Vesting of 2010 LTIP award on page 83, 37.13% of the September 2010 LTIP award granted to the former Group Chief Executive, Keith Ludeman, vested and, as such, 208,524 was paid during the year.
This was the last outstanding award for the former Group Chief Executive.
No other payments were made to former executive directors during the year ended 28 June 2014.
Share Incentive Plan SIP During the year, executive directors participated in The Go-Ahead Group plc SIP on the same terms as other employees.
The SIP is an HMRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a participating company and who have completed at least six months continuous service at the date of application.
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 150 per month or 10% of pre-tax salary if less which the Trustee of the SIP uses to buy partnership shares on their behalf.
Deductions are made from an employees gross income so no income tax or National Insurance will be payable provided the shares are held in trust for up to five years.
Sharesave scheme Further to shareholder approval sought at the 2013 AGM, a new HMRC Sharesave scheme known as The Go-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave was launched in February 2014.
Under Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least six months continuous service with a participating company were invited to make monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation.
During the year, both executive directors participated in Sharesave.
For further information, see the executive directors shareholdings table on page 79 and note 7 to the financial statements.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued Sourcing of shares and dilution Awards under all the Groups share schemes are satisfied by market purchases of shares.
Further details can be found in shareholder information on pages 154 to 155.
Pension and other benefits From 1 April 2012, in accordance with opting for fixed protection in relation to potential liabilities to the lifetime allowance charges, both executive directors ceased making all contributions into the money purchase section MPS of the Groups pension plan.
The Group Chief Executive had no specific pension entitlement on top of his salary but, until 31 March 2012, had elected to sacrifice some of his salary to pay into the MPS.
Until 31 March 2012, the Group Finance Director had been entitled to receive an employer contribution of 13% of his salary into the MPS and so, from 1 April 2012, he has received a non-pensionable cash alternative of 13% of his salary.
Chairman and non-executive director fees The current non-executive fees are as follows: From 1 April 2014 From 1 April 2013 Fees 000 pa 000 pa Andrew Allner 169 165 1 Katherine Innes Ker 51 50 Nick Horler 46 45 1 Adrian Ewer 51 50 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea 45 1 Additional fees of 5,000 payable to Katherine Innes Ker and Adrian Ewer for chairing the remuneration and audit committees respectively.
2 Rupert Pennant-Rea retired as a non-executive director on 24 October 2013.
Non-executive directors remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 28 June 2014 and the prior year: Single total remuneration figure 000 pa Andrew Allner 2014 166 2013 71 Katherine Innes Ker 2014 50 2013 50 Nick Horler 2014 45 2013 45 Adrian Ewer 2014 50 2013 9 Rupert Pennant-Rea 2014 15 2013 45 Rupert Pennant-Rea retired as a non-executive director on 24 October 2013.
He was paid pro-rata for the proportion of the financial year he was still in office.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 78 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests Shareholding requirements The remuneration committee believes that the interests of the executive directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders over the long term.
To support this, the committee introduced new shareholding requirements during 2012 13, whereby executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until such time as they had achieved a holding of 100% of salary.
Shares that count towards this requirement are beneficially owned shares.
Executive directors shareholdings audited Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests are set out in the table below together with the extent to which each of the executive directors has complied with the guidelines as at 28 June 2014.
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 6,586 shares.
Based on the closing share price on 28 June 2014, this equates to 29.3% of base salary.
The Group Finance Director beneficially held 3,639 shares, equating to 25.2% of base salary.
Subject to approval being granted at the AGM 2014, the vesting of the 2011 2012 LTIP awards would result in indicative holdings of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director increasing to 89% and 85% respectively.
Sharesave options Shareholding Shareholder without Shareholder as a % of requirement Deferred shares subject LTIP awards subject to performance 1 Legally owned requirement salary met to deferral conditions performance conditions conditions Vested Vested Executive but not but not 2 2 3 director 28.06.14 29.06.13 28.06.14 Unvested Vested Lapsed exercised Unvested Vested exercised Lapsed David 6,586 6,505 100% 29.3% No 13,093 0 0 0 68,120 0 28,670 7,168 103 Brown Keith 3,639 3,558 100% 25.2% No 8,379 0 0 0 43,597 0 18,348 4,588 103 Down 1 Shareholding as a % of salary includes only shares held beneficially by the director, their spouse or children.
Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included.
Shareholding is based on the closing share price on 28 June 2014.
2 Excludes deferred shares and LTIP awards which will be granted in October 2014 for the year ended 28 June 2014.
The value of deferred share awards granted in respect of the year ended 28 June 2014 is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 75.
3 Relates to the 2011 12 LTIP awards which have vested in respect of performance for the year ended 28 June 2014 and which will be exercised shortly after the 2014 AGM, the value of which is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 75.
Non-executive directors shareholdings audited Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
As at 28 June 2014 As at 29 June 2013 Andrew Allner 742 742 Katherine Innes Ker Nick Horler Adrian Ewer 140 Rupert Pennant-Rea n a 2,000 Rupert Pennant-Rea retired as a non-executive director on 24 October 2013.
Group Chief Executive remuneration five year comparison The table below summarise the Group Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration, annual and long term variable performance-related remuneration and the percentage of the maximum opportunity that these represent in relation to the past five years.
Group Chief Executive annual bonus Group Chief Executive LTIP vesting Group Chief Executive single Group Chief figure of total remuneration Actual bonus Maximum opportunity Actual LTIP Maximum opportunity Year Executive 000 % of maximum opportunity % of salary % of maximum opportunity % of salary 1 2013 14 David Brown 1,960 97.5 150 80 100 2012 13 David Brown 942 55.3 150 2011 12 David Brown 1,022 68 150 2 2010 11 David Brown 251 100 100 2010 11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 100 100 2009 10 Keith Ludeman 1,349 100 115 21.7 100 1 The single figure of total remuneration for 2013 14 includes the vesting of the 2011 12 LTIP award.
David Brown was granted LTIP awards for the first time in October 2011 following his appointment in April 2011 and hence this is the first opportunity that LTIP awards have been eligible to vest.
2 Following his appointment in April 2011, David Brown was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year 2010 11. www.
com 79 Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in Group Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives total remuneration between the financial years to 29 June 2013 and 28 June 2014, compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2013 to 2014 Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 2.31 28.6 81.5 Average employees 2.69 18.3 The relative importance of spend on pay The following chart sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the previous year.
The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Total shareholder return TSR performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last five financial years to 28 June 2014.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR the Board believes the FTSE 250 Index comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
Total shareholder return rebased to 100 300 250 200 150 100 50 27 06 2009 03 07 2010 02 07 2011 30 06 2012 29 06 2013 28 06 2014 FTSE 250 Index The Go-Ahead Group plc Peer group average return This graph shows the value by 28 June 2014 of 100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 28 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index and our peer group over the same period.
The other points plotted are the same values at intervening financial year ends.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Implementation of remuneration policy for the year ending 27 June 2015 This policy will apply to any remuneration paid on or after the Groups AGM on 24 October 2014.
Executive directors base salaries The base salary for the Group Chief Executive of 532,200 per annum and the base salary for the Group Finance Director of 341,251 remain unchanged until the annual salary review is undertaken on 1 April 2015.
Benefits The benefits for both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on page 70.
Pension The current pension arrangements described on page 78 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
Perfomance-related bonus The performance-related bonus for 2014 15 will operate on a similar basis as in 2013 14 and will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity and performance conditions.
In the table below, we disclose the executive directors performance-related targets for year ending 27 June 2015: Metric Weighting % of maximum bonus Group operating profit 65% see below Group cashflow 10% see below Strategic KPIs 25% see below Group operating profit The Group operating profit target for the 2014 15 financial year will be the 2014 15 Corporate Plan operating profit budget, with payout on a sliding scale from the final 2013 14 operating profit: Measure Target Payout % of salary Actual 2014 15 Group operating profit Group operating profit in 2013 14 0% Group operating profit budget in 2014 15 65% Cashflow For Group cashflow, the target for the 2014 15 financial year will be adjusted net debt after adding back restricted cash in accordance with the Corporate Plan.
For Group operating profit and cashflow metrics, the maximum bonus opportunity requires performance to be in line with the Groups budget for 2014 15.
Strategic KPIs For Strategic KPIs, the target for the 2014 15 financial year includes a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives over the course of the year.
These objectives reflect the individual roles of the executive directors in achieving the Groups strategy and cover both bus and rail divisions and the Group as a whole.
The individual targets include short term strategy, people, customers and investors, in addition to personal objectives.
Targets will be stretching, and more information on the specific targets and performance against them will be provided retrospectively in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
Clawback provisions will apply to the entire bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget review in conjunction with the auditor.
com 81 Directors remuneration report continued LTIP awards LTIP awards granted in the 2014 15 financial year will continue to operate under the same EPS and TSR structure principles subject to the following changes: the EPS and TSR elements of the award will account for 30% each previously 25% each : and instead of separate bus and rail strategic targets previously 25% each, an overall Group operating profit target of 40% will apply.
For the year commencing 29 June 2014, LTIP awards will continue to have a face value of 100% of salary.
The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2014 15 are detailed below: Payout Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Group operating % of each element growth in EPS excluding certain sectors company profit Weighting % of total award 30% 30% 40% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median See above Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold and maximum Between 25% Between RPI 2% p. a.
Between median and and 100% and RPI 8%p.
a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 8% p. a.
Upper quartile The Group operating profit target applying to 40% of the LTIP award will be payable on a sliding scale between the threshold and maximum targets.
No element of award will vest unless Group operating profit has increased from the Groups operating profit for the year ended 28 June 2014.
At threshold, 20% will vest if the Group has achieved 25% growth in 2013 14 operating profit.
At maximum, 40% will vest if the Group has achieved 50% growth in 2013 14 operating profit.
The above targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these accounting policies.
Non-executive directors fees The non-executive directors fees as stated in the table on page 78 remain unchanged until the annual fee review is undertaken on 1 April 2015.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Appendices Outstanding LTIP awards audited Balance post At Granted Exercised Lapsed Balance at Awards that vested in 2013 14 exercise in Share price 29 June 2013 during the year during the year during the year 28 June 2014 and exercise in 2014 15 2014 15 at the date of Award date award No No No No No Vested No Lapsed No Lapsed No.
Details of the performance conditions relating to the November 2012 and October 2013 awards can be found on pages 73 and 71 respectively of the 2013 Annual Report.
October 2011 awards Details of the performance targets to which the 2011 LTIP award relates together with actual vesting against those targets are set out on page 76.
Vesting of 2010 LTIP award retired Group Chief Executive only In September 2013, the third anniversary of grant for this award, the remuneration committee considered the extent to which the awards granted to Keith Ludeman former Group Chief Executive in September 2010 should vest based on the three year performance period ended on 29 June 2013.
The awards eligible to vest at this time had been reduced accordingly to reflect the period over which Keith Ludeman was employed.
The performance condition applicable to one half of the award was based on a comparison of Go-Aheads TSR with the TSR of the companies excluding investment trusts in the FTSE 250 index of companies.
The performance condition applicable to the other half of the award was based on a comparison of Go-Aheads TSR with the TSR of our transport sector peer group.
Of the 50% of award attributable to TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 peer group, 0% was eligible to vest.
Of the 50% of award attributable to the transport sector peer group, 37.13% of the award was eligible to vest.
The award details for Keith Ludeman are therefore as follows: Number of Number of Number of Dividend equivalent 1 2 shares granted shares vested shares lapsed on shares vested Actual value Keith Ludeman 23,091 8,573 14,518 23,404.32 208,523.68 1 Final amounts relating to dividend equivalents payable on LTIP awards over the three year period ended 29 June 2013.
2 The value of the vested shares is based on the share price at the date of exercise 21.59.
For and on behalf of the Board Katherine Innes Ker, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 3 September 2014 www.
