getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration coMMittee report dear shareholder, FY14 has been an encouraging year for Halfords.
Matt Davies, our CEO appointed in 2012, announced the details of Groups strategy to deliver on our vision to Help and Inspire our Customers with their Life on the Move in May 2013.
The strategy is described elsewhere in this document but the key aim is to deliver a strong and sustainable business.
For the Remuneration Committee this has therefore been a year of ensuring that we have the right talent, processes, structure and incentives in place to ensure we deliver the new strategy.
perforMance Measures As indicated in our last report, in the summer of 2013 the Committee undertook a review of performance measures for the Performance Share Plan PSP to ensure that they aligned Executive Directors interests with the delivery of our strategy.
As the strategic focus of the business is to put in place the foundations necessary to deliver a strong and sustainable business, the Committee determined that Total Shareholder Return and Earnings Per Share were no longer the most suitable measures.
Following consultation with shareholders in the first half of the year, the Committee determined that PSP awards granted from 2013 onwards would be based on growth in the Groups revenue 25% and growth in the Groups EBITDA 75%.
The vesting of awards will also be subject to meeting a net debt underpin to ensure that debt remains at appropriate levels.
For 2013 14, the annual bonus was based 75% on PBT, and 25% on the delivery of key strategic objectives which the Committee believed were crucial to the delivery of our strategy, and which it believes will lead to the creation of shareholder value.
For 2014 15, the Committee determined that the strategic objectives should remain linked to the delivery of the Companys vision but that the balance between financial and strategic targets should be amended as the strategy increasingly focuses on profitability.
Consequently the Committee approved a FY15 bonus based 80% on PBT and 20% on strategic goals.
reMuneration policy Our focus on the appropriate remuneration policies for Halfords has also had to take account of the wide ranging market discussions over the last few years around Executive Director remuneration arrangements, and the new remuneration disclosure requirements which have been introduced from 1 October 2013.
The legislation has introduced the concept of a binding vote for the Remuneration Policy Report and an advisory vote for the Annual Remuneration Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 We have considered all the regulations carefully, and focused on our duty as a Committee to ensure that 1 1 our remuneration policy for Executive Directors supports the strategic aims of the business, without taking 1 unnecessary risks, and enables us to recruit, motivate and retain executives of a high calibre, whist at the same time being consistent with the remuneration policies for our c. 12,000 colleagues.
Our Remuneration iMaGes Policy Report on pages 92 to 101 is broadly in line with previously reported policies.
1 A more spacious and engaging shopping The Annual Remuneration Report reports on how our policy has been applied during the financial year to 28 experience.
March 2014 and also to the date of this report.
new coMpanys share option scheMe csos and save as you earn scheMe saye The Committee considers that encouraging colleagues to own shares in our business helps to motivate and retain colleagues, and encourages them to think like an owner in their dealings with customers and colleagues alike.
Colleague share ownership is an important part of making Halfords a great place to work and creating stores that are a great place to shop.
The current CSOS and SAYE expire in 2014, and therefore the Committee has considered and approved new rules for these schemes which will be placed before members for their approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 July 2014.
Executive Directors will not be invited to participate in the CSOS.
reMuneration received in respect of 2013 14 The Remuneration Committee approved an average 1.5% salary increase in October 2013 for all colleagues and Executive Directors.
Executive Directors earned bonuses of 97.5% of their maximum opportunity.
The Committee determined that this level of bonus was appropriate, reflecting the strong PBT result and compelling performance against key strategic objectives during the year, see page 104 for more details.
PSP awards granted in 2011 will lapse in 2014 as the EPS and TSR targets were not met.
priorities for 2014 15 The priorities for the Committee in the forthcoming year remain to ensure that the Companys Remuneration Policy supports the delivery and ongoing development of the strategy, and the focus on the long-term success of the business.
In summary, the Committee has dealt with a number of changes over the last year both specific to the Company and in response to Government and shareholder consultations and is committed to ensuring that the Companys remuneration arrangements are designed to drive sustained shareholder value, and that proper levels of transparency are maintained.
Yours faithfully, Claudia Arney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 May 2014 91 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration policy report executive reMuneration policy The policy report set out on pages 92 to 101 sets out the remuneration policy the Policy that the Company intends to apply, subject to shareholder approval, with effect from 29 July 2014 the date of the AGM.
It is intended that this Policy will apply until the 2017 AGM, unless the Company seeks shareholder approval for a revised policy which comes into force before this date.
The Committee seeks to support the delivery of the Groups strategy through establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements.
Our goal is to build a strong long-term sustainable business by delivering ongoing sales growth and sustainable shareholder returns through the delivery of authoritative ranges of products, colleague and service excellence, digital participation and helpful store and Autocentre environments.
Consequently, the overall remuneration policy of the Committee, and of the Board, is to provide remuneration packages for Executive Directors and other senior managers in the Group which: Attract and retain Enable the Group to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary retail, customer service, financial, digital and service-industry skills and credentials required to deliver a sustainable business model and drive shareholder returns.
Remuneration arrangements are set at levels appropriate to achieving this goal without paying more than is considered necessary.
Benchmarking exercises are undertaken at appropriate intervals to inform the positioning of executives pay relative to the market and, without seeking to match the median, to identify and mitigate the risk of losing strong performers.
Link variable pay to performance and the delivery of the agreed strategy Provide management with the opportunity to earn competitive remuneration through annual and long-term variable pay arrangements that are designed to support delivery against key strategic objectives.
Performance measures are aligned with strategic goals so that remuneration arrangements are transparent to executives, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Different elements of executive pay are delivered over the short and longer term and are designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of the executives remuneration is variable and performance-related.
Align executives as shareholders Ensure managements interests are aligned with those of shareholders by incentivising management to deliver the Groups long-term strategy of a sustainable, growing business and thus enhance shareholder value.
A significant portion of reward is delivered in shares to create alignment of interests.
Drive sustainable performance Remuneration arrangements are designed to support the sustainable delivery of performance and to prevent excessive risk taking.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 key eleMents of executive reMuneration policy Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Base salary, which is payable in cash, is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary retail, customer service, financial, digital and service-industry skills and credentials required to deliver a sustainable business model and drive shareholder returns.
Operation Maximum Opportunity While there is no maximum salary level, salary increases will generally be in line with Generally salaries are reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 October increases awarded to other employees in the Group.
but may be reviewed at other times if the Committee considers this appropriate.
However, larger increases may be made at the discretion of the Committee to take In determining base salary levels consideration is given to the individuals into account circumstances such as: experience and the performance of the Group and the individual.
Without seeking to match the median consideration is also given: Changes in an individuals role or responsibility: To salary levels at other companies of a similar size and complexity: To reflect an individuals progression and increase in experience in the role: To salary levels at other UK listed retailers: and Where a salary is significantly behind market practice.
To pay increases for other employees in the Group.
Performance Measures The payment of salary is not subject to performance conditions.
However, when determining salary levels the performance of Executive Directors is taken into account, in advance of any increases being awarded.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide Executive Directors with market competitive benefits consistent with the role.
Operation Maximum Opportunity The overall level of benefits will depend on the cost of providing individual items The Committees policy is to set benefits at an appropriate level taking into and the individuals circumstances and therefore there is no maximum level of account the individuals circumstances and market practice.
Currently, base salary for Executive Directors is supplemented with a car plus Performance Measures fuel or a cash allowance, private health insurance and life assurance as standard None benefits.
However, the Committee may determine that additional benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, such as the use of a chaffeur when it is considered appropriate.
In the event that an executive is required to re-locate to perform their role then additional benefits may be provided such as relocation expenses, a housing allowance and school fees.
Executives are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other employees.
Pensions Purpose and link to strategy To enable the Company to offer market competitive remuneration through the provision of additional retirement benefits.
Operation Maximum Opportunity Defined employer contribution funding to the Halfords Pension Plan or payments The annual contribution for each individual will not exceed 20% of base salary.
into a personal fund up to the earnings cap as set by HMRC.
Pension provisions Currently the CEO receives 20% of base salary, whilst the Chief Financial Officer above this level are made in the form of a cash allowance.
CFO receives 15% of base salary.
The Committee may determine that alternative arrangements should apply including for new hires.
When determining such arrangements the Committee Performance Measures will consider cost and market practice subject to the overall limit set out in the None maximum column.
93 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration policy report continued Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise executives to achieve annual financial targets and performance against key strategic objectives.
The Committee may determine that an Executive Director may be required to defer some or all of their annual bonus into shares under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan to further incentivise them to manage risk and align their long-term interests with those of shareholders.
Operation Maximum Opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
The annual bonus is normally based on performance over a financial year.
The current individual limits are outlined below: The Committee determines after the year end the extent to which targets have been met.
In certain circumstances the Committee may review the annual bonus CEO: Maximum annual award 150% of base salary.
payout in the context of the performance of the business during the year and the CFO: Maximum annual award 100% of base salary.
delivery against strategy and may amend the level of bonus payout upwards or downwards to reflect overall business and individual performance.
Performance Measures Generally the annual bonus is paid in cash, but in certain circumstances the The annual bonus targets are based on a mix of financial and strategic measures.
bonus may be paid in shares or in a mixture of cash and shares as determined by Measures are selected each year by the Committee to ensure continued focus the Committee.
At least 50% of the bonus will be based on financial measures.
Currently the CEO must defer 1 3 of any bonus earned into an award over shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
However, the Committee may determine that a Performance measures are set annually to ensure they are appropriately different portion of the bonus will be paid in shares or that the bonus may be paid stretching for the delivery of threshold, target and maximum performance.
For 2014 15, the bonus will be based on performance against PBT and strategic Deferred bonus awards are normally made in the form of nil cost options but may objectives consistent with the Getting into Gear strategy.
be in other forms such as a conditional award.
Deferred awards normally vest Further details are provided on page 109 of the Annual Remuneration Report.
three years from award or such other period as the Committee determines and have no additional performance conditions.
No bonus will be paid for below threshold performance and 100% of bonus will be paid for achieving a stretching performance target set by the Remuneration Executives may, at the Committees discretion, receive an amount in cash Committee with reference to prior year performance and the Groups business or shares representing the dividends paid between the date of grant and the plan.
exercise of the award in respect of the number of deferred shares vesting.
The Committee shall have the discretion to determine how the value of this dividend award shall be calculated, which may include the deemed reinvestment of dividends in shares on a cumulative basis.
Deferred awards vest three years after the date of the award.
The Executive will also recieve an amount in cash or in shares representing the dividends paid between the date of the grant and the exercise of the award in respect of the number of shares vesting.
This will include the deemed reinvestment of dividends in shares on a cumulative basis.
For deferred shares granted from 2014 onwards the Committee may determine that the number of deferred bonus shares can be scaled back before exercise in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results, or where the Company has suffered serious loss or reputational damage in respect of the period for which the Executive had responsibilities for the running of the business.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Executive Directors of a high calibre.
To align Executive Directors interests with those of our shareholders by incentivising them to deliver the Company strategy and to create a sustainable business and maximise returns to shareholders.
Operation Maximum Opportunity Maximum core award 150% of base salary.
Annual awards of shares with vesting based on performance over a three-year Participants have the opportunity to earn up to 1.5 core award for exceptional period or such other period as the Committee shall determine.
The awards are performance the Performance Multiplier.
normally made in the form of a nil-cost option award but may be made in other The maximum annual face value of awards is therefore 225% of base salary.
forms such as conditional shares awards or jointly owned equity and the vesting of awards to Executive Directors is subject to the satisfaction of performance Performance Measures conditions.
For 2014 awards will vest subject to the achievement of stretching Revenue and To the extent that awards granted from 2013 onwards vest in line with the EBITDA targets.
Performance Multiplier as defined in the next column these share awards will The vesting of 25% of the awards will be determined by the growth in the Groups normally only become exercisable following a retention period of two years unless revenue and the vesting of 75% of the award will be determined by the growth in the Committee determines otherwise from the point at which the Committee the Groups EBITDA over a three-year performance period.
determined that the performance conditions have been met.
In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be subject to Executives may, at the Committees discretion, receive an amount in cash meeting a net debt underpin to ensure that debt remains at appropriate levels and or shares representing the dividends paid between the date of grant and the that management are not incentivised to deliver revenue growth at the expense of exercise of the award in respect of the number of shares which have vested.
Committee shall have the discretion to determine how the value of this dividend award shall be calculated, which may include the deemed reinvestment of The portion of the award that can be earned in relation to the revenue portion will dividends in shares on a cumulative basis.
be limited by the extent to which EBITDA targets are met.
The Committee may reduce, or impose further conditions on, an award which is 30% of the award vests for entry level performance.
subject to a holding period in circumstances where the Committee considers it For details of performance conditions for awards granted in 2011, 2012 and 2013 appropriate such as the material misstatement of the Companys results, serious see notes to the table.
reputational damage to the Company or where the company suffers serious losses.
For future awards the Committee may determine that different financial, operational or share price related performance measures may apply to awards or that a different weighting between performance measures may apply to ensure continued alignment with our evolving strategy.
The majority of the award will be subject to meeting a financial performance target.
CEO Co-Investment Award Purpose and link to strategy The award was implemented in October 2012 as a one-off incentive to recruit and retain a high-calibre CEO, to align his interests with those of our shareholders, and to reward growth in share price.
No further awards will be made under this plan.
Operation Maximum Opportunity The maximum number of matching shares which may be acquired under the A one-off award made on the appointment of the CEO.
The CEO was required to award excluding dividend equivalents is 3.5 times the number of investment invest 500,000 in Halfords shares investment shares to receive a matching shares acquired.
The CEO acquired 164,056 at a price of 302.22p.
Performance Measures If the CEO disposes of these investment shares during the matching share Share price performance targets for November 2015, November 2016 and performance period, then the matching shares shall lapse to the extent the November 2017. investment shares have been disposed.
Share price performance will be assessed using the average mid-market closing The CEO was granted an award of matching shares in the form of a nil cost share price for the 30 days following the announcement of the Interim results for option that may vest in tranches following the Committees assessment of the relevant year normally November.
performance see performance measures column.
At each relevant vesting date the CEO may decide to either exercise any portion of Prior to vesting the Committee will satisfy themselves that the achievement of the the award that has vested based on performance at that time in which case any share price targets is a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying financial unvested shares in that tranche in respect of which the share price target has not performance and may adjust the level of vesting accordingly.
been met will lapse or roll forward that tranche in full to be subject to performance The Committee may determine that the number of matching shares can be testing at the next vesting date.
In the latter case roll-forward the Participant will scaled back before exercise in circumstances that the Committee determines are forfeit the right to exercise any awards that had become capable of vesting at the appropriate such as a material misstatement of the Companys results, serious earlier vesting date.
reputational damage to the Company, or where the Company suffers serious 30% of the award vests for achieving threshold performance.
For further details of the operation and targets please see page 106 of the Annual The CEO may, at the Committees discretion, receive an amount in cash or Remuneration Report.
shares representing the dividends paid between the date of grant and the exercise of the award in respect of the number of shares which vest.
The value of this dividend award shall be calculated based on the deemed reinvestment of dividends in shares on a cumulative basis.
95 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration policy report continued other inforMation 2011 and 2012 psp awards perforMance condition Awards made under the PSP in 2011 and 2012 vest subject to the achievement of stretching TSR and EPS targets.
The vesting of 50% of the awards will be determined by the Groups relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance when measured against a general retailers comparator group chosen from the FTSE 350.
The vesting of the other 50% will be determined by the Groups absolute Earnings per Share EPS growth performance compared against RPI over the performance period.
shareholdinG Guidelines The Committee believes that it is important that Executive Directors interests are aligned with those of our shareholders to incentivise them to deliver the corporate strategy, thus creating value for all shareholders.
Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire and retain shares with a value equal to 100% of their annual base salary.
Executive Directors have a five-year period to build this shareholding following their appointment.
However, the Committee retains its discretion to extend this period in instances it considers such extension appropriate.
Current Executive Director shareholdings are disclosed on page 107. leGacy awards The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including the exercise of any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Minor aMendMents The Committee may however make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
plan rules Awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan and Co-Investment Award will be operated in accordance with the rules of the plans.
In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event, which may, in the Committees opinion, impact the value of awards, the terms of awards may be adjusted.
In addition, the Committee may amend an awards performance conditions where an event occurs which causes the Committee to reasonably consider that an amended performance condition would be, in the case of the PSP, a fairer measure of performance and a more effective incentive and, in the case of the Co-Investment Award, more appropriate and not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
The rules may be amended in accordance with their terms.
cash Awards may be settled in cash at the discretion of the Committee.
reMuneration arranGeMents in different perforMance scenarios As outlined above, the remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is variable and performance-related.
By linking the remuneration of the individual Executive Director to the performance of the Company, the Committee seeks, as far as possible, to motivate that individual towards superior business performance and shareholder value creation, and to only pay rewards when these goals have been realised.
Performance measures are aligned with strategic goals so that remuneration arrangements are transparent to Directors, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The charts below illustrate remuneration arrangements in different performance scenarios.
The assumptions for each scenario are outlined below: Fixed Pay Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension only Expected Fixed pay On target annual bonus opportunity 50% of core PSP award 75% of salary Maximum Fixed pay 100% of maximum annual bonus opportunity 1.5 the core PSP award 225% of salary The one-off CEO Co-Investment award has not been included in the scenario chart as there is no intention to grant further awards.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 3,000,000 2.54m 2,500,000 45% 2,000,000 1.45m Performance Share Plans 1,500,000 1.26m Bonus 0.83m 30% 1,000,000 30% 51% Salary, Benets & Pension 0.64m 29% 19% 0.39m 500,000 24% 22% 51% 25% 100% 100% 47% 27% 0 CEO CFO CEO CFO CEO CFO Fixed Expected Maximum Pension Based Base Salary with Benefits Single on Salary with effect from Figure Value for effect from Total Fixed Executive Director 1 October 2013 2013 14 1 October 2013 Remuneration Matt Davies CEO 507,500 31,212 101,500 640,212 Andrew Findlay CFO 325,000 17,050 48,750 390,800 The above scenarios do not take into account share price growth and any additional dividends that may be earned are not taken into account.
perforMance conditions Annual bonus: The bonus is subject to a mix of financial and strategic measures.
These measures are selected to provide an appropriate balance between profitability and strategic objectives and to incentivise individual directors to meet corporate targets and drive individual performance.
Targets are set on an annual basis taking into account internal and external expectations of performance.
Performance Share Plan: The performance measures for 2014 awards are Group Revenue and EBITDA growth.
Revenue growth is a clear reaction to the Getting Into Gear 2016 programme and is easily identified by both management and shareholders.
However, in order to add value for shareholders, revenue improvements need to lead through to improved profitability.
The majority of the PSP award is therefore subject to improved profit performance.
Growth in EBITDA is a measure of operational profit performance and operational cash management, with a clear line of sight for management.
Given the evolution in strategy and the consequent focus on investment for long term shareholder value, EBITDA is a more appropriate measure of the effective delivery of the strategy.
At the same time, to ensure a continued focus on cash management a target underpin of net debt EBITDA has been introduced.
Targets are set taking into account internal and external expectations of performance.
The Committee may determine that different performance measures will apply to future PSP awards.
recruitMent reMuneration policy When hiring a new Executive Director, it would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy table above.
However, at recruitment, the Committee would retain the discretion to flex the balance between annual and long-term incentives and the measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the intention that a significant proportion would be delivered in shares subject and that variable pay would be subject to performance conditions.
In all cases the value of any variable pay that will be granted in respect of an executives recruitment excluding any buyout compensation for the loss of existing variable remuneration benefits will be a maximum of 375% of annual salary.
The Committee may also make arrangements to compensate the new executive for loss of existing remuneration when leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee may take account of the form in which they were granted: any relevant performance conditions: the length of time that any relevant performance periods have to run: and the organisation which previously employed the Executive.
The Committee will seek to deliver buy-out arrangements on a broadly like for like basis to those forfeited.
When determining salary levels for a new Executive Director, the Committee may set the initial salary level towards the lower end of market practice and may award higher salary increases in the first few years as the individual gains in experience to move them towards a more market normal level.
To facilitate buy-out awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director without seeking prior shareholder approval or under other relevant Company incentive plans.
In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
97 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration policy report continued reMuneration arranGeMents elsewhere in the Group Whilst our remuneration policy follows the same principles across the Group, remuneration packages for colleagues reflect their different roles and experiences, and market practice for similar roles.
The remuneration policy for senior executives in the Group is similar to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in this report - a substantial proportion of remuneration is performance related in order to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder returns and remuneration is linked to both individual and Company performance.
Basic salary is targeted at normal commercial rates for comparable roles and is benchmarked on a regular basis.
Bonuses can be earned on the same basis as the Executive Directors.
Senior Executives immediately below Board level also benefit from participation in the PSP.
Increases to executive managers base salaries are considered at the same time as all other colleagues across the Group and increases are generally in line with all colleagues.
All of the Groups c. 12,000 colleagues are eligible to join the Halfords Sharesave Plan SAYE after they have served one complete months service.
At the same time they are all eligible for some form of quarterly or full year bonus, although the type, limits and performance conditions vary according to job level.
Senior managers and other key management individuals are invited to join the Company Share Option Scheme.
In 2013 14 all newly appointed colleagues and other existing colleagues who had experienced a joiningtrigger event were eligible to join the Halfords Pension Plan 2009.
All members of the Pension Plan are required to make a minimum contribution of 3% and the Company also contributes a minimum of 3%, dependent on length of service and seniority.
During the year the Company has met its obligations under the pensions auto enrolment legislation, auto enrolling all other colleagues as appropriate.
executive directors service aGreeMents terM and notice periods The Companys policy in relation to contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, is that they should be fair to the individual, the Company and shareholders.
Failure should not be rewarded and the departing Executives duty to mitigate any loss he suffers should be recognised.
The Committee periodically reviews the Groups policy on the duration of Executive Directors service agreements, and the notice periods and termination provisions contained in those agreements.
The Company is aware that companies are encouraged to consider notice periods of less than 12 months, and in contracting with the CEO it was agreed that a notice period of six months was appropriate.
The notice periods of the other Executive Directors remains limited to 12 months.
The Committee policy is that notice period for new Executive Directors will be no more than 12 months.
The Committee will continue to review this policy, to ensure that it remains in line with the Companys overall remuneration policy Date of Service Notice Agreement Period Matthew Davies 4 October 2012 6 months 16 November 1 Andrew Findlay 2010 12 months 2 Paul McClenaghan 9 May 2005 12 months 1.
Andrew Findlay was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2011 and his service agreement was effective from that date.
Paul McClenaghan resigned on 12 April 2013. terMination of contract No compensation would be payable if a service contract were to be terminated by notice from an Executive Director or for lawful termination by the Company other than as set out below.
The Company may terminate service agreements in accordance with the appropriate notice periods.
In the event of early termination other than for a reason justifying summary termination in accordance with the terms of the service agreement the Company may but is not obliged to pay to the Executive Director, in lieu of notice, a sum equal to the Executive Directors then salary, benefits and pension contributions, which he would have received during the contractual notice period 12 months for the CFO and six months for the CEO, the sum of which shall normally be payable in monthly instalments.
Executive Directors who are considered to be good leavers may, if the Committee determines, receive a bonus for the financial year in which they leave employment.
Such bonus will normally be calculated on a pro rata basis by reference to their period of service in the financial period in which their employment is terminated and performance against targets.
MitiGation on terMination Where a contract has been terminated early the Executive Director shall use their best endeavours to secure an alternative source of remuneration, thus mitigating any loss to the Company, and shall provide the Board with evidence of such endeavours upon their reasonable request.
If the Executive Director fails to provide such evidence the Board may cease all further payments of compensation.
To the extent that the Executive Director receives any sums as a result of alternative employment or provision of services while he is receiving such payments from the Company, the payments may be reduced by the amount of such sums.
In good leaver circumstances the Executive Director might be offered a lump sum termination payment paid at the time they cease employment which would normally be less than he would receive if he were to be paid his annual salary and benefits over 12 months six months for the CEO.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 chanGe of control The service agreements of Executive Directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Executive Directors services contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
share plans leaver treatMent The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment with the Group of the Companys associated companies is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises leaver provisions under the executive share plans.
Good leavers as determined Leavers in other circumstances by the Committee other than gross misconduct Halfords Performance Share Plan Under the PSP Good Leavers include: Death, injury, Awards may vest at the end of the performance Unvested awards normally lapse on leaving.
ill-health disability, redundancy, retirement, sale of the period or if a retention period applies at the end of Awards for which the performance condition has been individuals employing business or company out of the retention period.
The Committee will determine met at the time of leaving but which were subject to a the Group or to a company which is not associated the level of vesting having due regarding to the extent retention period will continue to vest at the end of the with the Company or in any other circumstances the to which the performance conditions have been met retention period.
and unless the Committee determines otherwise the proportion of the performance period that had The Executive has 12 months from leaving, or if later, elapsed at leaving.
the end of the retention period to exercise vested but unexercised options if applicable unless the Alternatively the Committee may determine that Committee determines otherwise.
awards should vest at the time of leaving on the basis set out above.
The Executive has 12 months from vesting or if later, his date or leaving or the end of the relevant retention period to exercise options if awards are structured as nil-cost options.
CEO Co-Investment Award Under the Co-Investment Plan Good Leavers The Committee may determine the extent to which Unvested Matching Shares normally lapse on leaving.
include: Death, ill-health, disability or in any other matching shares vest either at the normal vesting The Executive has 12 months to exercise any circumstances the Committee determines.
date or at the time of leaving taking into account the Matching Shares that have vested at cessation of extent to which the performance condition has been their employment.
met and unless the Committee determines otherwise the period of time between award and the participant leaving.
The Executive has 12 months from vesting or the date of leaving if later to exercise matching shares.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the Deferred Bonus Plan Good Leavers Outstanding awards vest on leaving.
Awards will normally lapse unless the Committee include: Death, injury, ill-health disability, redundancy, determines that awards may be exercised.
The The Executive has 6 months from leaving to exercise retirement, sale of the individuals employing business Committee has discretion to determine the proportion options 12 months in the case of death.
or company out of the Group or to a company which of the award that shall vest and the period of time is not associated with the Company or in any other during which it may be exercised.
The leavers treatment under the Halfords Sharesave Scheme is determined in accordance with HMRC provisions.
In the event of an individuals misconduct all outstanding share awards would generally be forfeited.
chanGe of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, PSP awards may vest pro-rated for time elapsed in the performance period unless the Committee determines otherwise to the extent that the Committee determines the performance condition should be deemed satisfied having regarding to the Companys progress towards that condition.
The Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up or reconstruction of the company or a demerger except that in the event of a demerger [or reconstruction] the Committee may determine the extent to which awards shall be time pro-rated.
In the event of a change of control, the co-investment award may vest to the extent the Committee determines, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time between grant and the relevant event and such other relevant factors such as the performance of the Company as the Committee considers appropriate.
The Committee may determine that awards should vest on the same basis in the event of a winding-up of the Company or if the Company is affected by a demerger, fide-listing, special dividend or other event which may in the Committees opinion affect the value of awards.
DBP awards may vest on a change of control, winding up or demerger of the Company.
Alternatively awards may be rolled over into equivalent awards in a different company.
99 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report reMuneration policy report continued key eleMents of non-executive reMuneration policy Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance to strategy Opportunity Measures Chairman and NonTo attract and Fee levels are set to reflect the time, commitment and experience of the Overall fees paid None Executive Directors retain high-calibre Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and taking into account fee to Directors will individuals to serve levels at other companies of a similar size and complexity and to other remain within the as Non-Executive UK listed retailers.
limit stated in the Directors.
Companys Articles The fees of Non-Executive Directors shall normally be reviewed every of Association, two years to ensure that they are in line with market conditions and currently 600,000. any changes to said fees will be approved by the Board as a whole following a recommendation from the Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors and the Fees for the Company Chairman shall normally be reviewed every two Chairman are not years to ensure that they are in line with market conditions and any entitled to participate changes to said fees will be approved by the Board as a whole.
in any cash or share incentive schemes.
The fees are normally paid in cash quarterly but may be paid in shares if this is considered appropriate.
The Chairman is paid a single fee which includes his chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee plus additional fees for their chairmanship of a Board Committee and for the role of the Senior Independent Director.
Further additional fees may be paid to reflect additional time, committee or board responsibilities if this is considered appropriate.
The Company reimburses reasonable travel and subsistence costs.
The Chairman and Non-Executive directors do not currently receive other benefits but reasonable benefits may be provided in the future if appropriate.
appointMent None of the Non-Executive Directors has an employment contract with the Company.
However, each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company confirming their appointment for a period of three years, unless terminated by either party giving the other not less than three months notice or by the Company on payment of fees in lieu of notice.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors above.
The appointment period for each Non-Executive Director is set out below: Date of Current Unexpired term at the Director Date of Appointment Appointment Date of resignation Expiry Date date of this Report Dennis Millard 28 May 2009 29 May 2012 29 May 2015 12 months Bill Ronald 17 May 2004 27 July 2013 26 July 2016 26 months David Adams 1 March 2011 1 March 2014 28 February 2017 32 months Claudia Arney 25 January 2011 25 January 2014 24 January 2017 31 months Keith Harris 17 May 2004 27 July 2013 26 July 2016 26 months Helen Jones 1 March 2014 1 March 2014 28 February 2017 32 months Their appointments are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association and in particular the need for reelection.
Continuation of an individual Non-Executive Directors appointment is also contingent on that Non-Executive Directors satisfactory performance, which is evaluated annually by the Chairman.
The Chairman is evaluated by the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered offices.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 terMination of non-executive directors letters of appointMent No compensation would be payable to a Non-Executive Director if his or her engagement were terminated as 3 a result of him or her retiring by rotation at an Annual General Meeting, not being elected or re-elected at an iMaGes Annual General Meeting or otherwise ceasing to hold office under the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early termination of the 1 Space to assess and consider premium appointment of a Non-Executive Director.
dialoGue with shareholders 2 Enhanced displays The views of our shareholders are very important to the Committee and it is our policy to consult with our and, in selected stores, the ability to largest shareholders in advance of making any material changes to the executive remuneration arrangements.
In 2013 the Committee consulted with shareholders regarding changing the performance measures for 3 Bright and engaging the PSP from TSR and EPS to Revenue and EBITDA with a net debt underpin.
The Committee found the product brands.
consultation constructive and the feedback from shareholders resulted in a change in the ratio of Revenue and EBITDA and the introduction of a retention period of two years for shares that vest by virtue of employing the performance multiplier.
dialoGue with eMployees The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when considering pay for Executive Directors and senior management.
When considering base salary increases, the Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to other employees in the Group.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding Executive Directors remuneration.
However, at regular intervals the Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of their experience of working at Halfords including their own reward.
101 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report annual reMuneration report coMMittee activity the coMMittee During the year and the period to the date of this report the Remuneration Committee the Committee consisted of Keith Harris: Dennis Millard: Bill Ronald: David Adams: and Claudia Arney.
Claudia Arney took over the Chairmanship of the Committee from Keith Harris on 1 March 2014.
In this time the Committee has: Discussed and approved both financial and strategic annual bonus metrics and targets: Reviewed and set the salaries of the CEO and FD with effect from 1 October 2013: Reviewed and commented on the salaries and incentive arrangements for the executive management: Reviewed and approved the salaries and incentives arrangements for the recruitment of senior executives: Held discussions with shareholders and approved changes to the performance conditions for awards made under the Performance Share Plan from 2013 onwards: Measured the performance conditions of the Company Share Option Scheme which operates for Senior Executives below Board level and the Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2010, confirming that neither of the Schemes performance condition targets had been met: Approved grants under the Performance Share Plan, Company Share Option Scheme to Senior Executives below Board level and Sharesave Scheme: Approved amendments to the rules of the Company Share Option Scheme and the Sharesave Scheme in respect of Finance Act 2013 changes: Approved new rules for the Company Share Option Scheme and the Sharesave Scheme to be put before shareholders at the 2014 Companys Annual General Meeting the old plans having expired this year : Reviewed and approved the Companys Remuneration Policy and Annual Remuneration Report for placing before shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 July 2014: Undertaken a review of Committee effectiveness and agreed steps to enhance effectiveness: and Considered and approved the Committees terms of reference.
advisors During the year the Committee has been supported by Jonathan Crookall, People Director and Alex Henderson, Company Secretary.
The CEO and CFO may also on occasion attend Committee meetings on the request of the Committee but are not present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee also engaged with Deloitte LLP, who has advised on performance measures for the PSP, remuneration reporting and other remuneration matters.
Fees paid to Deloitte for this advice were 5,900.
Deloitte have also provided advice to management as part of their support to the Committee, primarily in relation to remuneration reporting.
A separate team within Deloitte has also provided debt advisory advice.
Deloitte are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct when dealing with the Committee.
The Committee considers their advice to be independent and impartial.
The Committee is also satisfied that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, which provided remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Halfords that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Towers Watson also provided the Committee with executive salary benchmark data.
Towers Watson are also signatories of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
Fees paid to Towers Watson for this advice were 3,500.
Fees for both Deloitte and Towers Watson were charged on a time and materials basis.
shareholder dialoGue The Committee is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and carefully reviews voting outcomes on remuneration matters.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Halfords would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote, determine appropriate actions and would detail any such actions in response to it in the Directors Remuneration Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our last report in 2013: % of votes For Against For 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Report 2013 AGM 88.8% 11.2% 6,247,647 votes were withheld in relation to this resolution c. 4% of shareholders.
how was the reMuneration policy iMpleMented in 2013 14 executive directors sinGle reMuneration fiGure for 2013 14 audited PSP due in respect of performBonus ance Total due in period Single Base respect of ended Figure 1 2 Salary 2013 14 Benefits Pension 2013 14 2014 Matt Davies 503,750 736,734 31,212 100,375 n a 1,372,071 Andrew Findlay 302,750 295,181 17,050 45,000 660,011 Totals 806,500 1,031,915 48,262 142,250 0 2,028,957 1.
The calculation of the bonus payable in respect of the period ended 28 March 2014 is given on page 104.
Shares were awarded in August 2011 under the Performance Share Plan based on performance in the period April 2011 to March 2014.
In May 2014 the performance conditions for these shares were measured and the Committee determined that awards would not vest.
Further detail is given on page 104.
Matt Davies did not receive a PSP award in 2011 as this was prior to him joining the Company.
Matt Davies was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2012. salary In keeping with its usual cycle of reviewing Company-wide salaries in September October the Committee considered an executive pay report compiled for them by Towers Watson.
The Committee concluded that the salary for the CEO was competitive and decided to increase his salary by 1.5% to 507,500 in line with the average increase awarded to colleagues across the business.
In reviewing the Executive Directors responsibilities the Committee determined that the Groups CFO, Andrew Findlay, had assumed Board responsibility for a number of additional areas of the business, most importantly that of IT.
This was considered by the Board to be a vital role in the delivery of the Companys Getting Into Gear programme.
The Committee considered that Andrew Findlays salary did not appropriately reflect the scope and responsibilities of his increased role and as such the Committee considered it appropriate that he receive an increased salary from 1 October 2013 of 325,000 16% increase.
2013 14 annual bonus Annual Bonuses for 2013 14 for Executive Directors were based 75% on Group PBT and 25% on the delivery of key strategic initiatives crucial to the delivery of the Companys strategy.
These initiatives included improving the retention rate of colleagues who had been with the business for three months: increasing the valueadded service sales: increasing the range of parts, accessories and clothing on offer in the Companys Cycling category: improving both colleague and customer engagement with the Halfords brand: and the development of new 50:39 store formats.
103 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report annual reMuneration report continued Annual Bonuses reported in the above table and payable in May 2014 for the financial period ended 28 March 2014 were calculated as follows.
Performance Bonus Bonus Opportunity awarded % of total Performance % of total Measure award Threshold Target Stretch delivered award PBT 75% 92% of budget 100% of budget 106% of budget Underlying PBT for year as 75.0% 72.8m was in excess of 106% of target and therefore this proportion of the annual bonus is payable in full.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine the extent to which these initiatives have been achieved.
In determining the outcome in relation to each initiative the Committee considered the following achievements: Retention of Store Reducing the number of colleagues who leave the business, as a Achieved 5% Colleagues: percentage, within three months of their start date.
Value Added Sales: Increasing the total incremental sales in the financial year of 3Bs fitting, other The initiatives included in this 2.5% auto fitting, cycle repair, Sat Nav attachment and cycle accessories.
project led to sales increasing in a range in the lower half of the target.
Net Promoter Score As measured by the Empathica mechanism in stores increasing the Achieved 5% Formats: average score over the final three months of the year.
Engagement Index: Increasing the year on year engagement index based on the annual survey.
15 stores refurbished and a blueprint established for roll out.
Achieved 5% Total Bonus 97.5% The Committee reviewed the annual bonus payout in the context of the performance of the underlying business during the year and the delivery against strategy and determined that the level of bonus paid was appropriate in this context.
Bonus targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they could reveal information about Halfords business plan and budgeting process to competitors which could be damaging to Halfords business interests and therefore to shareholders.
The Committee will look to disclose targets when they are considered to no longer be commercially sensitive.
2011 perforMance share plan award Awards granted in 2011 under the PSP were subject to the following performance conditions: TSR Performance Element EPS Performance Element 50% of award 50% of award 1.5 x initial award vesting Upper Decile performance 16% growth p. a. above RPI Award Multiplier up to 1.5 x initial award i. e. 225% Between Upper Quartile and Between 11% growth p. a. and of salary.
Straight-line vesting Upper Decile performance 16% growth p. a. above RPI 100% Vesting Upper Quartile performance 11% growth p. a. above RPI Between Median and Between 4% growth p. a. and Core Award Straight-line vesting Upper Quartile performance 11% growth p. a. above RPI 150% of salary 30% Vesting Median performance 4% growth p. a. above RPI 0% Vesting Below Median performance Below 4% growth p. a. above RPI TSR and EPS performance are assessed on an independent basis.
However, to ensure that the PSP continues to support sustainable performance, the multiplier for one measure is only applied if performance is at least at the threshold level for the other measure.
The companies included in the TSR comparator group are based on the FTSE 350 general retail and food retail companies on the date of grant.
For awards granted in 2011 these are as follows: Brown Group: Carpetright: Debenhams: Dignity: Dixons Retail plc formerly DSG International : Dunelm Group: Greggs: Home Retail Group: JD Sports Fashion plc: Darty formerly Kesa Electricals : Kingfisher International: Marks & Spencer Group: Morrison WM : Mothercare: Next: Sainsbury J : Sports Direct: Tesco: WH Smith.
Based on TSR performance between 2 April 2011 and 28 March 2014, Halfords TSR was just below median against the comparator group and therefore 0% of the portion of the TSR element of the award will vest.
EPS growth between FY11 and FY14 was below RPI and therefore 0% of the EPS element of the award will vest.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 tsr performance Graph The following graph shows the TSR performance of the Company since April 2009, against the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
TSR was calculated by reference to the growth in share price, as adjusted for reinvested dividends.
300 FTSE 350 General Retailers Halfords Group Source: Thompson Datastream 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The following table shows the history of PSP award vesting over the last 5 five years.
FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 PSP vestings % of maximum 100% 99% 0% 0% 0% standard benefits Standard benefits include payments made in relation to life assurance, private health insurance and the provision of a company car or equivalent cash allowance and the use of a chauffuer when appropriate.
pension Pension payments represent contributions made either to defined contribution pension schemes or as a cash allowance.
The CEO received a contribution of 20% of base salary and the CFO received contribution of 15% of base salary.
share awards Granted durinG the year audited perforMance share plan During the year the Committee approved awards to the Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan as follows: Maximum face value of award 1.5x the number of Threshold vesting Performance Date of award Type of award Number of shares awards granted % of target award period Matt Davies 200,588 1,124,998 Nil cost option 0p 30 March 2013 to 7 August 2013 30% exercise price Andrew Findlay 112,530 631,125 25 March 2016 These awards were based on 150% of salary.
Based on the mid-market price on the date of the awards of 3.739. performance conditions Awards granted in 2013 are subject to the following performance conditions: Group Revenue Growth CAGR 25% Group EBTIDA Growth - CAGR of the award 75% of the award Award Multiplier 1.5 x initial award vesting 8.00% 6.50% up to 1.5 x initial award i. e. 225% of salary.
Straight-line vesting Between 4.75% and 8.00% Between 3.25% and 6.50% 100% Vesting 4.75% 3.25% Straight-line vesting Between 4.00% and 4.75% Between 2.50% and 3.25% Core Award 150% of salary 30% Vesting 4.00% 2.50% 0% Vesting Below 4.00% Below 2.50% In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be subject to meeting an underpin of net debt to EBITDA ratio no greater than 1.5x throughout the three-year performance period.
This will ensure that net debt remains at appropriate levels and management is not incentivised to invest in new activities that are not profitable thereby increasing net debt levels to meet targets: the focus is to maximise the return on cash investments.
The Core Award shares that vest will become exercisable in August 2016.
To the extent that awards vest in line with the performance multiplier outlined above, these shares will only become exercisable in August 2018, following a retention period of two years.
105 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report annual reMuneration report continued deferred bonus plan Matt Davies received a bonus of 187,500 in respect of 2012 13, of which one-third 62,500 was deferred into 18,997 shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan on 31 May 2013 at a price of 3.29 per share.
These shares vest, subject to the clawback provisions referred to on page 94, on 31 May 2016. outstandinG share awards audited performance share plan The following summarises outstanding awards under the PSP: Midmarket Awards Awards price on held Awarded Forfeited Lapsed Exercised held Performance date of 29 March during the Dividend during the during the during 28 March period 3 years 1 Award Date awards 2013 period Reinvestment period period the year 2014 to Matt Davies 7 August 2013 3.74 200,588 2,220 202,808 1 April 2016 2 Andrew Findlay 8 August 2011 3.17 230,692 8,275 238,967 28 March 2014 3 August 2012 2.20 195,866 7,026 202,892 3 April 2015 7 August 2013 3.74 112,530 1,246 113,776 1 April 2016 1.
Interim and final dividends have been reinvested in shares at prices between 3.7100 and 4.6974.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance conditions attached to 2011 Performance Share Plan award and determined that the performance conditions have not been met.
The award will therefore lapse on 8 August 2014.
The performance conditions for awards are summarised above.
The performance conditions for 2012 awards are the same as for 2011 awards.
co-investment plan Awards held Awarded Lapsed Exercised Awards held Performance 30 March during the Dividend during the during 29 March period 35 Award Date 2012 period Reinvestment period the year 2013 years Matt Davies November 2015 - November 1 2 28 January 2013 574,196 20,470 594,666 2017 1.
This award represents 3.5 times Matt Davies initial investment of 164,056 shares purchased at a price of 3.02 on 4 October 2012.
On appointment, the Company made the CEO a one-off Co-Investment Award.
This Award was designed to allow the Company to recruit and retain an executive of the calibre required to run the business and to incentivise the CEO to deliver exceptional shareholder value creation through the achievement of share price performance targets.
This plan was adopted for the sole purpose of making a one-off award to the Groups new CEO.
It is not anticipated that any further awards will be made under this Plan to either the Groups CEO or other executives.
perforMance conditions Under the Plan the CEO invested 500,000 into Halfords shares, acquiring 164,056 shares at 302.22p per share.
The CEO was then awarded a maximum matching award of 3.5x the number of invested shares 574,196 shares.
Subject to continued employment these shares may vest up to a third in November 2015, up to two thirds in November 2016 and in full in November 2017, depending on the following Threshold 30% vesting and Maximum 100% vesting share price performance targets of Halfords: November Threshold Maximum 2015 350p 400p 2016 385p 440p 2017 425p 485p Share price performance will be assessed using the average mid-market closing share price for the 30 days following the announcement of the Interim results for the relevant year normally November.
At each relevant vesting date the CEO may decide to either exercise any portion of the award that has vested at that time in which case any unvested shares in that tranche in respect of which the share price target has not been met will lapse or roll forward that tranche in full to be subject to performance testing at the next vesting date.
In the latter case roll-forward the CEO will forfeit the right to exercise any awards that had become capable of vesting at the earlier vesting date.
Matching shares were granted in the form of nil cost options.
Vested options can be exercised until the 10th anniversary of the date of grant.
Matching shares accrue additional shares related to dividends.
Prior to vesting the Committee will satisfy themselves that the achievement of the Share Price Target is a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying financial performance and may adjust the level of vesting accordingly.
The Committee may determine that Matching Shares can be scaled back before exercise for circumstances such as material misstatement, the individual being responsible for serious reputational damage to the Company, or in circumstances where the Company suffers serious losses.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 halfords Group plc deferred bonus plan Awards held Awarded Lapsed Exercised Awards held 29 March during the Dividend during the during 28 March Award Date 2013 period Reinvestment period the year 2014 1 Matt Davies 31 May 2013 18,997 681 19,678 1.
Matt Davies received a bonus of 187,500 of which one-third was deferred into shares under the Halfords Deferred Bonus Plan at a price of 3.29 per share.
ceo pay coMpared to perforMance The following tables compares the Companys TSR performance with the CEO remuneration for the past 5 years and outlines the proportion of annual bonus paid as a percentage of the maximum opportunity and the proportion of PSP awards vesting as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
The annual bonus is shown based on the year to which performance related and the PSP is shown for the last year of the performance period.
Matt Davies was appointed on 4 October 2012.
David Wild stepped down as CEO on 19 July 2012.
David Wild did not receive a PSP award in 2007 as this was before he was appointed.
The 2007 PSP awards vested in full.
Matt Davies did not receive a PSP award in 2010 as this was before he was appointed.
The 2010 PSP awards lapsed in full.
David Wilds 2010 PSP award lapsed on leaving.
Matt Davies did not receive a PSP award in 2011 as this was before he was appointed.
executive director shareholdinG audited Matt Davies Andrew Findlay Shareholding Requirement 100% 100% Current Shareholding 174,056 19,108 Current Value based on share price on 28 March 2014 802,572 88,107 Current % of Salary 158% 27% Date by which guideline should be met 4 October 2017 1 February 2016 These figures include those of their spouse or civil partner and infant children, or stepchildren, as required by Section 822 of the Companies Act 2006.
There was no change in these beneficial interests between 28 March 2014 and 22 May 2014. outside appointMents Halfords recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit Halfords.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept Non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
During the year Matt Davies received fees of 41,250 as a NonExecutive Director of Dunelm Group plc.
107 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report annual reMuneration report continued loss of office payMents audited Paul McClenaghan left the business on 12 April 2013.
The Committee determined that it was appropriate to treat him as a Good Leaver and therefore allowed him to retain his PSP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 which will vest on a pro-rata basis in relation to the elapsed time of the performance period at his leaving date and subject to performance at the normal testing date.
Paul McClenaghan was also paid a lump sum of 218,025, being equivalent to nine months salary, in full and final settlement of any contractual obligations.
This sum was less than the amount he was due under the termination provisions of his service agreement.
payMents to forMer directors audited There were no payments to former directors during the year.
how was the reMuneration policy iMpleMented in 2013 2014 non-executive directors non-executive director single figure comparison audited Senior Committee Total Total Independent Chairman Single Figure Single Figure 3 1 2 Director Role Board Fees Director Fees 2014 2013 Dennis Millard Chairman 165,916 165,916 215,000 Bill Ronald Senior Independent Director 45,250 13,750 59,000 60,000 David Adams Audit Committee Chairman 45,250 1,250 5,000 51,500 50,000 Claudia Arney NED 45,250 417 45,667 45,000 Keith Harris Remuneration Committee Chairman 45,250 4,583 49,833 50,000 TOTALS 346,000 15,000 10,000 371,000 420,000 1.
On 1 March 2014 David Adams took over from Bill Ronald as Senior Independent Director.
On 1 March 2014 Claudia Arney took over from Keith Harris as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
On 1 March 2014 the fees for Non-Executive Directors were increased from 45,000 to 48,000, and the Chairmans fees were increased from 165,000 to 176,000 see page 110. non-executive director shareholding Director 2014 2013 Dennis Millard 50,000 40,000 Bill Ronald 11,538 11,538 David Adams 6,000 6,000 Claudia Arney 21,052 21,052 Keith Harris 3,386 3,386 Helen Jones n a These figures include those of their spouses, civil partners and infant children, or stepchildren, as required by Section 822 of the Companies Act 2006.
There was no change in these beneficial interests between 28 March 2014 and 22 May 2014.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding guideline but they are encouraged to buy shares in the Company.
how reMuneration policy will be iMpleMented for 2014 15 executive directors salary Base salaries were last reviewed with effect from 1 October 2013 and increases were made as per the details on page 103.
Current salaries for the Executive Directors are as follows: CEO 507,500 CFO 325,000 Salaries will next be reviewed with effect from 1 October 2014. annual bonus The annual bonus opportunity for 2014 15 will remain unchanged as follows: CEO Maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary 2 3rd paid in cash 1 3rd paid in Halfords shares deferred for three years CFO Maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary Paid in cash The annual bonus for 2014 15 will be based 80% on Profit Before Tax PBT performance and 20% based on performance against strategic objectives.
PBT targets are calibrated with reference to prior year performance and the Groups business plan and zero payment will be made for threshold performance with maximum payment being made for a stretch target and intermediate payments being made on a straight-line basis.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 The Committee reviews the goals included in the strategic objectives portion of the bonus to ensure that they remain appropriate.
For 2014 15 the Committee determined that the strategic objectives would be linked to the delivery of the Companys goal of delivering growth in top line revenues.
The Remuneration Committee have identified measures that it considers will measure the successful delivery of each objective and these also represent the non-financial strategic measures that will form part of the Executive Directors 2014 15 annual bonus plan.
These are detailed below: Measure Definition Net Promoter Score NPS Improved NPS as measured by the Empathica mechanism in store.
Average score over the final 3 months of the year.
Engagement Scores Improved colleague engagement scores as measured by the index achieved in the survey planned to take place in 2015.
Value Added Sales Increasing the total incremental sales in the financial year of 3Bs fitting, other auto fitting, cycle repair, Sat Nav attachment and cycle accessories.
Delivering an effective economic model If the increase in the incremental sales for at least 50% of the refreshed stores collectively is in excess of 1.5% the threshold for retail stores through the 50:39 project has been met, whilst ensuring that the balance of the portfolio also maintains postitive growth in sales.
If the incremental sales for at least 50% of the refreshed stores collectively is in excess of 3% the maximum has been met.
Colleague Retention Reducing the number of colleagues who leave the business as a percentage within 3 months of their start date.
In determining whether any bonuses are payable the Committee retains the discretionary authority to increase or decrease the bonus to ensure that the level of bonus paid is appropriate in the context of performance.
The details of bonus targets is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they could reveal information about Halfords business plan and budgeting process to competitors which could be damaging to Halfords business interests and therefore to shareholders.
share plans The Company has adopted four share plans: The Halfords Sharesave Scheme: the Halfords Company Share Option Scheme CSOS, a market value share option plan: the Halfords Performance Share Plan PSP : and the Halfords Co-Investment Plan it is intended that no further awards will be made under this plan.
Executive Directors do not particiapte in the CSOS.
For the Executive Directors the Committee intends to continue granting awards under the Performance share plan of 150% of base salary.
If exceptional performance is achieved up to 1.5x the core award can be earned performance multiplier.
The vesting of awards will be subject to meeting the following performance conditions: Group Revenue Growth Group EBTIDA Growth CAGR 25% of the award 75% of the award Award Multiplier 1.5 x initial award vesting 7.5% 9.0% up to 1.5 x initial award i. e. 225% of salary.
Straight-line vesting Between 6.5% and 7.5% Between 7.5% and 9.0% Core Award 100% Vesting 6.5% 7.5% 150% of salary Straight-line vesting Between 5.0% and 6.5% Between 5.0% and 7.5% 30% Vesting 5.0% 5.0%% 0% Vesting Below 5.0% Below 5.0% In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be subject to meeting an underpin of net debt to EBITDA ratio no greater than 1.5x throughout the three-year performance period.
This will ensure that net debt remains at appropriate levels and management is not incentivised to increase net debt levels to meet targets: the focus is to maximise the return on cash investments.
The Core Award shares that vest will become exercisable in August 2017.
To the extent that awards vest in line with the performance multiplier outlined above, these shares will only become exercisable in August 2019, following a retention period of two years.
While committed to the use of equity-based performance-related remuneration as a means of aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders, the Committee is aware of shareholders concerns on dilution through the issue of new shares to satisfy such awards.
Therefore, when reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into account the effects such arrangements may have on dilution.
Halfords intends to comply with the ABI guidelines relating to the issue of new shares for equity incentive plans.
benefits The Company will continue to provide a car plus fuel or cash allowance, private health insurance and life assurance as standard benefits.
pensions The Company will continue to makes contributions to the Halfords Pension Plan 2009 or make payments into a personal fund, the purpose of which is to provide additional benefits.
Contribution rates will remain at 20% for the CFO and 15% for the Finance Director.
109 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance reMuneraton coMMittee report annual reMuneration report continued how reMuneration policy will be iMpleMented for 2013 14 non-executive directors fees The fees of Non-Executive Directors shall normally be reviewed every two years to ensure that they are in line with market norms so that the Company can attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre and any changes to said fees will be approved by the Board as a whole following a recommendation from the Chief Executive.
The base fee for Non-Executive Directors was increased by 6.6% as from 1 March 2014.
At the same time following a recommendation by the CEO, the Remuneration Committee approved an increase of 6.6% in the Chairmans fees.
This was the first increase in these fees since April 2009.
Current fees for Non-Executive Directors are as follows: 2014 2013 Chairman 176,000 165,000 Base fee 48,000 45,000 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 15,000 15,000 Committee Chairman Audit and Remuneration 5,000 5,000 spend on pay The Committee is aware of the importance of pay across the Group in delivering the Groups strategy and of shareholders views on executive remuneration.
change in remuneration of chief executive compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of all colleagues: % change in base salary % change in bonus earned 1 FY13 to FY14 FY13 to FY14 % change in benefits FY13 to FY14 Chief Executive 1.50 196.5% No Change All Colleagues 1.94 270.2% No Change 1.
In FY13 the bonuses earned were based on the achievement of personal objectives and or sales incentives.
In FY14 the bonuses earned were based on the achievement of personal objectives and or sales incentives and the achievement of the Groups underlying EBITDA target.
relative importance of pay The Committee is also aware of shareholders views on remuneration and its relationship to other cash disbursements.
The following table shows the relationship between the Companys financial performance, payments made to shareholders, payments made to tax authorities and expenditure on payroll.
2014 2013 EBITDA 101.1m 103.4m PBT underlying 72.8m 72.0m Returned to Shareholders: Dividend 27.7m 42.7m Share Buyback - 0.9m Payments to Employees: Wages & Salaries 173.0m 153.5m 1 Including Directors 2.0m 1.51m 1.
Based on the single figure calculation, not all of which is included within wages and salary costs.
