Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Annual Remuneration Report The following section provides details of how Halmas remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year ending 29 March 2014, and how it will be implemented in 2014 15.
The Remuneration Committee All members of the Committee are considered independent within The primary responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to: the definition set out in the Code.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest in Halma other than as shareholders, Make recommendations to the Board on the framework for conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships or day-to-day executive Directors and senior executives remuneration based involvement in running the business.
on proposals formulated by the CEO: During the year the Committee met four times.
Attendance by Determine and agree with the Board the policy and framework for individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the Corporate the remuneration of the Chairman, CEO, other executive Directors, Governance section on page 60. the Company Secretary and members of the Executive Board: Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performanceOnly members of the Committee have the right to attend related pay plans operated by the Company and agree the total Committee meetings.
The CEO and Company Secretary attend annual payments made under such plans: the Committees meetings by invitation, but are not present when Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the their own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee also takes Board and shareholders, and determine, each year, whether independent professional advice as required.
awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior External Advisers executives and the performance targets to be set: and Kepler Associates acted as the independent remuneration Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements adviser to the Committee during the year, having been appointed for each executive Director and other senior executives.
Kepler attends Committee meetings, as appropriate, and provides advice on remuneration for executives, The Committee also monitors and considers, with the CEO, the analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular framework of remuneration for subsidiary CEOs and directors and market and best practice updates.
Kepler reports directly to the ensures a consistent approach is applied.
Committee Chairman and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website for Remuneration Consultants of UK-listed companies which can or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Kepler provides no other services to the Company, and is therefore As at 29 March 2014, the Committee comprised the following considered independent.
Keplers fees for the year were 24,000. non-executive Directors: Independent pension advice was provided to the Committee and the Steve Marshall Chairman Company by Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP during the year.
Total fees Stephen Pettit paid to them for the year were 66,000 primarily related to advice Norman Blackwell pertaining to cessation of future DB accrual.
Paul Walker from his appointment After year end, Jane Aikman and Daniela Barone Soares joined the Committee as recommended by the Nomination Committee and determined at the 10 April 2014 Board meeting.
Geoff Unwin was a member of the Committee during the year, until his retirement from the Board.
Shareholder Vote at 2013 annual general meeting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report at the 25 July 2013 annual generalmeeting.
Total For Against votes cast Abstentions Total number of votes 270,191,620 2,081,758 272,273,378 3,063,744 % of votes cast 99.2% 0.8% 100% 1.1% Total Single Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors The tables below set out the total single figure remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year to 29 March 2014 and the prioryear.
