60HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort PAuL HArriSon remunerAtion Committee CHAirmAn deAr SHAreHoLder 2014 PERFORMANCE AND REWARD The Committees other activities for the 2014 As the Chairman of the Remuneration Reward highlights for 2014 financial year have included: Committee, I am pleased to present the Base salary increase from 1 July 2014 of A review of the reward strategy in the report of the Board covering the 2.5% in line with average base pay increase context of Group risk: remuneration policy and practice.
This report for other UK employees: has been prepared in accordance with Consideration of the relationship between Annual bonus payments in respect of 2014 Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized executive reward and the reward are 122.5% of salary for both executive Companies and Groups Accounts and structures in place for other Group directors: and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the employees: provisions of the Code and the Listing Rules.
2011 PSP award 50% vested reflecting the A review of the Terms of Reference: and The report consists of three sections: performance over the three-year period ended 30 June 2014.
A review of the Remuneration Committee The Annual Statement by the advisers including a formal tender and Remuneration Committee Chairman: KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE selection process with a number of other The Committee considered changes to the The Remuneration Policy Report which advisory firms.
bonus deferral mechanism at the start of the sets out the Companys remuneration financial year, but following feedback from SHAreHoLderS policy for directors and the key factors that the consultation process decided not to The Committee welcomes feedback from were taken into account in setting the proceed with the proposed change.
This policy will apply for three years will continue to consult with shareholders as from its date of approval at the 2014 AGM: More recently the Committee has consulted and when appropriate and will ensure that and with its key shareholders and the main the reward arrangements are compliant with shareholder bodies following the end of the The Annual Report on Remuneration which the provisions of the Code.
financial year in relation to a change to the sets out payments made to the directors performance conditions for the Performance PAuL HArriSon and details the link between Company Share Plan.
The proposed changes were the remuneration Committee Chairman performance and remuneration for the introduction of a third performance condition, 2014 financial year.
28 August 2014 cash conversion, and a change to the method The Chairmans Statement and the Annual of setting the EPS performance condition to Report on Remuneration will be subject to an remove the reliance solely on analysts advisory vote at the AGM.
The Policy will be forecasts.
The Committee is grateful for the subject to a binding vote.
significant degree of engagement with the Company and its advisers shown by those bACkground shareholders consulted throughout the 2014 has been a strong year for Hays.
Client consultation process, and for their comments and candidate sentiment, and with it trading and feedback.
At the end of this process the conditions, have improved across many key Committee was pleased that a strong markets presenting clear opportunities to majority of shareholders consulted have grow.
The Group has capitalised well, driving indicated they are supportive of the changes.
1 1 5% net fee growth, 20% operating profit 2 growth and a 19% increase in EPS.
As a result the Board was able to propose an increase to the final dividend of 5%.
1 Like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 60HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 61 AT A GLANCE INTRODUCTION In this section, we summarise the purpose of our remuneration policy, its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives and we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for 2014.
More detail can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
OUR PRINCIPLES OF REMUNERATION There should be a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance to align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders: Variable remuneration makes up a significant proportion of the remuneration package 68% this year: and Stretching performance conditions directly aligned with Group strategy.
OUR STRATEGY We aim to build the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business and to deliver well-diversified and profitable fee growth.
Our four Strategic Pillars underpin everything we do in order to deliver on these long-term aims.
Additionally, our areas of Operational Focus describe how we manage the business on a day-to-day basis in response to changes in each market as and when they occur.
In an industry which has clear structural growth opportunities but is also characterised by cyclicality, this twin-track approach is critical to achieving our long-term aims whilst maximising the short-term performance of the Group.
Four Strategic Pillars Operational Focus One Hays around the world Fully capitalise on all opportunities Growth tailored to market opportunities Defend and maximise financial performance Best people in the industry Respond to and best serve existing and evolving client demands Efficiency and operational effectiveness Recruitment, training and leadership development Continue to research and respond to new media REMUNERATION POLICY How has the structure changed year-on-year?
Element Operation of Element Maximum Potential Value Performance Conditions and Assessment Salary No change in policy No change in policy n a Benefits No change in policy No change in policy n a Pension No change in policy No change in policy n a Bonus with deferral No change in policy No change in policy See below and page 72 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for full details of 2014 performance and bonus earned Performance Share Plan No change in policy No change in policy See below and page 72 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for full details of level of performance achieved and level of vesting for award in 2014 granted in September 2011 The Committee has changed the performance conditions for the awards to be granted in the 2015 financial year following a shareholder consultation exercise HOw HAvE wE PERFORMED?
Bonus Target Actual % of max achieved 1 EPS 4.99p to 6.09p 6.39p 100% Cash conversion 71% to 101% 113.19% 100% Personal CEO 90%: FD 90% September 2011 PSP Award Target Actual % of max achieved Relative TSR Median to upper quartile Above upper quartile 100% EPS 19.21p to 22.48p 16.59p 0% 1 See Bonus award table on page 72.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EDS FOR 2014 Taxable Annual PSP Pension Salary benefits Bonus 2011 Benefits Other Total 2014 Total 2013 Executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alistair Cox CEO 678 46 831 1,332 204 1 3,092 2,012 Paul Venables FD 489 29 599 960 147 1 2,225 1,426 62HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued remunerAtion PoLiCY introduCtion In accordance with the new regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective at the Annual General Meeting on 12 November 2014 and will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
PoLiCY SummArY The Committee determines the remuneration policy for the executive directors, Chairman and other senior executives for current and future years and this is reviewed on an annual basis.
The remuneration policy is designed to support the strategic objectives of the Company and to allow the business to attract, retain and motivate the quality of senior management needed to shape and execute strategy and deliver shareholder value.
The policy is designed around the following key principles: Ensure a strong link between reward and individual and Company performance to align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders: Maintain a competitive package against businesses of a comparable size in the FTSE and comparable peer group businesses in the recruitment sector with reference to the breadth of the role and experience the role holder brings to the Company: Operate a consistent reward and performance philosophy throughout the business: Encourage a material, personal stake in the business and a long-term focus on sustained growth through long-term shareholding: Provide a balanced package with a focus on variable pay: and Take into account the associated risks of each aspect of remuneration.
The ways in which these principles are reflected in the remuneration policy and its application are described on page 63 of this Report.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
The Committee has considered how the remuneration policy reflects Hays principal risks set out on pages 22 and 23 and, where appropriate, can mitigate these.
In addition, the Committee has incorporated malus provisions into the DAB and the PSP.
Annual Bonus Performance Shareholding Principal risks bonus deferral Share Plan PSP requirements Cyclical nature of our business Business model risk Talent retention risk Compliance risk Reliance on technology Contract risk Data governance Directly supports management action to mitigate principal risk through selected performance conditions, reinforced by associated malus condition Close linkage to management action to mitigate principal risk through a combination of selected performance conditions and shareholding Linkage to management action to mitigate principal risk through shareholding Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 62HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 63 diSCretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this Report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to the date of the 2014 AGM will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the AGM and may be inconsistent with the remuneration policies.
Such commitments include but are not limited to the following: Plan Grant Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Deferred share awards outstanding at the date of this Report.
PSP Outstanding awards at the date of this Report.
Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules and terms and conditions under which they were granted.
differenCeS in PoLiCY from tHe wider emPLoYee PoPuLAtion The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for the executive directors.
The Group operates global employee share and variable pay plans, with pension provisions the same for all executives and employees.
In addition, salary increases for executive directors are generally in line with those for UK based employees.
remunerAtion StruCture PoLiCY tAbLe elements of executive director remuneration package objective and link maximum potential Performance conditions to the strategy operation value and assessment base salary Base salary Base salary is set annually on 1 July.
The general policy for salary N A recognises individual is around median.
When determining the contribution, changes actual salary levels may differ base salary of the executive directors the in responsibilities and due to the impact of the other Committee takes into consideration: competitive market factors set out in the The levels of base salary for similar rates.
positions with comparable status, Provides a base level Increases will normally be in line responsibility and skills in organisations of remuneration to with the market and the average of broadly similar size and complexity: support recruitment base pay increase for other The comparator groups currently include and retention of employees in the UK.
the FTSE 250, the companies in the directors with Companys Total Shareholder Return The Company will set out in the thenecessary TSR comparator group used for PSP section headed Implementation experience and awards see page 66 for details and of Remuneration Policy in the expertise to deliver UK companies of a similar size and following financial year the the Groups strategy.
The Committee intends to salaries for that year for each of Key element of core review the comparator groups each year the executive directors fixed remuneration.
and may add or remove companies from see page 76. the group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes made in future to the comparator group will be disclosed to shareholders in setting out the operation of the policy for the subsequent year: The performance of the individual executive director: The individual executive directors experience and responsibilities: and Pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group when determining remuneration for the executive directors and also considers the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Group as a whole.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average until the target positioning is achieved.
64HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued elements of executive director remuneration package continued objective and link maximum potential Performance conditions to the strategy operation value and assessment Annual bonus To align reward 60% of bonus earned is paid in cash and Maximum 125% of base salary.
The current bonus performance conditions are: to key objectives 40% is deferred into shares for three years Threshold level of Earnings per share: relating to the under the deferred annual bonus plan performance earns 20% of Cash conversion: and Groups financial theDAB.
salary based on achieving Personal objectives.
performance and Malus provisions allow the Committee to threshold EPS and cash operational The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion reduce or eliminate share awards granted conversion.
Zero payment for that given the commercial sensitivity arising in strength.
under DAB in cases of material below threshold performance.
relation to the detailed financial targets used for The three-year misstatement of accounts.
the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the deferral into shares The Committee has discretion to reduce the bonus plan in advance would not be in shareholder assists with the number of shares vesting if the underlying interests.
This avoids the risk of the Company retention of financial performance of the Company is inadvertently providing a profit forecast, because executive directors not satisfactory over the three-year profit targets are linked to budgets, and giving and aligns their deferralperiod.
international competitors an unfair advantage interests with those because they are not required to report to the The Company operates in a rapidly of shareholders.
same disclosure standard as a UK listed company.
changing sector and therefore the Actual targets, performance achieved and awards Committee may change the balance of made will be published at the end of the the measures, or use different measures for performance periods so shareholders can fully subsequent financial years, as appropriate, assess the basis for any pay-outs under the to reflect this provided that at least 80% annual bonus.
are based on financial performance.
The Company will disclose the nature of the targets and their weightings at the end of each year in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
The performance conditions, targets, weightings and their level of satisfaction for the year being reported on, are contained in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 72.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to change the performance measures and targets and their respective weightings part way through a performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Dividend equivalents may be provided on deferred shares.
Performance To align executive PSP awards are granted annually and Normal awards of 175% of base Performance period of three financial years.
Share Plan director interests vesting is dependent on the achievement salary for executive directors The current performance conditions are: PSP award with those of of performance conditions.
and 120% for other senior shareholders and executives with absolute One-third based on total shareholder return Malus provisions exist which enable the relative to comparator group with vesting incentivise them to maximum of 200% of base Committee to reduce or eliminate the pursue superior salary in exceptional subject to satisfactory financial performance number of shares subject to unvested over the period, as determined by the results within the circumstances.
awards in case of material misstatement limits of the Groups Committee: of accounts.
Maximum and threshold One-third based on cumulative earnings risk appetite.
vesting levels for performance Reviewed annually to ensure that grant per share: and conditions are 100% and levels, performance criteria and other One-third based on cash conversion.
features remain appropriate to the The Company operates in a rapidly changing Companys current circumstances, and sector and therefore the Committee may change to ensure that there are no features of the the balance of the measures, or use different plan that could inadvertently motivate measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
No material change will be made to the type Dividend equivalents may be provided of performance condition without prior on vested shares.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Committee Report.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 64HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 65 elements of executive director remuneration package continued objective and link maximum potential Performance conditions to the strategy operation value and assessment Pension To provide a Company pension contribution or salary Maximum 30% of salary.
N A allowance competitive supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Salary supplements will not be included in calculating any benefit based on salary including the levels under the Companys incentive arrangements.
other To provide Benefits will generally include: The maximum will be set at N A benefits competitive the cost of providing the listed Car benefit or equivalent: employment benefits.
Permanent health insurance: and Life assurance.
The level of benefits provided is reviewed every year to ensure it remains market competitive.
Shareholding To ensure that The Committee requires the Chief Executive N A N A policy executive directors to build and maintain a material shareholding and other senior in the Company of at least two times base executives interests salary and any other executive directors to are aligned with build and maintain a shareholding of at least those of shareholders one times base salary over a reasonable over a longer time time frame, which would normally be horizon.
Other Management Board members also have the same shareholding requirement of one times base salary.
Only shares which are beneficially owned by the executives count towards this requirement.
The Committee has discretion to increase the shareholding requirement.
Sharesave To encourage wide The Company operates Sharesave Schemes UK scheme in line with HMRC There are no performance conditions, in line with Schemes employee share in which the executive directors are eligible limits as amended from time HMRC requirements, other than the inherent share ownership and to participate which in the UK is HMRC to time.
price growth required to receive a benefit.
thereby align approved and is open to all eligible staff Overseas schemes broadly in employees in the UK.
interests with The Company retains the discretion to shareholders.
introduce additional plans, and to make directors eligible for these as appropriate.
66HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued non-executive director remuneration objective and link maximum potential Performance conditions to the strategy operation value and assessment nonProvides a level The remuneration of the non-executive The fees are set around the None executive of fees to support directors is determined by the Board annually.
median compared to the director fees recruitment and Companys comparator groups.
The responsibility of the role and retention of noninternational nature of the Group are fully In general, rises will be linked executive directors considered when setting the fee levels, to those provided to UK with the necessary along with external benchmarking market employees and or inflation.
experience to data on the chairmanship of, and advise and assist The fees as at 1 July 2014 for participation in, Board committees.
The the non-executive directors with establishing comparator groups used are consistent and monitoring the are paid at the annual rates as with those used for the executive directors.
shown below: Groups strategic objectives.
The non-executive directors fees are Fees non-pensionable and non-executive Role 000 directors are not eligible to participate Chairman 240 in any incentive plans.
Senior Independent Director 5 Base fee 52.5 Chairman of Board Committee 12 In addition, travel expenses are reimbursed.
Notes to the policy table: 1 In relation to the annual bonus: 2 In relation to the PSP: 3 The current constituents of the Companys TSR a. T he EPS metric is a key performance measure a.
The relative TSR metric measures the relative comparator group are shown below: aligned with shareholder interests.
return from Hays shares against a basket of Adecco SA b.
The cash conversion measure promotes free comparator companies, providing alignment CDI Corporation cash flow through working capital and capital with shareholders interests.
Kelly Services Inc expenditure control and is a key indicator of b.
The EPS metric is also a key performance Manpower Inc the efficiency of the business.
The method of measure aligned with shareholders interests.
Michael Page International plc calculation is as follows: The Operating Cash The Committee takes into account the following Randstad Holdings Nv Flow of the Company as used in the preparation factors when setting the EPS targets for Robert Half International Inc of the Companys audited consolidated report an award: Robert Walters plc and accounts after deducting Net Capital Budget the setting of which is a robust and SThree plc Expenditure, stated as a percentage of the transparent process.
USG People Nv Companys Operating Profit before Exceptional Company budget for year one and the The peer group has been chosen to reflect most closely Items for each year.
The calculation may be expectations for performance: the mix of the Companys business.
adjusted for any unusual non-recurring items Strategic direction of the business over the that the Committee consider do not reflect the period covered by the PSP award: underlying performance of the Company.
Market conditions and visibility of future c. P ersonal objectives are linked to the delivery of trading.
key projects designed to enhance the Groups Minimum and maximum ongoing growth operational strength and competitiveness in expectations set around a fixed range currently line with future strategy.
c. T he cash conversion measure promotes sustained free cash flow through working capital and capital expenditure control and is a key indicator of the efficiency of the business and supports the implementation of the Company strategy.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 66HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 67 ServiCe ContrACtS The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12 month period will apply for executive directors.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
In the event of early termination of a directors service contract, the Company would be required to pay compensation reflecting the salary, pension allowance and benefits to which the director would have become entitled under the contract during the notice period.
Alternatively, the Company may, at its discretion, pay a predetermined sum in lieu of notice.
In the event of early termination, the Committee will give careful consideration to what compensation should be paid, taking into account the circumstances and the responsibility of the individual to mitigateloss.
The contract of the Chief Executive was agreed prior to 27 June 2012 and includes in his sum in lieu of notice an amount equal to his on-target bonus pro-rated for time.
All future contracts will contain a PILON clause based purely on salary, pension allowance and benefits with payments staged over the notice period and an obligation to mitigate loss.
Current contract start date Unexpired term Notice period from Company Notice period from executive Alistair Cox Sep 2007 Indefinite One year One year Paul venables May 2006 Indefinite One year Six months The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but are appointed to the Board under letters of appointment for an initial three-year period.
They have agreed to annual retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting and, with the exception of the Chairman, appointments can be terminated immediately by the Company.
Letters of appointment are available for review from the Company Secretary and a pro forma letter of appointment can be viewed on the Companys website hays.
Non-executive director Date appointed to the Board Date of current letter of appointment Notice period Alan Thomson 1 October 2010 14 July 2010 Renewed Three months William Eccleshare 24 November 2004 31 August 2010 Renewed None Paul Harrison 8 May 2007 31 August 2011 None victoria Jarman 1 October 2011 31 August 2011 None Torsten Kreindl 1 June 2013 30 May 2013 None Richard Smelt 15 November 2007 31 August 2011 None Pippa Wicks 1 January 2012 30 November 2011 None PAYmentS to dePArting direCtorS The Committee will honour executive directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive directors office or employment.
When determining any payment for a departing individual the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company while seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
The table below shows the approach the Committee will apply in respect of base salary, benefits and pension in respect of departing directors.
Application of Remuneration Committee Component Approach Discretion Base salary, benefits In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for departure due None and pension to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, executive directors may be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice will be equivalent to the salary payments, benefit value and pension contributions that they would have received if still employed by the Company for a maximum of 12 months.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to N A obligations 27June 2012.
68HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued The rules of the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus set out the treatment of leavers.
The table below shows the principles that the Committee will apply when determining payments to departing directors.
The Committee will consider the details of each case taking into account the principles shown below and give due regard to the interests of the individual and shareholders.
It should be noted that the Committee will only use its general discretion to determine that an executive director is a good leaver in exceptional circumstances and will provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for its determination.
The Committee is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
Cash Annual Bonus DAB Deferred Bonus Shares PSP Resignation Not paid.
Retirement Bonus paid at normal time, subject Treated as good leaver, i. e. awards Treated as good leaver, i. e. normal to performance with pro-rating vest in full at normal vesting date, vesting period, awards pro-rated for time.
for time and performance, subject to non-compete clause.
Injury Ill-health Bonus paid at normal time, subject A good leaver as defined by the plan A good leaver as defined by the Disability to performance with pro-rating rules, i. e. awards vest in full at normal plan rules, i. e. normal vesting period, for time.
awards pro-rated for time and performance.
Death Bonus paid immediately based on A good leaver as defined by the plan A good leaver as defined by the estimated result, pro-rated for time.
rules, i. e. awards vest in full on plan rules, i. e. early vesting of awards cessation of employment.
pro-rated for time and performance.
Change of control Bonus payment subject to pro-rating Immediate vesting of awards in full In accordance with the plan rules, for time and performance.
in accordance with plan rules.
i. e. where no replacement award there will be early vesting of awards pro-rated for time and performance.
Notes: 1 Other good leaver reasons under the DAB and PSP rules are:- a. the executives employing company ceasing to be a Group company: b. the executives employment being transferred, as part of a business transfer, to a non Group company: c. w here the Committee determines that the executive is a good leaver.
Other than as set out above the Committee will only use its general discretion to determine that an executive director is a good leaver in exceptional circumstances and will provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for its determination.
2 It should be noted that shares vesting under the DAB rules are shares related to previously earned bonus and therefore the performance conditions for the relevant annual bonus had to be met before the shares were awarded.
3 Under the DAB rules the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest early in exceptional circumstances following cessation of employment as a good leaver.
It is anticipated that this would only apply in the case of death in service.
4 Where the executive ceases employment for one of the reasons set out in note 1 a. and 1 b. or dies, the PSP award will be pro-rated for time and performance and vests at the date of cessation.
5 T he Committee has discretion under the rules of the PSP to bring forward the date of vesting for a good leaver to the date of the cessation of employment subject to the award being pro-rated for time and performance.
It is not the current intention of the Committee to use this discretion.
6 The Committee has determined that it is a condition in certain circumstances for executives receiving shares under the DAB and PSP on cessation of employment to agree to be subject to a non-compete clause.
The Committee retains the discretion not to impose this type of condition.
7 Executives would be treated in accordance with the scheme rules in respect of the Hays Sharesave scheme.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 68HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 69 Setting PAYmentS for new APPointmentS The Companys principle is the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles for the executive directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table above.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the international market in which the Companycompetes.
The Remuneration Committee will not pay more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The table below summarises the Companys key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration for executive directors: Component Policy Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals benefits experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within the Company and will be consistent with the salary policy for executive directors.
The executive director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with the Companys benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension Pension will be provided in line with the Companys remuneration policy for executive directors.
Annual Bonus and An executive director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus arrangements as set out in the Deferred Bonus remuneration policy table.
For the first year only, the Committee retains the discretion to set performance conditions in the context of the business priorities on joining and the timeframe available to year end.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the Committees discretion.
Performance Share Plan An executive director will be eligible to participate in the PSP as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under plan rules at the Committees discretion.
Share buy-outs The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
replacement awards However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buyout, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive director is expected to relocate, the Company will provide one-off ongoing payment s as part of the relocation benefits compensation.
The level of relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any differences in the cost of living housing schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Annual Remuneration Committee Report for the relevant financial year.
The annual fees payable to newly recruited non-executive directors will be in line with the fees payable to existing non-executive directors.
70HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued Value of package 000 remunerAtion SCenArio grAPHS 3,500 for exeCutive direCtorS The charts opposite illustrate the remuneration that would 3,000 be paid to each of the executive directors, based on salaries 40.1% at the start of financial year 2015, under three different 2,500 performance scenarios: i Minimum: ii On-target: and iii 34.0% Maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been 2,000 40.2% categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii Annual 28.6% 1,500 variable: and iii Multiple variable.
34.2% 23.4% 28.7% 1,000 23.4% 100% 42.6% 31.3% 500 100% 42.4% 31.1% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Chief Executive Group Finance Director Fixed Annual variable Multiple variable Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary and pension in respect of the 2014 financial year and benefits as disclosed under the single figure.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable where performance measures relate to one financial year i. e. annual bonus payments.
Multiple variable Money or other assets received or receivable where performance measures relate to more than one financial year i. e. PSP payments.
Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows: Minimum performance scenario assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments under annual bonus and Companys PSP: On-target performance scenario assumes performance in line with the Companys expectations, resulting in 109.4% base salary payout in respect of the PSP 62.5% of maximum award of 175% of base salary and 75% base salary payout in respect of the annual bonus 60% of maximum bonus of 125%.
There is no formal on-target figure for the PSP, 62.5% is midway between the 25% threshold and the maximum, based on an award of 175% of basic salary: and Maximum performance scenario assumes outstanding level of performance, resulting in 175% base salary payout in respect of the PSP and 125% base salary payout in respect of the annual bonus.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to deferred share bonus and PSP share awards.
StAtement of ConditionS eLSewHere in tHe grouP Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors and the members of the Management Board, the Committee considers a report prepared by the Group HR Director detailing remuneration practice across the Group.
The report provides a regional overview of how employee pay compares to the market, any material changes during the year and includes detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK where all of the executive directors and most of the Management Board are based.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the remuneration policy set out in this report, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee population on an annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
ConSiderAtion of SHAreHoLder viewS The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its remuneration policy.
In line with this commitment the Committee consulted this year with shareholders on the change to the performance conditions for the PSP.
The Committee is grateful for the significant degree of engagement with the Company and its advisers shown by those shareholders consulted throughout the consultation process, and for their comments and feedback.
At the end of this process the Remuneration Committee is pleased that a strong majority of Shareholders consulted have indicated they are supportive of the changes to the Plan.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 70HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 71 AnnuAL rePort on remunerAtion SingLe totAL figure of remunerAtion Audited executive directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each executive director in respect of the 2014 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2013 financial year have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the provisions of the Code and the Listing Rules.
2014 2013 taxable Annual PSP Pension Taxable Annual PSP Pension 1 2 3 5 6 1 2 4 5 6 In s thousand Salary benefits bonus 2011 benefits other total Salary benefits bonus 2010 benefits Other Total Chief executive Alistair Cox 678 46 831 1,332 204 1 3,092 665 75 786 287 199 2,012 group finance director Paul venables 489 29 599 960 147 1 2,225 480 28 567 207 144 1,426 1 The type of benefits provided are set out in the Policy section of the Report.
2 Messrs Cox and venables are required to compulsorily defer 40% 332,428 and 239,680 respectively of their 2014 annual bonuses into shares for a three-year restricted period.
The comparative data for 2013 for Messrs Cox and venables, also based on 40% compulsory deferral, included bonus deferral into shares of 314,450 and 226,718 respectively.
Both the value of the cash element and the deferred shares are shown in the annual bonus for the respective years in accordance with the Regulations.
3 The value of the 2011 PSP is based on a share price of 148.88 pence which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2014 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting will occur after the date of this report.
The share price on award was 70.9 pence.
4 The value of the 2010 PSP disclosed in the 2013 Remuneration Committee Report was based on a share price of 92.47 pence which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2013 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting occurred after the Report was signed-off.
The actual share price on the date of vesting on 27 September 2013 was 115.23 pence.
This price has been used to restate the value of the 2010 LTIP awards in the single figure table for 2013 in the table above.
5 Other than a cash payment in lieu of pension at the rate of 30% of base salary, there are no other pension arrangements for the directors.
6 Other payments relate to the value of the discount on SAYE options at the date of grant in accordance with the Regulations.
On 31 March 2014 Alistair Cox and Paul venables were granted SAYE options over 6,870 and 4,122 shares respectively at an option price of 131p per share, representing a 10% discount to the market price.
non-executive directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director.
With the exception of the Chairman, the fees paid to the non-executive directors were increased by 2% with effect from 1 July 2013.
2014 2013 taxable Taxable In s thousand fees benefits total Fees benefits Total Role Alan Thomson 230 230 230 230 Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee Paul Harrison 68 68 67 67 SID and Chairman of Remuneration Committee William Eccleshare 51 51 50 50 Independent non-executive director victoria Jarman 63 63 62 62 Chairman of Audit Committee Torsten Kreindl 51 51 2 2 Independent non-executive director Richard Smelt 51 51 50 50 Independent non-executive director Pippa Wicks 51 51 50 50 Independent non-executive director In s thousand 2014 fee 2013 Fee Chairman 230 230 Senior Independent Director 5 5 Board fee 51 50 1 Chairman of Board Committee 12 12 Member of Board Committee 0 0 1 There is no additional Committee Chair fee for the Nomination Committee.
72HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued AdditionAL informAtion regArding SingLe figure tAbLe Audited The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder expectations, cyclicality of the recruitment markets in which the Group operates and external advice.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
bonus awards In respect of the 2014 financial year, the bonus awards payable to executive directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys results and the executive directors performance against their personal objectives.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2014 financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figure table.
Threshold Maximum Annual bonus value for meeting performance performance Actual threshold and maximum Annual bonus value achieved Performance condition Weighting required required performance performance % salary % salary 000 Alistair Cox Paul venables Alistair Cox Paul venables EPS 60% 4.99p 6.09p 6.39p 15% 75% 15% 75% 75% 509 75% 367 Cash conversion 20% 71% 101% 113.19% 5% 25% 5% 25% 25% 169 25% 122 Personal 20% 0% 25% 0% 25% 22.5% 153 22.5% 110 Total 100% 122.5% 831 122.5% 599 The performance levels between threshold, target and maximum were graduated on a straight-line basis.
Of this amount, 40% will be compulsorily deferred into restricted shares for a period of three years, subject only to continued employment.
The basic EPS targets and actual performance were measured at budget exchange rates.
Cash conversion is the operating cash flow of the Company, after deducting net capital expenditure items for the financial year, stated as a percentage of operating profit before exceptional items.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to the bonus outcomes.
It is the Committees view that the personal performance conditions are commercially sensitive and therefore details cannot be disclosed.
Performance Share Plan awards Awards granted under the PSP in September 2011 are scheduled to vest on 23 September 2014.
The three-year performance period relating to these awards ended on 30 June 2014.
Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied are set out below all details apply to both executive directors : PSP value for below threshold, Performance Threshold Maximum threshold and maximum Actual PSP value achieved condition Weighting performance required performance required performance % salary performance % salary One quarter of the component will vest for achieving Upper quartile of median of the the comparator Above Relative TSR 50% comparator group group 0% 21.875% 87.5% upper quartile 87.5% EPS 50% 19.21p 22.48p 0% 21.875% 87.5% 16.59p 0% Total 100% 0% 43.75% 175% 87.5% Performance levels between threshold and maximum are graduated on a straight-line basis.
Notes: 1 For the purpose of ranking the performance of Hays shares against a sector group of comparator companies, TSR for each company is the difference between the average market values in sterling terms of a notional shareholding in that company on all dealing days for the three-month periods prior to the start and the end of the performance period divided by the average market values in sterling terms of a notional shareholding in that company on all dealing days for the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The TSR for Hays shares is ranked against the respective TSR performances of Adecco SA, CDI Corporation, Kelly Services Inc, Manpower Inc, Michael Page International plc, Randstad Holdings Nv, Robert Half International Inc, Robert Walters plc, SThree plc and USG People Nv.
vesting will be subject to satisfactory financial performance over the performance period as determined by the Committee.
2 Cumulative earnings per share is the consolidated basic earnings per share of the Company calculated in accordance with IAS 33 for each financial year cumulative over the performance period.
Goodwill impairments arising from acquisitions prior to 30 June 2006 are excluded from the earnings per share calculation.
3 The Committee may make adjustments to the calculations of cumulative earnings per share and cumulative cash conversion, including taking account of unusual or nonrecurring items that do not reflect underlying performance.
4 The original award was 1,601,657 shares for the Chief Executive and 1,154,795 for the Group Finance Director of which 50% vested and will be released with the associated dividend equivalent shares, giving totals of 894,674 and 645,059 respectively.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 72HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 73 Long-term inCentiveS AwArded in 2014 Audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2014 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of award Maximum percentage Award Basis on which Face value vesting at threshold of face value Performance Performance 1 type award made of award performance that could vest period end date conditions Relative TSR & EPS Alistair Cox PSP Annual 1,187,244 25% 100% 30 June 2016 equally weighted Relative TSR & EPS Paul venables PSP Annual 856,002 25% 100% 30 June 2016 equally weighted 1 The face value of the award is the maximum number of shares that can vest multiplied by the share price at grant.
The awards were granted on 12 September 2013, the face value is calculated using the closing share price of the preceding day, 11 September 2013 which was 113.9 pence.
The performance conditions are as set out in the Policy section of the Report.
The lower and upper EPS growth range for the first year of the performance period is based on consensus forecast for the year being a range of -4% around the consensus.
The consensus EPS figure for financial year 2014 was 5.66p.
The EPS growth range for the remaining two years requires additional growth of between RPI 4% and RPI 12% per annum to achieve threshold and maximum vesting respectively.
PAYmentS to PASt direCtorS PAYmentS for LoSS of offiCe There were no payments in the financial year.
StAtement of direCtorS SHAreHoLdingS Audited Shareholding requirements in operation at Hays are currently 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director.
Both the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are required to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time which would normally be five years.
The number of shares of the Company in which current directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at 30 June 2014 are set out in the table below.
Shares held directly Other shares held Options DAB interests Shareholding Number of Current not subject to PSP interests subject Shareholding requirement shares required shareholding Beneficially performance to performance requirement Director % salary to hold % salary owned conditions conditions vested Unvested met?
Unvested PSP shares do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines.
Shares awarded under the DAB count towards the shareholding requirement on a post-tax basis, i. e. 53% of the DAB interests shown are included in the current shareholding value.
Directors are not obliged to hold shares after leaving the Company.
SHAre oPtionS Audited Both executive directors participate in the UK Sharesave Scheme on the same terms as other eligible employees.
The following are options over Ordinary shares exercised by the directors during the year ended 30 June 2014: balance Market price Balance Scheme 1 July 30 June Option Exercise on date of Date from which Expiry 1 Date of Grant 2013 Exercised 2014 price date exercise Gain exercisable date Alistair Cox UK Sharesave 30 March 2011 8,058 8,058 112.00p 6 May 2014 149.5p 3,022 1 May 2014 31 Oct 2014 Paul venables UK Sharesave 26 March 2010 3,903 3,903 93.00p 15 Oct 2013 122.3p 1,144 1 May 2013 31 Oct 2013 UK Sharesave 30 March 2011 4,834 4,834 112.00p 20 Jun 2014 147.8p 1,731 1 May 2014 31 Oct 2014 1 Gain shown is theoretical gain had all shares been sold on exercise.
Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares are set out below: Shares held Shares held Director 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 Alan Thomson 200,000 175,000 Paul Harrison 8,678 8,678 William Eccleshare 3,000 3,000 victoria Jarman 14,000 14,000 Torsten Kreindl Richard Smelt 8,267 8,267 Pippa Wicks 74HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued ComPAriSon of overALL PerformAnCe And PAY 220 tSr grAPH The graph opposite shows the value of 100 invested in 200 the Companys shares compared to the FTSE 350 index 180 over a five-year period.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in 160 share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 140 350 is the appropriate index because the Company has 120 been a member of this index throughout the period.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with Regulations.
100 80 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Year Hays FTSE 350 CHief exeCutive HiStoriC remunerAtion The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last five years, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
Chief Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Single Figure 000 1,634 2,157 1,328 2,012 3,092 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 89% 80% 37% 95% 98% PSP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity 0% 50% 0% 22% 50% DAB match vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity N A 59% 60% N A n A CHAnge in CHief exeCutiveS remunerAtion ComPAred witH uk emPLoYeeS The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive from 2013 to 2014 compared with the average percentage change for UK employees.
The Chief Executives remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits, excluding his allowance in lieu of pension, and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
The UK employee pay on which the average percentage change is based is calculated using the increase in the earnings of UK-based full-time employees using P60 and P11d data from tax years 2013 and 2014.
Part time employees have been excluded from the analysis as many will have experienced material changes in pay during the period due to their change of hours.
The employee analysis is done on a matched basis, that is, the same individuals appear in the 2013 and 2014 populations.
The comparison figures are based on UK employees as described above as both executive directors and most of the Management Board are UK based and this is considered to be an appropriate comparison.
Salary Taxable benefits variable pay % % % 000 000 change 000 000 change 000 000 change 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Chief Executive 678 665 2.0 46 75 -38.5 831 786 5.7 UK total pay 45,010 43,382 1,404 1,157 24,014 19,153 Number of employees 1,284 1,284 1,284 1,284 1,284 1,284 Average per employee 35 34 3.8 1.1 0.9 21.3 19 15 25.4 Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 74HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 75 reLAtive imPortAnCe of tHe SPend on PAY The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2014 financial year and 2013 financial year compared with other disbursements.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Hays Annual Report.
disbursements Disbursements from profit in 2014 from profit in 2013 financial year financial year m m % change Profit distributed by way of dividend 37.2 35.1 5.98 Overall spend on pay including Directors 424.4 428.1 - 0.86 ComPoSition And termS of referenCe of tHe remunerAtion Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the remuneration policy and for determining specific packages for the executive directors, the Chairman and other senior executives.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of remuneration policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, hays.
com, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
The Committee is Chaired by Paul Harrison and additionally comprises William Eccleshare, victoria Jarman, Torsten Kreindl, Richard Smelt and Pippa Wicks.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors and served throughout the year.
The Committee receives assistance from the Chairman, Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also attended by invitation on occasions.
The Committee met four times during the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and all members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committees activities for the 2014 financial year have included: A review of the basic pay, bonus and PSP awards of the executive directors, and other senior executives: Consideration of the appropriateness of the existing arrangements for the 2015 financial year: A review of the reward strategy in the context of Group risk: Consideration of the relationship between executive reward and the reward structures in place for other Group employees: A review of the Terms of Reference: and A review of the Remuneration Committee advisers including a formal tender and selection process with a number of other advisory firms AdviSerS to tHe remunerAtion Committee Following a formal tendering process, the Committee continues to engage the services of  LLP PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of remuneration policy for executive directors and members of the Management Board.
PwC also provided advice to the Company in relation to corporate tax, indirect tax, legal services and tax administration and compliance matters relating to the operation of the Companys share schemes around the world.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Adviser Fees in relation to remuneration advice 000 PwC 69.2 SHAreHoLder Context The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2013 Remuneration Report at the Companys 2013 AGM.
The Committee believes the 94.85% votes in favour of the Remuneration Report shows strong shareholder support for the Groups remuneration arrangements.
The Committee consults with key investors prior to any major changes.
votes for % votes against % Abstentions 971,001,593 94.85 52,754,923 5.15 10,106,320 76HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 remunerAtion rePort Continued imPLementAtion of remunerAtion PoLiCY in finAnCiAL YeAr 2015 The approach for 2015 is shown below: Salaries and fees The salaries and fees for 2015 are set out below: Chief Executive: 695,386 Group Finance Director: 501,373 Chairman: 240,000 Non-executive director: 52,500 benefits and Pension No changes are proposed to benefits or pension in 2015. bonus Plan The maximum bonus opportunities for the executive directors remain at: Chief Executive: 125% of salary Group Finance Director: 125% of salary The weighting of the performance conditions remains at: Performance condition Weighting EPS 60% Cash conversion 20% Personal 20% Total 100% The operation of the Bonus Plan is otherwise as set out in the Policy Report.
It should be noted that the Committee views the disclosure of the actual performance targets as commercially sensitive.
The Committee will provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance targets for the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus earned in the context of the performance delivered.
The Committee believes that some of the personal objectives may continue to remain commercially sensitive.
PSP Award The maximum PSP award for the executive directors remain at: Chief Executive: 175% of salary Group Finance Director: 175% of salary The performance conditions are as set out in the Policy Section of the Report.
By order of the Board doug evAnS Company Secretary 28 August 2014
