Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 33 Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement It has been another strong year for HellermannTyton, with performance exceeding Group business plan targets.
Sales revenue On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present and underlying EBITA, two of the four key measures used by the the report of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended Company to measure the Groups performance, which are shown 31 December 2014. on page 18 and are the two principal performance measures for the annual bonus, increased by 13.5% and 11.4% respectively Last year we reported for the first time on our remuneration in constant currency terms and exceeded the budgeted amounts arrangements as a listed company and shareholders were asked to by 7.1% and 4.4% respectively.
As a result, the Remuneration vote at the 2014 AGM on our remuneration policy, as well as on the Committee has awarded an annual bonus of 61.12% of salary rest of the remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act to Steve Salmon and 52.61% of salary to Tim Jones.
provisions that came into force in October 2013.
The remuneration policy received strong support from shareholders, with a 95.43% vote No Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards have yet qualified for vesting in favour and the rest of the remuneration report received a 98.16% as the vesting date of the first LTIP awards made on the date of the vote in favour.
The Committee believes that the policy approved last Companys listing is 2 April 2016. year continues to support appropriately our remuneration principles, In determining the 2014 LTIP awards granted to the Executive Directors which are to: and key senior managers, the Committee considered in particular the attract and retain the best talent: performance measures to be applied in the light of our remuneration principles, as set out above.
It noted that relative total shareholder drive behaviours that support the Groups strategy and business return TSR remained an effective basis for aligning shareholder and objectives: executive interests and therefore decided that it should be retained as reward senior managers appropriately for their personal and an LTIP performance measure.
The Committee noted at the same time collective achievements: and that the Companys long-term objective is to achieve growth of between 3% and 4% above that of global industrial production, provide incentives that help to maintain commitment over the and concluded that growth in earnings per share EPS continued longer term and align the interests of senior management with to provide an appropriate measure for incentivising management to those of shareholders.
achieve this long-term objective and should therefore also be retained, Consequently, our remuneration policy is unchanged from last year with vesting of 50% of the award being subject to each of the two and shareholders will not be asked to vote on the policy at our 2015 performance measures.
The Committee reviewed various forecasts AGM.
Nevertheless, as requested by certain bodies representing of global economic growth for 20142016 and noted that the institutional investors, we have set out the policy in this Directors average annual forecast rate of growth over the three years was of the remuneration report.
Accordingly, the Committee concluded that the threshold vesting level of 7% annual EPS growth was consistent with The Committee notes the new requirement for malus and clawback in the Companys long-term growth objective.
the UK FRC UK Corporate Governance Code, and confirms that the Company currently has discretion to apply clawback to paid and vested The Committee awarded salary increases of 2.5% to each of the awards under both the annual bonus and LTIP if the measures on Executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2015, in line with the salary which the awards are based are misstated or in the event of gross increases awarded to the Groups UK employees.
In light of this, the Committee has determined not to On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their effect changes at this time, and will review the appropriateness of continued support and recommend this report to you.
adjusting the clawback provision to include malus when the current policy expires.
David Lindsell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2015 HellermannTyton 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Policy report Further, the Committee endeavours to ensure that remuneration policy is consistent with sound corporate governance and in accordance Directors remuneration policy with the guidance of institutional shareholder bodies such as the The Committees primary objective is to ensure that reward packages Association of British Insurers.
for Directors and senior executives are competitive in order to attract In addition to reviewing and approving the remuneration of Executive and retain the best talent, and are directly linked to the achievement Directors and the remuneration arrangements for the Groups senior of performance targets.
The Committee has completed an annual managers, the Committee administers the Companys share incentive review of the policy for continued appropriateness and relevance and plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans remuneration, is satisfied that no changes to policy are required at this time.
The although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the NonCommittee will continue to assess the remuneration arrangements executive Directors.
No Director is involved in determining his own of the Company and monitor market trends on an annual basis.
The Companys policy on executive remuneration is that the This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive Remuneration Committee should satisfy itself that Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors, which shareholders approved at the are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups 2014 AGM and was brought into effect formally from 30 April 2014 performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that they receive a level the date of the 2014 AGM.
The Policy Report has been updated and of remuneration that is appropriate to their scale of responsibility and clarified as follows: performance and that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2015 salaries: The Committee believes it is important that executive remuneration is weighted to rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation Doughty Hanson disposed of their shareholding during 2014 and of shareholder value over time: an exceptional achievement in terms of therefore the terms of the Relationship Agreement no longer apply: longer-term shareholder value creation should attract upper quartile and levels of remuneration, whilst below average value creation should clarification that pensionable remuneration will be restricted to base result in much more modest levels of remuneration.
With this in mind, salary for all future Executive Directors.
remuneration for the Executive Directors is structured around five main components: base salary, pension and benefits, annual performance bonus, the Long Term Incentive Plan and all-employee share plans.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The table below summarises the key components of remuneration package for Executive Directors: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Typically reviewed annually by the Base salary increases are Base salary Not applicable.
Committee with any changes taking applied in line with the To provide an appropriate effect on 1 April.
outcome of the annual level of salary to support recruitment and retention, When setting the Executive Directors review.
with due regard to the base salaries the Committee Salary increases for Executive individuals responsibilities considers a range of factors, including: Directors will not normally and experience.
salary levels for similar jobs in exceed those of the wider relevant UK listed companies workforce over the term of comparable to HellermannTyton this policy.
Increases may be in size and complexity: above this level if there is an personal performance and increase in the scale, scope, experience: market comparability or the individuals role within the Group responsibilities of the role.
and level of responsibility: Where increases are awarded the balance between fixed and in excess of the wider variable reward: and employee population, the relative remuneration levels Committee will explain its throughout the Group.
rationale in the relevant years annual report on remuneration.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 35 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Executive Directors are eligible to Company contribution Pension Not applicable.
participate in one of the Groups of up to 21% of salary To provide a competitive defined contribution pension plans.
and pensionable bonus pension provision.
The pensionable element of Executive capped at 10% of salary.
Directors remuneration is capped Contribution percentage and this applies whether or not an of salary may be exceeded executive is a member of one of the in exceptional circumstances defined contribution pension plans or e. g. recruitment see has a personal pension arrangement.
Notes to the policy table on page 36.
The Executive Directors receive a Benefits vary by role and Benefits Not applicable.
range of benefits, including: individual circumstance, To provide benefits that are private health insurance: and are reviewed periodically competitive.
income protection scheme: to ensure they remain life assurance: and appropriate.
company car or car allowance.
Where appropriate, other benefits may be offered, including, but not limited to, allowances for relocation.
Performance is based on annual The annual bonus provides Performance is based on Group Annual bonus targets for each financial year.
for awards of up to 100% of targets.
To motivate and reward Performance measures and targets base salary per annum.
Group performance measures will executives personal and are set at the start of each financial Bonus for on-target include, but may not be limited to, collective achievements.
year to be consistent with business performance is 45% of salary.
adjusted underlying earnings before priorities for the period.
interest, tax and amortisation EBITA At the end of the year, the Committee and sales.
determines the extent to which these A bonus award may be clawed back were achieved.
at any time within 12 months after Awards are paid in cash.
payment if the measures on which Payment of 30% of the bonus may be the bonus award is based are deferred for up to three years.
misstated or in the event of gross misconduct.
HellermannTyton 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics The Committee may grant annual Awards may be granted Awards vest subject to three-year Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards.
each year up to 200% earnings per share EPS growth and LTIP Awards are granted in the form of of salary.
three-year relative total shareholder To incentivise and reward long-term performance performance shares or nominal cost At threshold performance, return TSR, each equally weighted.
and to support alignment options which vest after three years 25% of the award is payable.
Relative TSR is measured against the with shareholders through subject to achievement of FTSE 250 Index excluding investment relative stock market performance conditions and trusts.
Ahead of each performance outperformance.
cycle, the Committee may review and Performance periods are three years.
adjust the TSR comparator group for Ahead of each grant, the performance future cycles to ensure it remains measures and targets are reviewed by relevant to HellermannTyton.
the Committee to ensure they remain Before finalising the amounts of longappropriate.
term incentives that will vest, the Dividends may accrue on LTIP awards Committee may also consider other and be paid on those shares that vest.
measures of assessing underlying performance and, if appropriate, reduce the level of vesting.
Awards vesting under the LTIP are subject to clawback at any time within 12 months after the date of vesting if the measures on which the award is based are misstated or in the event of gross misconduct.
An HMRC approved scheme under Executive Directors can The vesting of matching shares is Global Share Plan GSP which employees are invited to make purchase HellermannTyton usually subject to continued To reward past support and contributions to buy partnership shares shares up to the HMRC employment and, at the Committees loyalty to the Company, encourage share ownership using gross pay.
If an employee agrees permitted allowance, which discretion, may be subject to and align their interests with to buy partnership shares, the are then subject to a performance targets.
The matching those of shareholders.
company currently matches the maximum match in line shares may also be subject to a number of partnership shares with with HMRC rules.
matching shares up to a certain level, subject to continued employment for three years.
Dividends accrue on investment and matching shares and are automatically reinvested.
Notes to the policy table Pension payments under past policy Under arrangements entered into many years ago, the Chief Executive Global Share Plan receives a fixed pension allowance of 15,500 per year.
He is also Free share awards were offered to Executive Directors under the GSP entitled to a lump sum on his retirement as a Director of on the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange in 2013, HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan, calculated by reference to his length as proposed in the IPO Prospectus.
The Chief Executive and Chief of service and his monthly remuneration from that Company at the Financial Officer each received 214 free shares, based on their length time of his retirement, and to which a supplement of 30% may be of service, which will vest after three years in 2016 subject to added at the discretion of HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan.
It is intended that only partnership and estimated value of the benefit of this arrangement accruing during matching shares under the GSP will be offered to Executive Directors 2014 was 9,800 and is funded out of the 21% contribution referred on a regular basis.
It is not intended to grant this pension arrangement to any future Executive Director.
Also under arrangements entered into many years ago, the annual bonus earned by the two Executive Directors is pensionable, capped at 10% of salary.
Pensionable remuneration will be restricted to basic salary in the case of all future Executive Directors.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 37 Performance measurement selection performance measures and targets are reviewed by the Committee Executive Directors participate in the annual bonus plan and the LTIP.
ahead of each grant and must be considered by the Committee to be These plans are designed to incentivise and to provide reward for the challenging but achievable.
achievement of demanding financial and business-related objectives.
Remuneration policy for other employees The aim of the annual bonus plan is to reward key executives over HellermannTytons approach to annual salary reviews is consistent and above fixed pay for the achievement of business objectives.
Key senior managers are eligible to participate in bonus criteria are designed to encourage continuous performance the annual bonus scheme, with targets appropriate to organisational improvement by the Group.
Group financial performance targets level and business area.
Key senior managers are also eligible for relating to the annual bonus plan are set from the Companys annual consideration of LTIP awards to further support alignment with budget, which is reviewed and approved by the Board prior to the start shareholder interests.
LTIP performance conditions are consistent of each financial year.
Adjusted underlying EBITA and sales revenue are for these employees, while award opportunities may vary by used as key performance indicators for the annual bonus plan because organisational level or business area.
they provide clear line-of-sight to the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a holding of Long-term share-based incentives are designed to align the interests of shares equal in value to their base salaries.
They are expected to build Executive Directors with the longer-term interests of the Companys up the required shareholding by the fifth anniversary of their joining shareholders by rewarding them for delivering sustained, increased the Board and are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested shareholder value.
Accordingly, the vesting of LTIP share awards is awards under the LTIP until this guideline is met.
linked to growth in the Companys EPS and TSR.
For the LTIP, Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below summarises the Companys remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Chairman and Non-executive Directors receive Fee increases are applied Fees Not applicable.
a basic fee for their respective roles.
Additional in line with the outcome Provide competitive remuneration to fees are paid for chairing a Board Committee of the biennial review.
attract and retain Directors of the and for the position of Senior Independent necessary calibre.
Fees are typically reviewed every two years with reference to fee levels at a range of relevant UK listed companies comparable to HellermannTyton in size and complexity and take into account the time commitment required and responsibilities assumed.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee and the other Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Companys incentive or share schemes.
HellermannTyton 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Pay scenario charts Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table The charts below provide estimates of the potential future below.
The projected value of the LTIP excludes the impact of share reward opportunity for each of the two current Executive Directors, price growth and dividend accrual.
Actual pay delivered, however, will and the potential split between different elements of remuneration be influenced by these factors.
under three different scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum performance.
Performance scenario chart Performance scenario chart Steve Salmon Tim Jones Chief Executive Chief Financial officer 000 000 1,585 1,600 1,200 1,052 1,400 1,000 40% 1,200 40% 800 1,000 891 577 18% 800 600 26% 18% 27% 21% 541 600 22% 338 400 17% 11% 6% 13% 9% 5% 400 200 83% 50% 28% 87% 51% 28% 200 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pension Annual bonus LTI Fixed Pension Annual bonus LTI Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Includes: Base salary latest known salary effective from 1 April 2015.
Benefits as per the single figure for 2014 disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Pension For Steve Salmon, 21% of salary plus For Steve Salmon, same assumptions as for minimum scenario but also includes lump sum allowance and the estimated pensionable bonus capped at 10% of salary.
value of the benefit of the retirement sum entitlement accruing during 2014.
For Tim Jones, same assumption as for minimum scenario but also includes pensionable bonus capped at 10% of salary.
Note: LTIP opportunity of 150% is based on opportunity of LTIP awards expected to be granted in 2015.
Approach to recruitment remuneration In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any or all of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the individuals role and responsibilities, experience and skills, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current base salary.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in a Group pension plan in line with the policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus described in the policy will apply to new appointees with the Up to 100% of salary per annum.
relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP which will normally Up to 200% of salary per annum.
be on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the policy.
Global Share Plan GSP New appointees will be eligible to participate in the GSP in line with the policy.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 39 In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Executive the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors Director must be offered employment by the Companys successor including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction or by any company in the Group on terms in all respects no less from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that the pay favourable than those applicable immediately prior to such change of arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its control.
If the Executive Director declines this offer, then the Company shareholders.
is entitled to terminate his contract either by giving 12 months' notice or by payment of the remuneration entitlement for the notice period.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer using the The Chairman and all of the current Non-executive Directors were first existing elements of the remuneration policy or may make use of appointed on 22 February 2013, for a term of two years.
In doing so, the Committee will ensure recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board the award will not exceed the fair value of the awards forfeited, using reappointed them on 26 February 2015 for a term of three years, a Black-Scholes or equivalent valuation and, where applicable, taking which is the period commonly adopted by companies.
The into account the toughness of performance conditions attached to the appointment can be terminated by either party on one months notice.
forfeited awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are also subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Executive Directors service contracts When a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal and the Chairmans and the Non-executive Directors letters of promotion, the Remuneration Committee will determine their appointment are available to view at the Companys registered office.
remuneration on a basis that is consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual Exit payment policy and change of control provisions commitments made prior to his or her appointment as an Executive The Companys policy is to limit any payment made to a departing Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
arrangements and to honour any preDirector to contractual established commitments.
As part of this process, the Committee In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director, the will take into consideration the Executive Directors duty to mitigate Committee will follow the policy as set out in the table on page 37. their loss.
Policy on external appointments The table overleaf summarises how the awards under the annual Executive Directors are entitled to accept Non-executive Director bonus, LTIP and GSP are typically treated in different leaver scenarios appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received and on a change of control.
Whilst the Board retains overall discretion provided that the Boards approval is obtained.
on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with the consent of the Service contracts company, injury, ill-health or disability, death, redundancy, if the part Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceases Company which came into effect on 2 April 2013 and which can be to be part of the Group, or any other reason as the Board decides.
terminated by the Executive Director on six months written notice and Final treatment is subject to the Boards discretion.
by the Company on 12 months written notice.
Upon leaving service at the request of the Company other than for gross misconduct, the Executive Director is entitled to receive pre-determined compensation equivalent to 12 months base salary, pension contributions or amounts in lieu thereof and taxable benefits and, in the case of bonus entitlement, the Director will not normally be entitled to any bonus for the year in which he leaves the Company, but will be entitled to any accrued but unpaid entitlement in respect of the previous financial year and any bonus in respect of previous years the payment of which was deferred.
Each of the Executive Directors is additionally entitled to redundancy pay of 1.5 weeks pay for each complete year of service over the age of 40 and one weeks pay for every complete year of service between age 18 to 40 inclusive, plus an ex-gratia payment of 250 for each complete year of service.
In the event of termination by the Company other than for breach of contract, or by the individual due to retirement, a payment of 47,987 will be made to Steve Salmon and a payment of 8,763 will be made to Tim Jones, equivalent to the aggregate amounts by which each of their remuneration has been reduced up until February 2013 under a temporary pay reduction scheme for senior employees.
The scheme was suspended on 31 March 2013 and whilst it may be reinstituted in the future there is no current plan to do so.
HellermannTyton 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Event Timing of vesting award Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Good leaver Paid at the same time as Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied and the award continuing employees.
is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served.
Bad leaver No annual bonus payable.
Change of control Paid immediately on the Eligible for an award to the extent that performance targets are satisfied up to the effective date of change change of control and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year of control.
served to the effective date of change of control.
LTIP Good leaver In the event of the death In the event of the death of a participant during the performance period, the award of a participant, the award would vest in full.
For other good leavers, outstanding awards vest to the extent the would vest immediately.
performance conditions are satisfied and the awards are pro-rated to reflect the length For other good leavers, of the vesting period served unless the Board decides otherwise.
awards vest immediately unless decided otherwise by the Board.
Bad leaver Outstanding awards are Not applicable.
Change of control Vest immediately on the Outstanding awards vest subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions as at the effective date of change of effective date of change of control, and the award is pro-rated for the proportion of control unless the Board the vesting period served to the effective date of change of control unless the Board decides otherwise.
Any bonus from previous years the payment of which was deferred would be paid to a leaver regardless of status on change of control.
Upon exit or change of control, GSP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Annual report on remuneration In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In particular, the This section provides details of how the remuneration policy was Committee considers the range of base pay increases across the Group implemented during the year and how the Committee intends to as a factor in determining the base salary increases for Executive apply the policy in 2015.
Further, the Committee regularly reviews the remuneration The following parts of this section are audited: the single total figure structure and pay proposals for senior managers, and approves the of remuneration for Directors, including annual bonus for the financial structure and targets for their bonus plans.
It also monitors any major year ended 31 December 2014: LTIP awards made during the year: changes in employee benefit structures.
Directors pension arrangements: and Directors shareholdings and The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the share interests.
effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy and framework although, as members of the Board, the Committee Remuneration Committee receives updates from the Executive Directors on their discussions Membership and consultations with employees.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee was chaired by David Lindsell and its other members were David Newlands, Tim Hancock Consideration of shareholder views and John Biles.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the The Committee welcomes shareholder feedback on any issue related Committee.
The Chief Executive attended Committee meetings as to Directors remuneration and will take into account all feedback appropriate to provide advice on matters such as senior management received in determining future remuneration policy.
No Director was present when his own remuneration was being discussed.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 41 Meetings Committee evaluation The Committee met four times during 2014 and has had two The Board conducted an internal review of Committee effectiveness meetings to date in 2015. during the year and concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and carried out all of its Committee activity and key decisions in 2014 responsibilities effectively.
Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2014 included: Independent advice During the year, the Committee continued to engage Kepler as its principal independent adviser.
The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not Matters considered at Committee meetings have any connections with HellermannTyton that may impair 1 approved annual bonus awards for 2013 their independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the February to Executive Directors and senior managers Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
During the agreed the terms of the bonus plan, including performance measures, for 2014 year, Kepler provided advice on market and best practice for executive remuneration.
No other services were provided by Kepler to the reviewed senior management salaries, Group.
The fees paid to Kepler for work carried out in 2014 for the including Executive Directors Remuneration Committee were 36,725 based on time and materials.
considered LTIP awards to be made in 2014 to the Executive Directors and certain Summary of shareholder voting senior managers confirmed by the Board The table below shows the voting outcome for the Companys in May remuneration policy and remuneration report at the AGM held on considered and approved the 2013 30 April 2014.
Directors remuneration report For % Against % Withheld July approved LTIP awards to certain senior managers Approval of remuneration reviewed market trends and developments policy 149,700,069 95.43 7,170,979 4.57 0 in executive remuneration Approval of reviewed the Committees terms remuneration of reference report 153,940,279 98.16 2,880,769 1.84 50,000 December reviewed forecasts of senior managers bonuses for 2014 reviewed remuneration policy and arrangements in the light of market trends, and confirmed that they remained appropriate reviewed and approved the Committees rolling annual agenda reviewed the draft Directors remuneration report for 2014 1.
The Committee met twice in February.
The reviews of market trends and developments in executive remuneration and of the continued appropriateness of the Companys remuneration policy and arrangements were carried out with the assistance of the Companys independent remuneration adviser, Kepler Associates Kepler.
HellermannTyton 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Single total figure of remuneration The table below sets out information on the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Steve Salmons salary for 2013 in the table above includes 4,800 that has been deferred under a pay reduction scheme see Service contracts on page 39 2.
The 2013 amounts include the remuneration paid to the two Executive Directors by the previous holding company of the Group, HellermannTyton Alpha S.. r. l, for the period from 1 January 2013 to the date of the Companys listing on 2 April 2013.
Taxable value of benefits received in the year by Executives includes private health insurance, life assurance, income protection scheme and company car or car allowance.
The first LTIP awards were granted in 2013 and therefore no LTIP awards vested in 2013 or 2014.
Each Executive Director was awarded 214 free shares on 2 April 2013 valued at 417 based on the share price of 1.95 at date of grant.
The table below sets out information on the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Company and Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited Doughty Hanson, Doughty Hanson was entitled to nominate one Non-executive Director of the Company at any time for so long as it held at least 10% of the Companys shares.
Alex Moss was the person nominated by Doughty Hanson to be appointed as Non-executive Director upon the Companys incorporation.
He resigned on 21 March 2014 when Doughty Hanson sold its remaining shareholding in the Company.
He received no remuneration during his term of appointment.
Annual bonus awarded for performance in 2014 The maximum annual bonus potential for the Executive Directors in 2014 was 100% of base salary, and bonus for on-target performance was 45% of base salary.
For any bonus to be earned a threshold performance of 90% of the targets for both Group adjusted underlying EBITA and Group external sales was required to be achieved in the case of Steve Salmon and 85% in the case of Tim Jones, with additional bonus being earned pro-rata to performance above the threshold level in respect of those measures.
The other measure, return on sales, is a performance hurdle rather than a threshold such that the full allocated bonus percentage is awarded if the target or condition is achieved and no bonus is awarded if the target or condition is not achieved.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 43 The table below sets out the performance measures, their relative weightings and achievements against specific targets for 2014.
Steve Salmon Bonus % of current Bonus % of current salary at actual Measure TargetThreshold salary at target Actual performance performance 1 2 5 Group adjusted underlying EBITA 86.858 million 90% of target 35% 104.39% of target 52.56% 3 5 Group external sales 566.94 million 90% of target 5% 107.13% of target 8.56% 4 Return on Sales 15.32%Budget 5% Lower than budget 0% 1.
Group adjusted underlying EBITA for bonus purposes is underlying EBITA as shown on page 17, reduced by the amount by which actual one-off costs exceeded budgeted one-off costs.
Target is the budgeted amount net of budgeted one-off costs.
Bonus of 3.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved up to target and 4% of salary for each 1% above target achieved.
0.5% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
Bonus of 5% of salary is earned if the level of return on sales exceeds budget and no bonus is earned if return on sales is below budget.
Return for this purpose is underlying EBITA as shown on page 17.
For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency amounts in the Group income statement.
Tim Jones Bonus % of current Bonus % of current salary at actual 3 Measure TargetThreshold salary at target Actual performance performance 1 2 5 Group adjusted underlying EBITA 86.858 million 85% of target 35% 104.39% of target 45.23% 3 5 Group external sales 566.94 million 85% of target 5% 107.13% of target 7.38% 4 Return on sales 15.32%Budget 5% Lower than budget 0% 1.
Bonus of 2.33% of salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
0.33% of base salary is payable for each 1% above threshold achieved.
For the purpose of comparing actual performance with target, target amounts are re-translated at the same actual average exchange rates as are used to measure actual foreign currency amounts in the Group income statement.
The Committee therefore awarded a total bonus of 61.12% of salary to Steve Salmon equal to 246,817 and 52.61% of salary to Tim Jones equal to 145,611.
The bonus was paid in full with no deferral.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in 2014 Awards to the Executive Directors were made on 1 May 2014 of 150% of salary.
Vesting of LTIP awards is based 50% on annualised growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS and 50% on the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts measured over a three-year period.
For EPS-based awards the performance period covers the 20142016 financial years and for TSR-based awards the performance period started on 1 May 2014.
The performance targets are as follows: TSR rank compared to FTSE 250 EPS growth excluding investment trusts Percentage of award vesting Less than 7% per annum Below median Nil 7% per annum Median 25% 12% per annum Upper quartile 100% Between 7% and 12% per annum Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis The following table shows the LTIP awards that were made to the Executive Directors on 1 May 2014 based on the share price at that date of 3.20.
Number Face value Face value Director of shares % of salary Vesting date Steve Salmon 189,305 605,776 150% 1 May 2017 Tim Jones 129,727 415,126 150% 1 May 2017 HellermannTyton 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Directors pension arrangements The Company has put in place pension arrangements for its Executive Directors as outlined in the policy table on pages 35 and 36.
The Company does not have a normal retirement age for employees.
During 2014, Steve Salmon received the following pension benefits, which are included in the single figure disclosed on page 42: The estimated value accruing during 2014, amounting to 9,800, of the benefit of his retirement lump sum entitlement as a Director of HellermannTyton Co. Ltd Japan.
Had Steve Salmon retired on 31 December 2014 the retirement lump sum including a discretionary uplift of 30% would have amounted to approximately 122,000: a fixed pension allowance of 15,500: and Payments of 97,525 in lieu of pension, of which 8,274 arises from the pensionable element of his bonus.
During 2014, contributions of 48,330 were made to the Companys defined contribution scheme on behalf of Tim Jones, of which 4,320 arises from the pensionable element of his bonus.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The table below summarises the Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company, including those held under outstanding LTIP and GSP awards, as at 31 December 2014.
All the shares owned outright or vested are beneficial interests.
Executive Directors are required to build up and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries by the fifth anniversary of their joining the Board and they are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under the LTIP until this guideline is met.
The shareholdings of the current Executive Directors already significantly exceed this requirement.
Unvested and subject Unvested and subject Owned outright to performance to continued Total share Director or vested conditions employment interests Steve Salmon 1,001,042 492,382 461 1,493,885 Tim Jones 297,777 337,419 264 635,460 David Newlands 50,000 N A N A 50,000 Tim Hancock 25,000 N A N A 25,000 John Biles 25,439 N A N A 25,439 David Lindsell 20,000 N A N A 20,000 Between 31 December 2014 and 27 February 2015 Steve Salmon and Tim Jones each purchased an additional 96 partnership shares, which were matched under the terms of the GSP.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 45 Total shareholder return monthly Performance review The graph to the right compares the value of 100 invested in 170 HellermannTyton shares, including reinvested dividends, with the 160 value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index since the listing of 150 the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange in April 140 2013 The FTSE 250 index was selected as a relevant comparator 130 as it includes companies of a similar size and complexity to 120 HellermannTyton and as the Company is a constituent of the index.
110 To be commensurate with Company performance for 2013 in the 100 graph, the single figure of remuneration for the Chief Executive for 90 2013 in the table that follows the graph is his remuneration from 80 2 4 13 2 7 13 1 10 13 31 12 13 1 4 14 1 7 14 30 9 14 31 12 14 the date of listing, 2 April 2013, to 31 December 2013.
HellermannTyton FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts 2014 2013 Chief Executive single figure of remuneration 000 780 622 Annual bonus payout as % of maximum 61.12% 78.7% LTIP vesting as % of maximum opportunity N A N A Change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2013 and 2014, compared with the average percentage change from 2013 to 2014 in the cash-based remuneration of the Groups UK-based employees.
The Committee believes that UK-based employees are the most appropriate comparator employee group for the Executive Directors as both groups are based in the UK and are therefore subject to the same inflationary and currency environment.
Chief All UK-based Executive employees 2014 2013 % % 000 000 change change Salary 401 389 3.1% 2.5% Taxable benefits 34 33 3.0% 0% Annual variable 247 310 -20.3% 6.9% Total 682 732 -6.8% 7.7% Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Company for 2013 and 2014 and the difference in spend between those years, on a total employee remuneration and b distributions to shareholders.
2014 2013 % m m change Total employee remuneration 185.9 166.6 11.6% 1 2 Dividends interim dividend paid 5.8 2.8 114% final dividend proposed 12.1 11.3 7.6% 1.
As the Company was incorporated in February 2013 and therefore paid only one, interim dividend, during 2013, the dividends for 2014 and 2013 in the table above are the interim dividend and proposed final dividend in respect of the relevant year rather than the dividends paid in the year.
The amount of the 2013 interim dividend reflected the fact that the Companys shares were not listed until April 2013.
HellermannTyton 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Statement of implementation of policy for the financial year External appointments ending 31 December 2015 Tim Jones is a Non-executive Director of Corporate Legal Solutions Limited.
He did not receive any fees in respect of this directorship 2015 Executive Director base salaries in 2014.
The Committee has reviewed the Executive Directors base salaries, taking account of the factors set out in the policy table on page 34, Payments for loss of office and considers it appropriate to increase them by 2.5%, to 413,946 in There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
the case of Steve Salmon and 283,669 in the case of Tim Jones, with effect from 1 April 2015.
This level of increase is similar to the average Payments to past Directors salary increase awarded to the Groups UK employees.
No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
For 2015, taxable benefits and pension will be in line with the policy set out in the policy report.
Dilution The rules of each share plan specify a dilution limit principally an 2015 annual bonus measures and weightings aggregate limit of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company in As set out in the policy table on page 35, the maximum annual any ten-year period for all share plans together and the Committee bonus opportunity for both Executive Directors for 2015 will be 100% reviews the position before any proposed grant to ensure that this limit of salary.
In addition, in any ten-year period not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time may be In line with the stated policy, the annual bonus will be based on Group issued or transferred from treasury pursuant to the LTIP and any other operational and financial performance targets.
For 2015, the measures plan which is operated on a discretionary basis.
for the Executive Directors are: Shares committed to be issued as at 31 December 2014: adjusted underlying EBITA: % of Dilution external sales: and issued limit % of Number share number dilution return on sales.
of shares capital of shares limit used The Committee considers that the weightings and performance LTIP awards 5,878,383 2.73% 10,769,905 54.58% targets for 2015 are commercially sensitive and they are therefore not LTIP awards plus GSP disclosed.
They are expected to be disclosed in the 2015 Directors matching shares 6,238,307 2.90% 21,539,811 28.96% remuneration report to the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Committee intends to grant LTIP awards in 2015 of 150% of base David Lindsell salary to Executive Directors which will vest in line with the policy.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Global Share Plan GSP awards 27 February 2015 Steve Salmon has participated in the partnership and matching element of the GSP since it was introduced in December 2013 and Tim Jones has participated in the partnership and matching scheme since December 2014.
For the period from December 2014 to December 2015, each Executive Director will be entitled to purchase up to 1,800 worth of shares through the GSP and, if he holds these shares for three years, the Company will match the first 600 of this investment on a one-for-one basis.
2015 fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors Following a review by the Board, it was decided to keep the Nonexecutive Directors base fees at the same level and increase the additional fee paid for chairing a Committee or acting as the Senior Independent Director to 7,500 with effect from 22 February 2015.
In the case of the Chairman, the Committee has reviewed his fees and considers it appropriate to increase them to 141,750 with effect from 22 February 2015.
In both cases, the level of increases took into account the factors set out in the policy table on page 37 and the benchmarking of the Chairmans and Non-executive Directors remuneration packages against a range of relevant UK listed companies comparable to HellermannTyton in size and complexity.
