Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder During the year, we have made steady progress across our remuneration and human resources practices.
I am delighted to welcome Dr Pamela Kirby to the Committee, whobrings extensive experience of human resources and remuneration issues.
Our remuneration policy has remained unchanged and we have more closely aligned the comparator group characteristics with those of Hikma.
In respect of executive remuneration, there have been no departures from normal policy or use of special discretion during the year.
We realise that one of the most significant issues for shareholders this year will be the rise in the salary of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
I would like to assure you that it was not a decision that we took lightly and only after we had consulted our major shareholders and stakeholders.
The increase reflects the outstanding business and share price performance REMUNERATION REPORT and the need for continuity to deliver our medium-term strategy, and ensures that his salary iscompetitive with our peer position in the FTSE and pharmaceutical industry.
Further details 90 Letter from the Chairman are provided in this report.
91 Highlights of 2014 The Committee was delighted to be nominated for a third year for the Building Public 91 Membership and Attendance Trust Award for the best remuneration disclosure in the FTSE 250.
We aim to be entirely 92 Remuneration and transparent in our remuneration practices and provide shareholders and stakeholders with Performance Summary the information they need to make informed decisions about our Company.
We have, again, 94 Directors Remuneration sought to develop our disclosure further this year and hope that you find this useful.
Policy Summary One of the matters on which the Committee is most pleased to report is that our 95 Remuneration Policy for executives directly below Board level have built up shareholdings averaging 1,289% of salary.
Executive Directors We believe that the best alignment of interests is achieved by investment at a meaningful level 96 Policy Implementation 2015 and aredelighted that our executives demonstrate such a clear commitment to the Company.
101 Annual Report on Remuneration As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
I have always 109 Terms of Appointment and Service been available to shareholders to raise matters directly and I remain open to discussion withshareholders should there be any matters that they wish to raise directly.
Michael Ashton, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 90
