Home Retail Group 44 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report As described above, this is a reduction from previous years, from 150%, but, combined with the revised approach to targeting, continues to provide a meaningful incentive.
To further align the interests of executive directors with our shareholders, the committee has also introduced an element of deferral under the annual bonus which sees 25% of any bonus earned deferred into shares for three years.
Performance targets for FY15 will continue to be set by reference to the Groups annual budget and are described in the annual report on remuneration on pages 53 to 59.
For long-term incentives, the value of performance shares awarded Cath Keers under the Performance Share Plan PSP or the Plan going forward will Chair Remuneration Committee be 200% of base salary, again a reduction from the current level of 250%, that we believe provides an incentive to the executive directors Dear fellow shareholders, I am pleased to present the remuneration that is aligned with shareholder interests.
To re ect the importance of report for the year ended 1 March 2014. cash to the Group, we are introducing a third performance metric The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the cumulative adjusted cash ow.
It will generate 30% of long-term remuneration offered to our executive directors provides incentive to incentive opportunity alongside the current metrics of earnings per share retain and motivate them to deliver strong business performance EPS growth and relative total shareholder return TSR, which will aligned with shareholder interests.
provide 30% and 40% of the maximum opportunity respectively.
This year, the committee dealt with a number of key issues, Together, these measures support our strategy of maximising growth including a review of policy for the executive directors for FY15 and and delivering our Group strategy.
Performance targets for awards beyond: dealing with the remuneration arrangements around the made in FY15 are described in the annual report on remuneration on change in Chief Executive: and appointing new advisors.
More detail is pages 53 to 59. provided below and in the policy and annual reports that follow.
In In addition, shareholding guidelines have been updated to include addition, we have continued to build on the structure of last years only unencumbered shares.
This is in line with best practice and further remuneration report and have fully adopted the new reporting strengthens alignment of our executive directors with shareholders.
principles from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, Proportionate changes have also been made to the maximum which were passed into law from October 2013.
The format of this incentives available to the most senior executives below Board level.
report is, therefore, a policy report detailing remuneration policy, and Our new policy is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the an annual report, which details implementation of the policy during AGM, and, if approved, will become effective from 2 July 2014. the financial year.
Chief Executive transition Link to strategy Terry Duddy stepped down as Chief Executive on 14 March 2014 The strategy for the Group is set out in the strategic report on pages 4 and has been succeeded by John Walden, formerly managing director to 31 and is focused on creating long-term value for our shareholders of Argos.
We worked closely with the Nomination Committee during by delivering sustainable growth in our retail brands through the the appointment process and the committee is satis ed that the continuation of the Argos Transformation plan and the Homebase appointment package for John Walden in his new role is fully aligned Renewal plan.
The committee takes a strategic approach to with shareholder interests.
Further details are provided in the annual determining remuneration policy to ensure alignment with the report on remuneration on pages 53 to 59. strategic plan and the interests of our shareholders through the design Review of advisors and delivery of meaningful and tailored incentives with stretching During the year we carried out a full tender process to review our performance targets for our executive team.
A number of prospective advisors were considered The links to strategy that support speci c elements of against a set of criteria agreed by the committee at the start of the remuneration are set out in the policy report on pages 45 to 52. review.
Following a full review, the committee appointed Deloitte LLP, Review of policy an independent rm of remuneration consultants and a founding This year we have reviewed our remuneration policy for executive member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, as advisors from directors and have made a number of changes which are described in September 2013. more detail below and in the remuneration report.
The key outcome of this review is a material reduction in the maximum long-term and short-term incentive levels for our executive directors, accompanied by a revised approach to targeting.
The revised structure and levels continue to provide a meaningful incentive for executive directors which is aligned with shareholder interests.
Under the new policy, the maximum opportunity for executive directors under the annual bonus scheme will be 130% of base salary.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 45 Policy report non-audited Remuneration outcomes in FY14 At the end of FY14, the committee reviewed performance against set The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the operation of the targets for both benchmark PBT and adjusted cash ow to determine remuneration of executive directors during the year and the policy table annual bonus performance.
The committee used its discretion when on pages 46 to 49 re ects proposed policy going forward.
If approved, the nalising the bonus award against benchmark PBT, recognising that policy will be effective from the date of the 2014 Annual General Meeting provision has been made against potential future PPI misselling claims.
and it is intended to apply for three years unless a revised policy is approved Further details are provided on page 54.
As such, bonus payouts were by shareholders before this date.
scaled back to 28% of maximum opportunity for benchmark PBT.
Group policy on the remuneration of executive directors, as described in Performance achieved was 100% of opportunity for adjusted cash ow.
the table on pages 46 to 49, is underpinned by the following principles: This resulted in a total bonus payout for executive directors of 96% of base salary against the maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary.
Remuneration arrangements support the attraction and retention PSP awards granted in 2011 with three-year performance targets of senior executives with the necessary skills and capability to deliver based on relative TSR and EPS did not meet the threshold level of key strategic priorities for the Group without paying any more than performance required and therefore lapsed in full.
For the third year in a row, there will be no increases to base salaries The interests of shareholders and senior executives should be aligned for executive directors in April 2014.
The base salary agreed for the new through the use of performance metrics that support the creation of Chief Executive on appointment is positioned in line with the market shareholder value by providing a strong link to the business strategy but signi cantly below that of the previous Chief Executive.
and financial performance of the Group.
Engagement Total reward packages will be aligned with the relevant market During the year I have met with a number of major shareholders and I am comparable UK listed retailers and companies of a similar size and grateful for the support and input I received, especially in connection complexity to the Group but will be affordable in the context of with our proposed incentive arrangements but also on wider executive overall business performance.
remuneration and linkage to shareholder interests.
The levels of short-term and long-term variable remuneration and I hope that shareholders will be supportive of both the binding the mix of equity and cash are set to provide stretching performance resolution on the policy report and the advisory resolution on the hurdles and incentives without encouraging unnecessary risk-taking.
I will be available at the AGM to Individual executive contribution to delivering sustained, long-term answer any questions you may have.
business performance will be recognised and rewarded.
Cath Keers Executive directors will be encouraged to acquire and retain Group Chair Remuneration Committee shares through both the PSP and all-employee plans to further support alignment with shareholders.
The same principles apply for the remuneration decisions for the Operating Board comprising senior executives, including the executive directors and other senior colleagues across the Group where relevant.
Directors remuneration report for the year ended The committee engages pro-actively with the Groups major shareholders 1 March 2014 on remuneration matters.
As set out in her introductory letter, the The directors remuneration report has been prepared in committee chair consulted with major shareholders in early 2014 on accordance with the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules and the proposed changes to the long-term and short-term incentive Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and arrangements and other executive remuneration matters.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
As last year, and in line with the new reporting regulations, this report is split into two sections: The policy report pages 45 to 52, which is intended to last three years and be effective from 2 July 2014.
This section of the report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The annual report on remuneration pages 53 to 59, which provides details on how directors were paid in FY14 and how we intend to implement the remuneration policy in FY15.
This section of the report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Home Retail Group 46 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table executive directors Base salary STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES To attract and reward executives of a suitable calibre to deliver the Group strategy.
OPERATION Contractual fixed-cash amount paid monthly Generally reviewed on an annual basis with any salary changes typically effective in March When reviewing salaries, account is taken of the following: Benchmark data for other comparable UK listed retailers and companies of a similar size and complexity to Home Retail Group Movements in the employment market The general economic environment Individual performance Increases awarded to other colleagues in the Group Whilst there is no set maximum, the committee would expect any increases to be broadly in line with increases awarded MAXIMUM to other colleagues in the broad-banded population which covers a range of roles, both management and nonmanagement across the Group The committee retains the discretion to make increases above this level in certain circumstances, for example, but not limited to: an increase in the individuals scope of responsibilities in the case of a new executive director who may be initially positioned on a lower initial salary whilst they gain experience in the role Details of the base salaries for the executive directors for FY15 are provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 55 PERFORMANCE METRICS None although performance of the individual is taken into account when setting and reviewing base salary levels.
Short-term incentive annual bonus STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES To incentivise and recognise the delivery of the Groups strategic annual goals.
OPERATION Targets are set at the beginning of each year Performance is determined by the committee after the year end, based on assessment against targets measured over one financial year The committee retains the discretion to scale back payment of any bonus after assessing the formulaic outcome against targets, should it consider it appropriate to do so 75% of any annual bonus payment is paid in cash, with the remaining 25% deferred into share awards The committee may, at its discretion, claw-back bonus awards in the event of material misstatement, an error in the calculation of the bonus or misconduct The committee will set the deferral period applicable to the deferred bonus awards, which will normally be three years Deferred share awards are subject to malus during the deferral period.
The committee retains discretion to lapse unvested deferred awards in the event of material misstatement, error or misconduct Deferred share awards will normally be delivered to participants after the normal vesting date, subject to the underlying financial performance of the Group and any other performance conditions that may apply Awards may incorporate the right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of cash or shares during the vesting period MAXIMUM Maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors is 130% of base salary with up to 20% of maximum bonus opportunity payable for meeting threshold performance.
Performance measures for the annual bonus are normally based on annual financial performance measures, such as PERFORMANCE METRICS profit and adjusted cash flow.
The committee may decide to include other, non-financial, key strategic targets in future years to reflect alignment with business strategy and shareholder interests, subject to at least 50% of measures being financial in nature For FY15, targets will be based on benchmark PBT and adjusted cash flow and are equally weighted The committee will review the targets and weighting each year and reserves the right to change measures and weightings in future years to reflect alignment with shareholder interests and business strategy Whilst the deferred bonus awards are not subject to any further performance conditions, awards will vest subject to the satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group up until the date of vesting The approach to targets that will apply for FY15 is provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 55 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 47 Long-term incentive PSP STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term returns for shareholders and support retention.
OPERATION Awards are normally granted annually and vest at the end of a three-year performance period, subject to assessment of the achievement of performance conditions by the committee, unless the committee determines otherwise Award levels are determined based on market practice amongst other retailers and companies of a similar size and complexity as the Group with a face value set by reference to multiples of base salary Performance measures are selected by the committee to incentivise the delivery of value to shareholders over the longer term through the achievement of key strategic measures A malus rule applies to executive directors for awards granted since FY13 giving the committee the discretion to scale back unvested awards in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct Awards may include the right to receive in cash or shares the value of dividends payable on award shares that vest over the vesting period The usual maximum value of shares awarded to executive directors in respect of a financial year will be 200% of base MAXIMUM salary.
25% of the award ie up to 50% of base salary vests for achieving threshold performance The PSP rules allow awards in shares in respect of a financial year of up to a maximum of 300% of base salary.
However, the committee does not intend to make awards above the usual maximum of 200%, other than in exceptional circumstances for example, to facilitate the buyout of awards forfeited by a new recruit on cessation of their previous employment PERFORMANCE METRICS Performance is assessed against three measures weighted as follows: 40% relative TSR performance against a group of sector peers 30% EPS growth 30% cumulative adjusted cash flow The committee reserves the right to alter the measures and weightings year-on-year if it deems it appropriate, for example to focus executives on one measure to align better with the Groups strategy and shareholder interests The approach to the targets that will apply for the FY15 awards are provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 55 The committee may change a performance condition in accordance with its terms or if any event happens which causes the committee reasonably to consider this is appropriate Approved HMRC addendum to the PSP To support retention by delivering a proportion of the PSP award in a tax-efficient way.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION Provides the opportunity to have an element of any PSP award delivered using an HMRC approved plan Where a gain is made on the HMRC approved options under the PSP, conditional awards to the same value are forfeited to deliver the same gross value in a tax-efficient way MAXIMUM Will not exceed the current tax thresholds permitted by HMRC currently 30,000.
PERFORMANCE METRICS Performance of the metrics will be assessed in line with those outlined under the PSP award In addition, the share price at the time of vesting must be greater than the share price at award date for this element of the PSP to trigger All-employee share schemes To support alignment of executives with shareholders.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION Executive directors are entitled to participate in the same all-employee share schemes offered to other Group colleagues The Group currently operates a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme under which participants can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of options over Home Retail Group shares MAXIMUM Participation limits for the SAYE scheme are upto those set by HMRC The committee reviews the structure of the all employee scheme on an annual basis to set the maximum.
However, this will not exceed the limits set by HMRC PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
Home Retail Group 48 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Benefi ts To support the attraction and retention of executives of the calibre required to deliver the Group strategy.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION The benefits provided take into account market practice and may include, but are not limited to, the following: Car benefits, including a driver Private medical insurance and US healthcare for the executive directors family R elocation Life insurance Limited personal travel and home office expenses Subscription to professional bodies The committee retains the discretion to change the benefits provided including providing additional benefits in line with market practice There is no maximum.
The value of benefits will vary year-on-year depending on the cost of providing these benefits MAXIMUM Set at an appropriate market level in the context of the market role individual PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
Retirement benefi ts STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES To support the attraction and retention of executives of the calibre required to deliver the Group strategy.
OPERATION Executive directors are provided with retirement benefits which, at the choice of the executive director, may be delivered in the form of either a cash allowance or as a payment into the Groups Defined Contribution scheme The value of the retirement benefit is the same regardless of the form chosen and executive directors receive no additional benefit contribution if this allowance is delivered as payment into the Defined Contribution scheme The maximum employer contribution in respect of a financial year for any director is 30% of base salary MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
Remuneration policy table legacy plans The following tables set out a summary of any legacy plans under which outstanding awards are currently operating: Home Retail Group non-approved Share Option Plan STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Legacy plan.
Rolled-over market value options were granted over Group shares following the demerger from GUS plc.
The options OPERATION are governed by the rules of the GUS plc executive share option scheme Vested options normally lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant, or if earlier, six months after cessation of employment excluding time where dealing in shares is restricted under the Model Code or twelve months in the case of death MAXIMUM All outstanding options are now exercisable.
Details of outstanding options granted to the current executive directors are set out on page 57 Performance conditions measuring historic GUS plc EPS growth have already been assessed and fully met.
PERFORMANCE METRICS FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 49 Home Retail Group Secured Unapproved Retirement Benefi t Scheme Legacy plan.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION The Finance Director has retained benefits under a Secured Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme which is now closed to future accrual.
This arrangement is designed to replicate the benefits available from the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme for earnings over a certain limit.
No further benefits will accrue under this Scheme Subject to the consent of the independent trustee of the Scheme, the Group may offer members the opportunity to take a cash equivalent transfer offer from the Scheme.
The cash equivalent offer would be calculated using the same factors as those used by the Trustee of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme with the exception of the mortality assumption which would be changed to reflect the assumed mortality of the membership of the Scheme The cash equivalent transfer value would not typically provide any additional or uplifted benefit to the individual.
Group National Insurance costs relating to individuals accepting a cash equivalent offer may be covered by the Group at the discretion of the committee n a legacy plan.
PERFORMANCE METRICS Notes: The performance measures selected for the purposes of the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plan are key performance indicators for the Group.
They support and reward sustainable and long-term shareholder value creation.
Performance targets are set taking into account prior-year performance, annual budgets and longer-term financial plans, strategic imperatives and external factors including analyst forecasts.
The claw-back mechanism under the annual bonus plan will be facilitated through the reduction in value of whichever of the following payments come first: The vesting of any deferred bonus if such arrangements exist linked to the performance year to which the claw-back related: or The next vesting under the PSP at its value when it vests : or The next bonus.
Only after these possibilities have been exhausted would the Group seek to recover a net-of-tax cash payment from the individual.
The elements of remuneration for executive directors apply to a signi cant number of employees within the Group.
Award levels and participation vary depending upon seniority and market factors.
Further details are provided on page 50.
General The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of of ce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Group and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Group.
For these purposes payments includes but is not limited to the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The committee may also make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Illustration of our executive remuneration policy for FY15 The charts below show how the composition of each of the executive directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance achievement: The chart for the Chief Executive is based on the remuneration arrangements for John Walden, who was appointed with effect from 14 March 2014.
The values exclude share price appreciation and dividends.
The assumptions used in the charts, left, are as below continued overleaf.
John Walden Richard Ashton Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 Fixed pay minimum performance Base salary, bene ts and pension total xed pay 3,048 Base salary As effective for FY15 Bene ts For the Finance Director this is the value received for 2,198 43% FY14.
For the new Chief Executive this is the value received for FY14, 1,651 44% but also includes the increased bene ts allowances agreed on his 20% 1,166 28% promotion to Chief Executive 903 26% 21% 28% 614 Pension Based on pension provision of 30% for the Chief Executive 27% 100% 54% 29% and 25% for the Finance Director 28% 100% 52% No bonus pays out Fixed In line with Maximum Fixed In line with Maximum No vesting under the PSP pay pay expectation expectation Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term share awards Home Retail Group 50 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued In line with the Groups expectations Recruitment remuneration arrangements Total xed pay as outlined under minimum performance When determining the remuneration of a new executive director, the 50% of maximum bonus opportunity 65% of base salary for both committees principle is to ensure that the arrangements are in the best of the executive directors interests of both the Group and the shareholders by paying only what is 25% of long-term incentive share awards 50% of base salary for both considered necessary to recruit an individual of the right calibre to deliver of the executive directors the Group strategy.
The committee will consider all relevant factors when determining the Maximum performance arrangements for a new executive director.
This may include, but is not Total xed pay as outlined under minimum performance limited to, the skills experience of the individual, market practice and any 100% of annual bonus opportunity 130% of base salary for both remuneration being forfeited by the individual.
Typically, a new recruit will of the executive directors be brought in on, or be transitioned onto, the same package structure that 100% of long-term incentive share awards 200% of base salary applies to other executive directors as set out in the policy table.
However, for both of the executive directors in exceptional circumstances, the committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions that fall outside the limits and All-colleague remuneration policy structure of the policy if it considers this to be necessary to recruit the The remuneration policy for colleagues across the Group enables us to individual.
This may include, but is not limited to, the provision of additional provide a reward package that supports the recruitment of individuals with bene ts.
Notwithstanding this, the maximum level of variable the skills we need to deliver both service to our customers and the broader remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buy-outs will be strategic priorities of the Group.
within the limits set out in the policy table.
Circa 6,600 colleagues are eligible to participate in annual bonus To facilitate recruitment, the committee may buy-out any arrangements, which are subject to stretching Group or Operating remuneration arrangements forfeited by a new director on leaving their Company targets and their personal performance.
The committee will generally seek to structure any are broadly aligned with those of the executive directors.
buy-out on a like-for-like basis, considering all relevant factors including Management colleagues who have the greatest potential to in uence the form of the awards ie cash or equity, performance conditions Group performance are also invited to participate in the long-term attached to the awards, the likelihood of such conditions being met and incentive arrangements.
Circa 350 colleagues are invited to participate the time frame of the awards.
In structuring the buyout, the committee retains discretion to grant All permanent colleagues in the UK are eligible to participate in the awards under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards, all-employee share schemes.
speci cally to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director without seeking prior shareholder approval.
The value Remuneration policy table non-executive directors of buy-outs is excluded from the maximum variable remuneration on The following sets out a summary of each element of the non-executive recruitment.
However, the committee will determine the value of buy-out directors remuneration packages, the policy for how these are operated arrangements within the principle of not paying more than is necessary and their link to the Group strategy.
to facilitate the recruitment of the preferred candidate.
On the appointment of a new chairman or non-executive director, Fees should be broadly in line with market levels and Element remuneration arrangements will normally be consistent with the policy suf cient to attract and retain high-calibre non-executives.
and set out in this report.
The rationale for any changes to policy will be clearly Fees for each non-executive should be set by reference to strategic explained in the remuneration report following the appointment.
objective Service contracts and letters of appointment Policy and Fees are a combination of cash fees paid monthly and Executive directors service contracts shares, purchased twice each year.
Shares purchased must maximum be retained until retirement from the Board of Directors.
Both Terry Duddy and Richard Ashton were appointed as executive Whilst there is no maximum fee level for individuals, the directors on 5 July 2006.
Terry Duddy had a service contract dated 27 July total fees paid to the non-executive directors will not 1999 and Richard Ashton has a contract dated 1 March 2005.
John Walden exceed the aggregate limit set out in the Groups Articles of was appointed as an executive director on 14 March 2014 following his Association, currently 1.5m.
promotion to the Board as Chief Executive.
John Walden has a contract The fee structure is as follows: dated 15 January 2014.
The chairman fee comprises a single, consolidated fee.
Both of the executive directors may be invited to participate in the The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus Groups incentive arrangements as and when determined by the additional fees for chairmanship of the Audit and committee.
All outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with Remuneration Committees and to the senior the relevant plan rules.
The Group reserves the right to pay additional non-cash Group policy is that service contracts for an executive director may be bene ts if considered appropriate, the value of which terminated with twelve months notice by the Group or six months notice would be within the limit described above.
The Group may make a payment in lieu of notice based Actual fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on on the value of base salary and bene ts including pension during the remuneration for the relevant financial year unexpired period of notice.
This may be paid in instalments.
John Waldens service contract includes a duty to mitigate any payment made in lieu of notice by seeking comparable alternative employment.
As part of his leaving arrangements, Terry Duddy also has a FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 51 duty to mitigate should he nd alternative employment before 2 July 2014. contradiction with the policy set out in this report, or if so, having not Whilst Richard Ashtons contract does not include speci c terms relating to been entered into on a date later than 27 June 2012. mitigation in respect of a payment in lieu of notice, the committee would The committee will apply mitigation where appropriate, for example by expect to require a similar duty to mitigate should any payment in lieu of making payment in lieu of notice in the form of monthly instalments, to notice be agreed at the time of Richard Ashtons departure.
be reduced should the individual secure alternative employment before Copies of the service contracts may be viewed at the Groups the end of the notice period.
The committee will use its discretion as to the treatment of any outstanding share awards at cessation, in accordance with the rules of Non-executive directors letters of appointment each plan.
The policy for leavers is summarised in the table below.
The The non-executive directors, including the chairman, are appointed via normal treatment is as follows: letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for PSP Awards would normally be released at the normal vesting a three-year term and are typically expected to serve up to a maximum of date and pro-rated for time served during the vesting period, and three three-year terms subject to review by the Board every three years.
subject to achievement of any performance conditions that apply.
The appointment of a non-executive director may be terminated with Deferred Bonus Plan Unvested awards under the Deferred Bonus one months notice by either the Group or the individual.
The chairman is Plan will normally be delivered to the individual in full at the normal subject to a notice period of three months.
vesting date, subject to the underlying financial performance of the Copies of the letters of appointment may be viewed at the Groups Group, and any other performance conditions that may apply.
The committee will consider the speci c circumstances of the cessation of Policy on departing directors employment, including the manner of departure and performance to date, The committees approach to determining any payment for loss of of ce with any payments made on an individual case by case.
Discretion to allow should an executive director leave employment will be based on the payment of bonus or vesting of awards would not normally be exercised following principles: where the director has resigned and would never be used where The committee will satisfy any contractual obligations agreed with the employment was terminated for cause.
departing executive director, providing that such obligations are not in The table below sets out the speci c policy in relation to each element of remuneration: Element Policy The policy in relation to base pay and benefits is as described in relation to the executive directors service contracts Base pay and benefits above.
The committee may make a payment under the annual bonus in respect of the financial year of cessation, subject to the Short-term incentive achievement of the performance targets that apply to the bonus.
However, the committee is not under any obligation to annual bonus make such a payment and any such payment will typically take into consideration the manner of departure and individual performance up to the date of cessation.
Discretion would not normally be exercised where the director has resigned and would never be used where employment was terminated for cause.
Long-term incentive PSP PSP awards will typically lapse if the executive director ceases to hold office and employment before they vest.
However, awards may continue in effect if the participant ceases to hold office and employment for any of the following reasons and is therefore considered a good leaver: Ill-health, injury or permanent disability Retirement with the agreement of the Group Sale of the Company or business the director works for out of the Group Redundancy Death Outstanding awards will normally vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the extent the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
However, the committee retains discretion to allow awards to vest at the date of cessation subject to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at this date.
Unless the committee decides otherwise, awards for leavers in these circumstances are pro-rated calculated on a monthly basis to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed on cessation of employment or, in relation to a non-performance related award, the vesting period.
The committee may also apply this treatment if the director leaves for any other reason if exceptional circumstances are deemed to exist or if it terminates a directors employment other than for cause within six months of the change of control of the Group.
If a participant dies, awards vest at the date of death.
Unless the committee determines otherwise, relevant performance conditions do not apply.
Awards will be pro-rated for time, unless the committee determines otherwise.
Home Retail Group 52 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Element Policy Options are exercisable for a limited period from the date of leaving using savings made to the date of exercise.
Sharesave Outstanding awards will vest at the original vesting date subject to the satisfactory underlying financial performance Deferred Bonus Plan of the Group up until the date of vesting.
Deferred shares will normally be released in full at the usual vesting date except in the case of death, injury, disability, ill-health and redundancy when awards may vest wholly or in part on cessation.
To the extent that awards do not vest, they will continue in effect.
Awards will lapse where an individual leaves for reasons of misconduct, malfeasance or any other reason at the committees discretion.
The committee may also at its discretion approve the provision of reasonable outplacement benefits to a departing Other executive.
Corporate events demerger, distribution, special dividend, any variation of capital or any Change of control other corporate event that might affect the current or future value of awards.
In the event of a takeover or if shares are acquired by scheme of Where an individual is transferred overseas and is likely to suffer a tax arrangement, PSP awards would normally vest to the extent that any disadvantage in relation to their award or become restricted in their ability performance conditions, as determined by the committee, have been to hold shares, the committee may, in exceptional circumstances, allow satis ed up to that date.
Such awards would be reduced by reference to awards to vest.
the performance period that has elapsed at the time of the relevant event.
Where the committee considers it appropriate awards may be settled Alternatively, the committee may determine that awards be exchanged in the form of cash.
for awards in the acquiring company similarly, a participant may accept External appointments an offer to exchange awards if one is made by the acquiring company.
Executive directors and members of senior management may be invited In the event of a change of control, Deferred Bonus Plan awards would to become non-executive directors of other companies subject to the normally vest at the date of the change of control unless the committee agreement of the Group.
These appointments provide an opportunity to determines that the underlying financial performance of the Group up gain broader experience outside Home Retail Group and therefore bene t until the event has not been satisfactory.
Unless the committee the Group.
Providing that appointments are not likely to lead to a con ict of determines otherwise, such awards would not be reduced on a time interest, executive directors may accept non-executive appointments and pro-rata basis.
Alternatively, the committee may determine that awards retain the fees received.
be exchanged for awards in the acquiring company similarly, a Individuals are limited to holding one external PLC board appointment, participant may accept an offer to exchange awards if one is made by other than at the discretion of the committee.
Other external the acquiring company.
appointments, such as school governor appointments or appointments Sharesave options will become exercisable for a limited period to the to the boards of charities, are at the discretion of the committee.
extent of savings made to the date of exercise or can be exchanged for shares in the company which acquires control of the Group or a related Employment considerations elsewhere in the Group company.
The committee does not consult with colleagues when formulating the Any cash received for shares held for a director in the Share Incentive remuneration policy for executive directors.
However, it recognises that Plan SIP as a result of the transaction will be paid to the participant and there is a need to understand the wider context of remuneration across securities received will normally continue to be held in the SIP on broadly the Group when setting levels of pay for executive directors.
The committee considers budgeted salary increases for the wider broad-banded colleague group which covers a range of roles, both Other corporate events management and non-management when determining increases for the If other corporate events occur such as a demerger, delisting, distribution executive directors.
Additionally, the committee reviews and approves all other than an ordinary dividend, or any other signi cant corporate event long-term incentive plan LTIP awards and reviews bonus outcomes for a which, in the opinion of the committee, would affect the current or future range of colleagues below executive director level.
value of any awards, the committee may allow PSP awards to vest to the Consideration of shareholder views extent that any performance condition has been satis ed to that date as The committee is committed to engaging in an open dialogue with the determined by the committee and subject to any other conditions the Companys shareholders and will seek views and opinions on signi cant committee may decide to impose.
The committee may also decide to matters relating to the remuneration of the executive directors as time pro-rate such awards.
During the year, the committee chair met with a number The committee may also allow Deferred Bonus Plan awards to vest of investors to discuss the proposed changes to the executive director unless it is determined that the underlying financial performance of the remuneration arrangements and took their views into account when Group up until the corporate event has been unsatisfactory.
Unless the nalising the policy.
committee decides otherwise, such awards would not be time prorated.
Adjustments may be made to the number or kind of shares subject to awards and options and or the exercise price of options if there is a FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 53 Chief Executive transition Annual report on remuneration Terry Duddy stepped down on 14 March 2014 and John Walden This section provides information about the Remuneration Committee, was appointed as Chief Executive on the same date.
His base salary was and decisions made around the transition of Chief Executive.
Details are reviewed on appointment in line with the policy on pages 45 to 52 and then given on how directors were paid in FY14 and how the committee was set at 650,000.
Other elements of his package are in line with the intends to implement the revised remuneration policy in FY15.
Terry Duddy will continue to receive base salary and all bene ts, Committee roles and advisors non-audited including pension supplement, up to the date of the AGM 2 July 2014 The following directors were members of the committee during FY14: in line with contractual obligations.
As part of his leaving arrangements, Cath Keers Chair Ian Durant Terry Duddy will be paid 100 for loss of of ce and will retain a duty to John Coombe Jacqueline fide Rojas mitigate if he secures new employment before the AGM.
Mike Darcey Terry Duddy served for the full year in FY14.
The committee has afforded Terry Duddy good leaver status in recognition of his valuable At the invitation of the committee, Terry Duddy, the Chief Executive until contribution to the strong financial performance of the Group during the 14 March 2014, attended the meetings to give background information on year.
He will therefore receive a full years annual bonus, subject to the remuneration matters.
The committee was also advised by Richard achievement of performance conditions.
Page 54 sets out the details of the Ashton, the Finance Director: Julie Elder, Human Resources Director: and FY14 annual bonus.
All unvested share awards will be pro-rated to the date Kate Woodhouse, Head of Reward and Policy until December 2013. of the AGM 2 July 2014 and, subject to performance conditions, will be The secretary to the committee was Gordon Bentley, Company Secretary.
released on the normal vesting date along with any dividend equivalent Following a tender process Deloitte LLP were appointed as advisors to payments due.
The GUS legacy options will lapse six months after Terry the committee in September 2013.
Following appointment, Deloitte has Duddys leaving date.
Terry Duddy will not be eligible for any future share advised the committee on a number of executive remuneration matters awards made by the Group.
Following committee approval, Terry Duddy including a review of the executive remuneration framework, received the deferred shares relating to the 2013 bonus that he voluntarily developments in market practice and appointment of the new Chief deferred.
These were delivered in full after leaving the business in line with Executive.
Prior to the appointment of Deloitte, New Bridge Street an Aon the terms agreed at the time they were awarded.
Hewitt company, part of Aon plc acted as advisers to the Group and provided advice on performance conditions for the long-term incentive plans, executive remuneration issues and salary benchmarking data.
Total fees for advice provided to the committee during the year under review amounted to 125,199 50,549 New Bridge Street and 74,650 Deloitte.
Both New Bridge Street and Deloitte LLP are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the committee is satis ed that their advice is independent.
The terms of reference of the committee can be found on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
The details below and over the following pages shows the implementation of policy, rstly looking back to FY14 and secondly looking forward to FY15 under our new policy.
Executive directors single total gure of remuneration audited The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for executive directors for FY14 and FY13.
Terry Duddy deferred his entire FY13 bonus into shares, which were transferred to him on departure.
Notes to the singlegure table and remuneration outcomes The value of the SAYE bene t has been calculated as 250 x 20% x 12 This section provides supplementary information in relation to the to re ect the value of the share price discount which applies, based on singlegure table above and remuneration outcomes for the year.
directors saving the maximum amount over the course of the year.
The calculation for Terry Duddy in FY14 has been pro-rated to re ect Bene ts the number of contributions made.
Bene ts include values relating to all employee share schemes, healthcare, The bene ts gure for FY13 has been restated on the same basis as insurance and car bene ts, for example, SAYE, private medical insurance, FY14, so that payments relating to the fide ned bene t closure previously life assurance and company car.
Terry Duddy also had access to a included in the bene ts column are now included in pension.
Home Retail Group 54 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued FY14 annual bonus Executive directors remuneration for FY14 During FY14 the executive directors were eligible for an annual bonus of The following section provides information about remuneration up to 150% of salary, payable in cash.
The payment of bonus was subject arrangements for executive directors during the year under review, FY14.
to targets based on two equally weighted measures: benchmark PBT and FY14 base salary adjusted cash ow.
The table below sets out the performance achieved As set out in the singlegure table, the base salary for Terry Duddy, Chief against each metric and corresponding bonus pay out.
Executive was 838,000, and for Richard Ashton, Finance Director was The targets have not been disclosed as they are considered by the 480,000.
Board to be commercially sensitive information and as such could be FY14 annual bonus damaging to the Groups and shareholders interests.
The committee will As described in the notes to the singlegure table above, the executive give consideration to disclosing targets if they are deemed to be no longer directors were eligible for annual bonus awards of 150% of salary, subject commercially sensitive.
to benchmark PBT and adjusted cash ow targets.
Adjusted Benchmark PBT cash ow Total FY14 PSP award During FY14 the executive directors were granted PSP awards equivalent % weighting 50% 50% 100% to 250% of base salary.
The awards were based on relative TSR and benchmark EPS performance conditions, compound annual growth rate % maximum bonus opportunity 75% 75% 150% CAGR as set out below, and will vest on a straight-line basis between the FY14 performance achieved 28% 100% 64% relevant points: % of salary 21% 75% 96% 1 2 Benchmark EPS Relative TSR 000 value Terry Duddy, % of award 60% 40% Chief Executive 176 628 804 Threshold 25% of element 15% CAGR 50th percentile 000 value Richard Ashton, Finance Director 101 360 461 Maximum 100% of element 35% CAGR 90th percentile The committee has exercised discretion when determining the bonus Notes: 1.
Benchmark EPS is one of our key profit measures that is included under payouts for FY14.
Whilst the Group has delivered strong financial results, Group key performance indicators at the front of this annual report.
This with year-on-year benchmark PBT growth of 27% and continuing strong measure reflects the profitability of the Group and therefore helps to align cash performance, the committee is mindful that provision has been made awards with growth in this key financial metric.
For the FY14 awards, for potential future PPI misselling claims relating to historic policies.
As growth rates are measured over the three financial years FY14, FY15 and such, payments relating to the benchmark PBT element of the bonus have FY16 on a point-to-point basis.
For FY14 awards, the committee set exceptionally stretching Benchmark been scaled back to 28% of the maximum for that element.
EPS growth targets to reflect the superior maximum award opportunity.
FY12 PSP awards performance tested in FY14 For these awards, threshold vesting 25% of the element requires CAGR of 15%, with full vesting 100% of the element requiring CAGR of 35%.
Performance conditions for executive directors for the FY12 PSP award Vesting occurs on a straight-line performance basis between these two were based 40% on relative TSR and 60% on benchmark EPS targets.
Below 15% CAGR no award will vest.
These were tested at the end of the performance period, 1 March 2014, 2.
Relative TSR measures the growth in share price in a hypothetical and, as threshold performance was not achieved for either condition, shareholding assuming any dividends received are reinvested for Home Retail Group compared to that of selected retail comparators across the these awards lapsed in full.
This provides a direct link between the remuneration Total pension entitlements audited of executive directors and the value generated for shareholders.
For the awards made in FY14, 25% of the award vests for TSR performance Pension entitlements for Terry Duddy were provided through a at median of the comparator group, with full vesting for TSR performance non-contributory, unapproved, unfunded retirement bene t scheme to at the 90th percentile.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line performance basis 30 April 2013.
For Richard Ashton, they were provided through the Groups between these two points.
Below median performance no award will vest.
main fide ned bene t pension scheme until 31 January 2013, in respect of For these awards, TSR will be measured over the period of three earnings below 137,400, and through a non-contributory unapproved consecutive financial years of the Group commencing 3 March 2013. unfunded retirement bene t scheme for earnings above 137,400 until 30 April 2013.
From 1 February 2013 to 30 April 2013, Richard Ashton received a cash allowance in respect of his earnings below 137,400.
From 1 May 2013, pension provision for both executive directors was provided in the form of an annual cash allowance.
As per the terms of the members scheme offer letters, all relevant colleagues were offered the opportunity to exchange deferred pension for a cash alternative during the year.
A number of scheme members, including Terry Duddy, elected to receive the cash alternative.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 55 FY15 base salary The comparator group for FY14 is as follows: Budgeted salary increases for the wider employee group are taken into consideration when determining increases for the executive directors.
The Carphone Warehouse J Sainsbury Next salaries for the outgoing Chief Executive and incumbent Finance Director Debenhams King sher Tesco have been frozen for FY15 compared to a budgeted increase for the wider employee group of circa 2%.
Dixons Retail Marks & Spencer Topps Tiles The base salary of the new Chief Executive has been set in line with our stated policy, and at a level which re ects market practice in companies Dunelm Morrisons Travis Perkins of a similar size and complexity, and new promotion to the role.
Halfords Mothercare WH Smith FY15 FY14 Increase base salary base salary % In the event of material changes to companies within the comparator Terry Duddy 838,000 838,000 0.0% group, the committee will use its discretion to determine the appropriate method of assessment.
John Walden 650,000 n a n a In accordance with the rules of the plan, the committee may determine to waive or change any performance condition in accordance with its terms Richard Ashton 480,000 480,000 0.0% or if any signi cant corporate event occurs which causes the committee to reasonably consider it appropriate to do so.
Paid until the date of AGM, or an earlier date if Terry Duddy secures alternative employment prior to that date.
The committee has the discretion to review any additional adjustments From date of appointment.
If the committee uses its discretion in relation to any performance Pension entitlements targets, details will be provided of how the discretion was exercised and For FY15, the executive directors will continue to receive allowances in line how the resulting level of award was determined in the annual report on with policy.
At the choice of the executive director, this may be delivered in remuneration following the relevant year end.
the form of either a cash allowance or as a payment into the Groups fide ned Contribution scheme.
The allowances for the new Chief Executive Executive directors implementation of our revised remuneration and Finance Director are 30% of base salary and 25% of base salary policy for FY15 non-audited respectively.
Review of arrangements As per the terms agreed relating to his departure, Terry Duddy continues This year, in the context of the change in Chief Executive and introduction to receive a cash allowance of 30% of base salary to the AGM, 2 July 2014, of the binding vote on remuneration policy, the committee has undertaken or earlier if alternative employment is secured prior to that date.
a full review of remuneration arrangements.
We have sought to develop a new forward-looking policy that provides appropriate levels of FY15 annual bonus remuneration including meaningful, relevant incentives to support the Following the committees review of remuneration, the maximum annual strategic ambitions of the Group and provide better alignment with bonus opportunity for executive directors in FY15 has been reduced to shareholders.
As a result of this review, the following changes have 130% from 150% in previous years.
Additionally, 25% of any bonus will be been made: deferred into shares for three years.
Both these changes are re ected in the policy report on pages 45 to 52.
Reduction in the maximum opportunity under both the annual bonus Given the strategy of the Group for FY15, the committee feels it and LTIP, whilst still retaining a meaningful incentive.
appropriate to continue to structure bonuses with equally weighted Introduction of a new compulsory deferral policy so that 25% of earned benchmark PBT and adjusted cash ow targets as set out below: annual bonus is deferred.
Changes to the performance metrics under the LTIP, including a new measure relating to cumulative adjusted cash ow.
Metrics and weighting Benchmark PBT Adjusted cash ow Amendment to the shares which are counted towards shareholding Threshold to maximum as a range 15m below to guidelines so that only unencumbered shares count.
around budget 95% to 120% 50m above Positioning the base salary and total remuneration of our new Chief Executive signi cantly below that of the previous Chief Executive.
Chief Executive, John Walden 50% 50% Finance Director, Richard Ashton 50% 50% Further information on these changes is provided as follows.
Due to the competitive nature of the retail sector, the targets have not been disclosed as it is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information and as such could be damaging to the Groups and shareholders interests.
The committee will give consideration to disclosing targets if they are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive.
Terry Duddy will receive no bonus in respect of time served during FY15.
Home Retail Group 56 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Cumulative adjusted cash ow FY15 awards under the PSP Cumulative adjusted cash ow has been introduced as a measure for For FY15, awards under the PSP for the executive directors will be reduced the FY15 awards to re ect the importance of cash generation in delivering to 200% of base salary from 250% in previous years.
This change, our strategic plan.
The successful management of cash generation is alongside those to annual bonus, results in a signi cant reduction to overall important in supporting the Groups investment plans and future remuneration opportunity, whilst retaining a meaningful incentive for the earnings growth.
Cumulative adjusted cash ow is fide ned in a consistent manner to In conjunction with this reduction in maximum opportunity, the that utilised within the annual bonus scheme and is calculated as the committee has also reviewed the performance targets applied to the PSP Groups reported cash ow excluding capital expenditure, shares issued awards, to ensure they are set at a level to provide meaningful incentive, or purchased including those acquired to ful l incentive scheme share whilst continuing to support the delivery of the Groups strategic and awards, acquisitions or divestments, dividends paid to shareholders, growth ambitions.
To re ect the continued focus on cash as part of the payments made to reduce the Groups fide ned bene t pension scheme Groups strategy, a new target based on cumulative adjusted cash ow fide cit, increases or decreases in the Groups Financial Services loan book will be introduced in addition to relative TSR and benchmark EPS.
and cash ows in respect of exceptional restructuring items.
The FY15 awards will be subject to the following measures and will vest It is intended that the committee should have the discretion to adjust as set out below, on a straight-line basis between the relevant points: the target, on an exceptional basis only, for material factors that may Cumulative otherwise distort performance in either direction to allow performance to Relative TSR Benchmark EPS adjusted cash ow be assessed against targets that have been set on a consistent basis.
Any % of award 40% 30% 30% use of discretion to adjust performance targets or the assessment of performance will be disclosed to shareholders in the annual report on Threshold 25% of 50th remuneration following the relevant year end.
element percentile 7% CAGR 835m For FY15 awards, cumulative adjusted cash ow is measured over the three financial years FY15, FY16 and FY17.
Threshold vesting 25% of the Maximum 100% of 75th element will require cumulative adjusted cash ow of 835m, with full element percentile 20% CAGR 1,030m vesting 100% of the element requiring cumulative adjusted cash ow of 1,030m.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line performance basis between Further details of these measures are provided below.
Non-executive directors single total gure of remuneration Relative TSR audited As for FY14, relative TSR measures the growth in share price in a As outlined in the policy table on page 50, non-executive director hypothetical shareholding assuming any dividends received are fees should broadly be in line with market levels, set to re ect the reinvested for Home Retail Group compared to that of selected retail responsibilities undertaken and suf cient to attract and retain high-calibre comparators across the three-year performance period.
In 2013, the fees were reviewed and a decision taken to element of the award vests for achieving median performance, with 100% hold the fees at their current level until February 2015. of this element vesting for achieving upper quartile TSR performance The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration versus the comparator group.
for non-executive directors for FY14 and FY13.
Non-executive directors The TSR comparator group for FY15 is unchanged from last year, did not receive any performance-related payments or bene ts during as follows: either year.
Carphone Warehouse J Sainsbury Next Fees Fees 000 FY14 FY13 Debenhams King sher Tesco John Coombe 250 202 Dixons Retail Marks & Spencer Topps Tiles 1 Mike Darcey 87 96 Dunelm Morrisons Travis Perkins 100 92 Ian Durant Halfords Mothercare WH Smith 92 81 Cath Keers Benchmark EPS 2 77 15 Jacqueline fide Rojas Benchmark EPS continues to be one of our key pro t measures.
This measure re ects the pro tability of the Group and therefore helps to align Notes: awards with growth in this key financial metric.
For the FY15 awards, 1 Remuneration Committee chair until July 2012 with an additional prorated growth rates will be measured over the three financial years FY15, FY16 fee of 25,000 and appointed senior independent director July 2012 with an and FY17 on a point-to-point basis.
additional prorated fee of 10,000 in FY13.
The committee continues to set stretching benchmark EPS growth 2 Appointed during FY13.
Fees for this period are prorated to reflect service.
targets which are aligned to our growth ambitions.
25% of this element The fees shown above include the element used to purchase shares.
of the award vests for EPS CAGR of 7%, with full vesting 100% of this element requiring CAGR of 20%.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line performance basis between these two points.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 57 Non-executive directors arrangements for FY15 non-audited The table below provides information on the Groups forward looking arrangements for non-executive directors in relation to FY15.
Cash element Element of fee to be used 1 000 of fee to purchase shares Total Chairman 200 50 250 Non-executive director base fee 50 27 77 Senior independent director fee 10 10 Audit Committee chairman fee 22.5 22.5 Remuneration Committee chair fee 15 15 Note: 1 This element of the fee must be used to purchase Group shares after the payment of tax.
Shares purchased must be retained until retirement from the Board of Directors.
Audited information relating to share awards Awards made to executive directors during FY14 audited The table below sets out details of the awards made under the PSP to the executive directors during FY14.
These awards are subject to the performance conditions set out on page 47.
1 Number of shares Face value Face value Threshold vesting End of Type of award Date of grant granted 000 % of salary % of face value performance period Terry Duddy PSP 22 05 13 1,397,783 2,095 250% 25% 27 02 16 Richard Ashton PSP 22 05 13 800,640 1,200 250% 25% 27 02 16 Note: 1 Face value calculated using the average of the preceding ten days mid-market closing price as per the scheme rules, which is the share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Outstanding scheme interests of executive directors audited The table below provides details of the position as at the end of FY14 or position as at the date of resignation of the executive director from the Board if earlier of outstanding awards made to the executive directors who served in the period under review.
Terry Duddy received 69,553 and Richard Ashton received 35,625.
2 Share price has been rounded to one decimal place.
Home Retail Group 58 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Share options The following table shows the share options granted under the sharesave plan and the approved share options granted under an HMRC approved amendment to the PSP.
At the time of vesting, to the extent that there is a gain on the approved options under the PSP, conditional awards to the same value will be forfeited, resulting in the same gross value as a conditional award only.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited The Group requires executive directors to hold shares equivalent to 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The executive directors are required to retain at least 50% of the after-tax value of shares vesting under the long-term incentive arrangements until such time as the guidelines have been met.
During FY14, both executive directors have met the shareholding requirement in full.
The table below sets out the directors current interests in Home Retail Group shares as at the year end.
Executive directors Interest in share options without Total shares and options not subject to Shares owned outright performance conditions performance conditions 1 at 1 March 2014 as at 1 March 2014 as at 1 March 2014 2 Terry Duddy 3,231,547 197,277 3,428,824 Richard Ashton 615,200 95,960 711,160 Notes: 1 The split of these holdings is shown in the share options table above.
2 2,619,355 shares are held by the director and 612,192 are held by a connected person.
Non-executive directors Shares owned outright Shares owned outright by at 1 March 2014 connected persons at 1 March 2014 John Coombe 10,000 108,775 Mike Darcey 42,534 Ian Durant 28,366 Cath Keers 29,983 Jacqueline fide Rojas 8,908 External appointments Terry Duddy is a non-executive director of Hammerson for which he received and retained an annual fee of 58,000.
Payments made to past directors audited No payments were made during FY14.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 59 Payments for loss of of ce audited The table below illustrates the Chief Executive single gure for total No payments were made during FY14.
remuneration, annual bonus pay out and PSP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the same five-year period.
Percentage change in remuneration non-audited The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, bene ts and Chief Executive single gure of Annual bonus annual bonus for the Chief Executive compared with that of colleagues remuneration pay out LTIP vesting in the broad-banded population which covers a range of roles, both 000 % of maximum % of maximum management and non-management across the Group.
Remuneration for FY14 1,983 64% 0% broad-banded colleagues is not subject to union negotiations and as such is felt by the committee to provide the most reasonable comparator group.
FY13 2,134 53% 0% FY12 1,732 17% 0% % change % change % change in base salary in bene ts in annual bonus FY11 1,709 25% 0% FY13FY14 FY13FY14 FY13FY14 1 FY10 4,676 100% 62% Chief Executive 0.0% increase 12.2% increase 21.5% increase Broad-banded Note: colleagues 2.1% increase 3.9% increase 26.7% decrease 1 The FY10 single figure includes vesting from a number of legacy award schemes from GUS plc, as well as bonus and LTIP pay-out for that year.
Notes: Relative importance of spend on pay non-audited Figures for the Chief Executive relate to Terry Duddy.
The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total remuneration The most significant increase in benefit values for the Chief Executive results from a change in method of providing drivers.
Other general benefit compared to benchmark pro t after tax and distributions to shareholder cost changes also affected eligible broad-banded colleagues.
Bonus for the Chief Executive in FY13 was reduced by the committee by one third to reflect overall Group performance.
The FY14 bonus is subject FY14 FY13 Percentage change to a smaller reduction in connection with the provision for potential PPI m m year-on-year misselling.
The increase from FY13 to FY14 is reflective of the impact of 1 both changes.
Bonuses for broad-banded colleagues in FY13 were not Total remuneration 659.8 669.6 1.5% decrease reduced by one third and are based on metrics that are relevant for their role and reflect Group and personal performance.
Benchmark pro t after tax 82.9 61.4 35.0% increase Historic TSR performance and Chief Executive remuneration outcomes non-audited Shareholder The graph below compares the TSR of Home Retail Group against the FTSE 2 distributions 25.8 24.0 7.5% increase 350 Index of General Retailers for a five-year period.
The FTSE 350 Index of General Retailers is considered the most appropriate choice of index as it is 1 Excludes exceptional credit of 33.0m relating to the closure of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
a relevant comparator group for a retail business.
2 Shareholder distributions refers to the dividends paid or declared in respect of the financial year.
350 Shareholder voting non-audited 325 The table below sets out the results of the vote on the FY13 remuneration 300 report at the 2013 AGM: 275 250 Votes % 225 Votes in favour 560,339,295 93.61 200 175 Votes against 38,227,567 6.39 150 Total votes 598,566,862 100.00 125 100 Votes withheld 34,754,483 75 50 The committee is pleased with the level of shareholder support for the 25 FY13 remuneration report and is committed to ongoing dialogue with 28 February 27 February 28 February 3 March 2 March 1 March shareholders.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Value of 100 invested on 28 February 2009 Cath Keers Home Retail Group FTSE 350 Index of General Retailers Chair Remuneration Committee 30 April 2014
