Governance Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the new disclosure requirements for directors pay - Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Remuneration policy The Committees remuneration policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior Executives is based on the following principles: to align rewards with the Groups financial and operational performance to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Groups strategy as a customer focused operation to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient, but no more than necessary, to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: fixed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and variable performance-related remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
The Committee is satisfied that neither the structure of the remuneration packages, with the high weighting on variable pay, nor the performance measures targeted under the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, encourages inappropriate risk taking.
The remuneration arrangements are designed so as to provide a strong alignment of interest between the Executives and shareholders and to support the growth and performance aspirations of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements meet these objectives.
Furthermore, a claw-back provision to annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards was introduced in 2011 which helps to guard further against excessive risk-taking.
Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration The table opposite summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, will become effective immediately thereafter.
72 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures and to strategy Period maximum limits Basic salary To reflect the Usually Individual pay is determined by the Committee taking particular skills reviewed into account the role, responsibilities, performance and experience annually, with and experience of the individual and market data on of an individual any changes comparable roles.
Consideration is also given to overall and to provide a normally taking business performance and pay and employment competitive base effect from 1 conditions elsewhere in the Company when salary compared July each year.
determining any increases to base salary levels for the with similar Executive Directors.
roles in similar When reviewing salary increases, the Committee also companies.
takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package.
Details of the current salaries of the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The annual Annual Annual bonuses are determined by reference to related bonus bonus is determined performance against a mix of customer, commercial designed to after the year and personal objectives.
Before any bonus is payable drive and reward end a minimum level of both customer and financial the short-term performance must be achieved.
operating Bonuses are based on group performance and, if performance of relevant, the specific territory for which an Executive the Company Director is responsible.
Individual performance accounts and encourage for no more than 20% of the overall bonus opportunity.
the delivery of The maximum potential quantum is 100% of salary and consistently assuming their personal objectives are met in full, the good customer normal on-target bonus is 60% of basic salary.
Bonuses are payable in cash but may be deferred into shares under the matching element of the LTIP.
Long-term To drive longThree years Awards of performance and matching shares are incentives term delivery granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan which was of the Groups approved by shareholders in 2008. objectives, to The maximum limit is 200% of salary for performance align Directors share awards currently awards of 150% of salary are interests with made to the Executive Directors and a maximum 2:1 those of the match on voluntary investment of bonus into shares.
Companys The maximum amount of bonus that may be invested shareholders is set at 75% of the maximum bonus potential i. e. and to 75% of salary.
If the bonus earned is less than 25% of encourage salary, then the executive may invest the equivalent exceptional of 25% of salary, from their own money, in shares to performance.
In determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
Both performance and matching awards are subject to the same performance condition which is currently relative Total Shareholder Return, subject to satisfactory underlying earnings performance.
Performance is measured over a performance period of at least three years.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 73 Governance Remuneration report Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures and to strategy Period maximum limits Pension To provide N A Richard Harpin participates in the Water Companies benefits Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme which is comparable closed to new members.
The other Executive Directors with similar receive a 20% contribution to the HomeServe Money roles in similar Plan a defined contribution scheme.
The key features of companies.
these schemes are set out beneath this policy table.
Retirement benefits under both schemes are restricted by a notional earnings cap 129,670 for 2013 14.
An unapproved pension contribution equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is paid annually.
Executives may choose to have this amount paid directly into their pension or may receive it as cash.
As an alternative to the above arrangements for those affected by the Lifetime Allowance, the Committee may also permit the pension contribution up to 20% of salary to be taken solely as a cash allowance.
Other Provides a N A Other benefits comprise a fully expensed car or cash benefits competitive alternative, fuel allowance, private health cover for the package of individual, partner and dependant children, death in benefits to assist service benefits up to 5 x salary and permanent health with recruitment insurance for members of the HomeServe Money Plan.
and retention of There is no maximum limit on the value of the benefits staff.
provided but the Committee monitors the total cost of the benefit provision.
Save As You To encourage N A The Executive Directors may participate in the Groups Earn Scheme employee share Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Scheme is subject to ownership.
limits on the level of individual participation as set by HMRC.
No performance conditions are attached to this Scheme.
Chairman and To attract N A Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Non-Executive and retain Board.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the Directors fees Non-Executive Remuneration Committee taking into account the views Directors of the of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself right calibre.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically and are set to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment of the role and the experience of the individual.
Fee levels are set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fees for the Non-Executive directors comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid for chairing a Committee or for the Senior Independent Directorship.
The Chairman receives an all encompassing fee for his role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The fees are paid monthly in cash.
