Directors remuneration report Summary of directors remuneration policy STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE CHAIR Profit growth and cash management which are within 32 OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE managements control and influence are considered to be the key drivers of shareholder value at Howdens.
As such, our Dear Shareholder incentive arrangements are designed to reward participants only if strong performance is achieved against these drivers.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors The Committee carefully considered appropriate targets for Remuneration Report for 2014 in my new role as Chairman our incentive schemes based on internal budget figures, prior of the Howdens Remuneration Committee.
Michael Wemms year PBT and brokers forecasts.
stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 8 May 2014, and I and the other members of the Committee would like We believe our remuneration policy has played a key role in to thank him for his extensive contribution and for the helping to achieve our goals and ensuring existing shareholders insightful input and experience he brought to our discussions benefit from Howdens success.
Following an in depth review, we announced a number of At the 2014 AGM, we received approval for our remuneration organisational changes in May designed to support the policy with a vote in favour of 98.4%.
We believe that continued growth and development of our company.
As part of this clearly demonstrates the high level of confidence these changes, Mark Robson was appointed to the position of our investors have in the alignment of our remuneration Deputy CEO and CFO and is now responsible for the day to day framework with shareholders and with the continued growth management of the business in addition to his responsibilities and development of our Company.
In my new role as Chair as CFO.
of the Remuneration Committee I have been out to meet a number of our largest shareholders, and their comments Decisions made in 2014 and feedback support this view.
The Committee met four times in the year, once more than in our ordinary cycle.
The additional meeting was in view of the As we are not seeking approval for a new policy this year, we organisational changes discussed above, with the Committee include a summary of our approved policy in this report to believing it necessary to thoroughly consider and discuss the support our investors in considering the information set out in remuneration of those executives whose roles have changed.
In our annual report on remuneration.
Our full policy is available particular, the Committee considered an appropriate salary level to review on our website at www.
com for Mark Robson in his new role.
Given his significant increase in remit and his past performance in delivering our strong recent It is intended that our approved remuneration policy will growth, the Committee awarded him a 5% salary increase continue to apply for this year.
The Committee continues to effective from the date he took on his new responsibilities.
believe that the structures set out in this policy are the most appropriate for the business, although we will continue to This year, payouts for our executive directors under the bonus monitor these arrangements and will consider whether changes were at 127% of salary, reflecting the strong profit growth 37% to the structure are appropriate as part of the remuneration and cash generation cash flow of 218m achieved over the review planned for later in the year.
If it is determined that year.
Co-Investment plan shares have vested at their maximum policy changes are appropriate, the Committee will seek to potential, reflecting a PBT growth over the last three years amend the policy and put this to a shareholder vote at the averaging 20% per annum, and an exceptionally strong share appropriate time.
price increase, from 1.31 at the date of grant to 3.64.
Context to reward outcomes The key decisions made by the Committee included: Over the past year we have continued to deliver strong growth across the business.
We have achieved sales of over 1 billion Approval of 2014 annual bonus payouts at 127% of and our gross margin continues to improve.
The strength of our salary following exceptionally strong profit and cash flow business model has driven strong cash generation, supporting performance in the year.
return of capital to our shareholders and allowing us to consider a number of investment opportunities both in the UK Approval of the vesting in full of the 2012 Co-Investment and further afield.
plan reflecting the strong profit and share price performance achieved over the last three years.
Approval for Mark Robsons revised salary in view of his new role.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Implementation of policy in 2015 33 The revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code includes a requirement that clawback and malus provisions apply to incentive scheme awards.
Although our policy does not include formal clawback provisions, the Committee believe that it is in the interests of our shareholders to include provisions allowing the Company to recover amounts paid or reduce vesting outcomes in certain scenarios.
As such, clawback and malus provisions will apply to awards made under the annual bonus for the bonus corresponding to FY15 onwards and the Co-Investment Plan for grants made in 2015 and onwards.
Further details on these provisions are set out in our Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 39 to 48.
In light of the overall opportunity of the package, executive directors will not receive a salary increase for 2015.
We will continue to keep these salaries under review.
The PBT and cash flow targets for the annual bonus have been increased to reflect the improved prospects for our Company over the coming year, considered in the context of internal budget and brokers forecasts.
The Co-Investment Plan will continue to be used as our long-term incentive vehicle for executive directors in 2015.
The PBT target range applying to the plan for 2015 will be 8% to 20% p. a. growth, in line with the targets for awards made in 2014.
The Committee believes that this range continues to represent a stretching level of long-term growth for the business.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members as well as those other individuals who supported the Committee during the year for their hard work and commitment.
As a Committee, we remain committed to open and transparent dialogue with our shareholders.
If you would like to discuss any part of our remuneration policy, I would welcome your views.
On behalf of the Board Tiffany Hall Remuneration Committee Chairman 25 February 2015 Directors remuneration report Summary of directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy 34 Howdens Remuneration Policy, as set out in our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM with the intention that it apply for three years from that date.
Our Remuneration Policy is also available in full on our website, at www.
No changes are proposed to this policy and so for clarity for shareholders we set out in this report a summary of its key elements, together with information on our approach to implementing policy in 2014 and 2015.
Future policy table executive directors Remuneration is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group.
In addition to benchmarking, the Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market conditions, and to governance requirements.
The table below sets out the key components of executive directors pay packages, including why they are used and how they are operated in practice.
Element and how it supports our strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, Increases will normally be only for inflation and or in line None and are effective from 1 with the wider employee population.
Recognises the January each year.
Salaries Salaries are set within a range defined by a market market value will not be changed outside of benchmark derived from companies of a comparable size of the executives the annual review, except for operating in a similar sector policy is to pay median.
The role, skill, in exceptional circumstances, peer group used is reviewed whenever benchmarking responsibilities, such as a mid-year change is performed, and the Committee applies judgement performance and in role.
in identifying appropriate peer group constituent experience.
The individuals level of total remuneration against the market is considered at the same time.
Reviews will also take into account the performance of the individuals, any changes in their responsibilities, pay increases for the wider workforce and internal relativities.
2014 and 2015 salary levels are detailed in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 section on page 46.
Howdens pays the cost of Benefits are based upon market rates and include receipt None Benefits providing the benefits on a of a car allowance: non-exclusive use of a driver: health Provides a monthly basis or as required insurance and death-in-service insurance payable by competitive level for one-off events.
Annual bonus Performance is assessed Threshold performance under both PBT and cash flow Performance is measured annually against cash flow and components will result in a payout of 18% of salary for over the financial year.
The Committee may change the threshold payout If an event occurs which annual profit Any bonus earned in excess of levels over the life of the policy.
causes the Committee and cash flow 100% of salary is deferred into The cash flow element can result in a payout of up to 20% to consider that the performance over shares.
Shares are paid out in of salary.
Achievement against PBT targets can result in performance targets are the financial year.
equal tranches on the first and a payout of up to 200% of salary.
However as the total no longer appropriate, the Deferral links second anniversary of deferral bonus receivable by executives cannot exceed 200% of Committee may substitute bonus payout date.
Payment is subject to salary, the maximum payout under PBT is limited by the or vary the targets in such to share price continued employment.
achievement against cash flow targets.
manner as is reasonable performance over No dividend equivalents accrue The maximum bonus potential of 200% of salary in the circumstances and the medium-term.
represents a notional cap on the profit share component produces a fairer measure The Company has the ability and the Committee does not envisage this level of payout of performance and is not to withhold payment of part or being attained.
materially more or less all of the bonus if it does not challenging to satisfy.
believe the vesting outcome is The Committee may a fair reflection of individual or change the weightings Company performance.
of the performance measures over the life of the policy.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Element and how 35 it supports our strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Measures Co-Investment Executives have the The CEO can invest up to the lesser of 650,000 shares or PBT performance Plan CIP opportunity to participate in 150% of salary.
is measured over a the CIP on an annual basis.
The Deputy CEO and CFO is able to invest an equivalent three year period.
The Focuses The CIP operates over a three proportion of salary.
targets are set at the management year cycle.
Each invested share is matched by the Group with up start of each three year on longer-term The investment is funded to two shares, subject to performance.
PBT growth than by executive directors performance, 0.3 matching shares vest per invested share.
addressed by the themselves from their personal Note that the maximum matching opportunity allowable annual bonus.
shareholding deferred annual under this policy is set below the limit allowable under the Long-term PBT bonus shares are not allowable scheme rules of five matching shares per invested share.
growth is key to for investment purposes.
The Company does not intend to make awards above the the generation The matching shares vest after policy maximum of two shares per invested share.
of shareholder a three year vesting period value.
subject to performance against PBT growth targets.
The Company has the ability to vary the performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to consider that they have ceased to be a fair measure of individual or Company performance.
No dividend equivalents accrue on matching shares.
Long-Term Awards of restricted shares or The plan allows for awards to be granted to participants PBT performance would Incentive Plan share options may be made of up to 100% of salary in restricted shares or 200% be measured over a LTIP under the LTIP.
of salary in market value options, with threshold three year period.
The Awards are not currently being performance delivering 15 percent of maximum.
targets would be set at An alternative granted under the plan but the Awards under this plan have not been granted to the start of the three year to the CIP.
Committee retains the flexibility executive directors since 2010 and will not be granted in performance period.
to use it in future years as an years when executive directors also receive CIP awards.
The shares or options would vest after a three year vesting period subject to performance against PBT growth targets.
O n 30 May 2014, Mark Robson was promoted from his role of CFO to Deputy CEO and CFO.
His remuneration package remains in line with the policy previously applicable to him as CFO.
Further details are laid out in the approach to implementation of policy section of the annual report on remuneration on page 39.
Directors remuneration report Summary of directors remuneration policy continued Element and how 36 it supports our strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Measures The Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan is a hybrid defined benefit, occupational None Pension pension plan.
Provides The defined benefit pension accrues on a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE competitive basis at the rate of 1 50th of actual pensionable pay in each year currently capped at long-term savings 142,200: the cap increases annually in line with CPI.
In addition the Company will match any voluntary member contribution made to the defined contribution top-up section to a maximum of 8% of pensionable pay.
Alternatively, a participant may receive a salary supplement of 8% of salary in lieu of this defined contribution opportunity.
A pension supplement system operates concurrently with the Plan which recognises that pension entitlement in respect of the CARE part of the Plan is capped.
This supplement is 30% of basic salary above the Plan Cap to reflect competitive market practice.
The CEO has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan and consequently receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension.
This plan is now closed to new entrants.
If an executive director joins who is not already a member of the plan, they will be able to participate in the new auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of 30% of total base salary.
Shareholding Executive directors are The CEO is expected to build up a holding None requirement expected to retain vested of 200% of base salary.
shares from deferred bonus Other executive directors are required to Strengthens and long-term incentive awards hold 100% of base salary.
alignment of net of income tax and national interests between insurance contributions participants and until they reach the minimum shareholders.
Unvested deferred bonus and long-term incentive shares are not taken into account.
Fees for The fees for the non-executives Fees for non-executive directors are set out in the NEDs are not eligible non-executive are determined by the statement of implementation of remuneration policy in to participate in any directors Chairman and Chief Executive.
2015 section on page 46. performance related The fee for the Chairman The fees reflect the time commitment and responsibilities arrangements.
To attract NEDs is determined by the of the roles.
Accordingly committee chairmanship and who have a Remuneration Committee while Senior Independent Director SID fees are paid in broad range the Chairman is absent.
addition to the NEDs basic fee.
Committee chairmanship of experience No other services are provided fees apply only to the Audit and Remuneration and skills to to the Group by non-executive Committees.
The Chairman receives no fees in addition oversee the directors.
implementation Fees may be reviewed every year, and are set within of our strategy.
a range defined by a market benchmark of FTSE 250 companies.
Benchmarking is typically undertaken every three years.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Approach to recruitment remuneration 37 The treatment and design of the various elements of remuneration paid to new recruits is set out in the table below.
The Committees policy is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
However, in unusual circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made only where critical to the recruitment of an exceptional candidate, and within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
Component Policy General The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
Any new executive directors ongoing package would be consistent with our remuneration policy as set out in this report.
Base salary The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to and benefits similar roles in comparable companies policy is to pay median.
In certain circumstances the Committee may initially position the executive directors salary below the market level and increase it to market levels through exceptional increases over an appropriate period of time.
The executive director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Howdens benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Should relocation of a newly recruited executive director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, replacement of non-transferrable household items and related taxes incurred.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and provision of tax advice.
Pension The executive director will be able to participate in the auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of up to a maximum of 30% of base salary.
Annual bonus The executive director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 200% of salary.
Long-term The executive director will be eligible to participate in the long-term incentive schemes set out in the incentives remuneration policy table.
This allows for awards to be made under either the CIP or the LTIP but not both.
Accordingly the executive director may be offered a maximum investment opportunity under the CIP of the lesser of 650,000 shares and 150% of salary, with each invested share being matched by up to two matching shares.
Alternatively awards may be made under the LTIP to a maximum of 100% of salary in restricted shares or 200% of salary in options.
Replacement The Committee may grant the executive director awards to replace awards from a previous employment that are awards forfeited.
Should replacement awards be made, any awards granted would be no more generous overall in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will take into account the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
Directors remuneration report Summary of directors remuneration policy continued Policy on payment for loss of office 38 The treatment of the various elements of remuneration payable to executive directors in a loss of office scenario is set out in the table below.
In exceptional circumstances an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual, however any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
The Committee will only take such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Full disclosure of any payments will be made in accordance with the new Remuneration Reporting regulations.
Component Policy General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
As an overriding principle there should be no element of reward for failure.
Base salary In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or and benefits normal resignation.
In other circumstances, executive directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary that the executive would have received if still in employment with the Company.
Pension An enhanced pension is payable in the event of retirement through ill health.
There is no scope for enhancements to individuals accrued pension entitlements for other loss of office scenarios.
Annual bonus Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Long-term The treatment of outstanding deferred annual bonus is governed by written agreements with individuals and incentives the treatment of long-term incentive awards by the rules of the relevant plan.
Individuals are defined as either and deferred a good or bad leaver for the purposes of outstanding incentive awards.
Good leavers are those leaving under annual bonus pre-specified circumstances such as retirement, ill health or disability or those deemed by the Committee at its absolute discretion as a good leaver given the circumstances surrounding the loss of office.
All other leavers are bad leavers.
If an individual is a good leaver or dies then they will either continue to hold the award which will vest on the normal vesting date based on Howdens performance where applicable, or the Committee may exercise discretion to accelerate vesting of the award, pro-rated to reflect the extent to which the performance targets have been met allowing for the curtailed performance period.
In both scenarios the amount vesting is pro-rated for the proportion of the period elapsed when the individual leaves.
If an individual is a bad leaver then all awards to which they are conditionally entitled will lapse in full.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration This annual report on remuneration outlines remuneration related activities and outcomes over the past year.
The report 39 represents the implementation of the Companys remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is set out in full in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and on the Groups website.
Those sections of this report which have been audited are indicated in the title to the section.
Approach to implementation of policy All remuneration paid to our executive directors in 2014 has been in line with our approved policy.
Although this policy applies specifically to executive directors of the Group, Executive Committee members participate in the same incentive schemes as the executive directors at a reduced level to ensure alignment between the leadership team with each other and with our shareholders.
Mark Robson change in role On 30 May 2014, Mark Robson was appointed to the role of Deputy CEO and CFO of the Group.
In his new role, Mr Robson is responsible for the day to day management of the business in addition to his responsibilities as CFO, representing a significant increase in Mr Robsons remit.
Accordingly, the Committee carefully considered market benchmarking information in line with our policy and determined that an increase of 5%, to 421,000, was appropriate.
This increase reflects the extent of Mr Robsons new responsibilities, together with his exceptional performance in role and his contribution to our strong profitable growth.
There are no other changes to Mr Robsons package, which remains in line with policy.
As such, areas of our approved policy applying to the CFO role continue to apply to Mr Robson as Deputy CEO and CFO.
Clawback and malus In response to the release of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has determined that clawback and malus provisions should apply to awards made under the Annual Bonus for the bonus corresponding to the 2015 financial year onwards, and the Co-Investment Plan and Long-term Incentive Plan for grants made in 2015 onwards.
Although our remuneration policy does not include a formal clawback policy, the Committee believes that it is in the interests of our shareholders to implement provisions entitling the Company to recover amounts paid or reduce vesting outcomes in certain scenarios.
It is the Committees intention that formal clawback and malus provisions be incorporated into our approved policy when this is next reviewed.
Further details around the provisions to be implemented for 2015 are set out in the statement of implementation of remuneration policy section on page 47.
Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Single total figure of remuneration subject to audit 40 The table below sets out the aggregate remuneration received by directors for 2013 and 2014.
Further details on the pension, annual bonus and Co-Investment Plan figures are contained in following sections.
2 M ark Robson received a salary increase of 5% effective as of 30 May 2014 from 401,000 to 421,000, reflecting his additional responsibilities in his new role as Deputy CEO and CFO.
The figure shown above therefore represents 5 months at his original salary and 7 months at the revised figure.
3 D ue to a clerical payroll error, Mr. Robson was not paid a component of his benefits package in 2012 or 2013.
The amounts not paid to Mr. Robson in 2012 or 2013 will be paid to him as part of his 2015 benefits package to ensure that his overall remuneration position is up to date.
The aggregate Directors remuneration, including salary, bonus, benefits and cash pension allowances is 3,025k.
Additional requirements in respect of single figure table subject to audit Annual bonus targets and outcomes The table on the following page sets out the 2014 annual bonus targets and performance outcomes which underlie the bonus figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2014.
These targets were set by the Remuneration Committee in February 2014 in line with the approach detailed in our approved policy.
As incentive targets they are designed to be stretching for participants in light of Howdens budget, prior year PBT and brokers forecasts.
They do not represent the Groups budget figures for last year.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the payments fairly reflected Group performance for 2014.
41 PBT Cash flow Overall Above Threshold Target target Achieved Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Total Cash Deferred Performance 138m 161m 185m 189m 148m 170m 189m 218m Payment % of salary unless otherwise stated 10% 85% 105% 107% 8% 15% 20% 20% 127% 100% 27% Matthew Ingle 726 572 154 Outcomes for executive directors 000 Mark Robson 524 413 111 Co-Investment Plan The table below sets out the details of the 2012 Co-Investment Plan targets and performance outcomes which underlie the CoInvestment Plan figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2014.
These awards will vest on 26 March 2015.
The 2012 CIP is based on three year growth in PBT from that achieved in 2011.
In our 2011 Annual Report and Accounts the PBT figure for the year was disclosed as 110.0m.
This was updated in the FY 2012 Annual Report and Accounts to 111.0m in view of the closure in 2012 of the Asia Supply Division and subsequent recategorisation of 1.0m of 2011s Cost of sales as a Discontinued operations: Loss before tax exceptional item.
In such scenarios the Committee believes that it should determine on a case by case basis whether an adjustment should be made through consideration of a range of factors including materiality, the extent to which the circumstances are within managements control and the impact on the overall vesting outcome.
Consideration of 2014 PBT indicated that the base PBT figure used was not material for the purpose of calculating the 2012 CoInvestment Plan vesting outcome, with full vesting being projected in either scenario.
As such, the Committee determined that the restated figure of 111m should be used in this case.
Three year PBT growth Threshold Maximum Achieved Performance 6% p. a.
20% p. a. Vesting matching shares per invested share 0.3 2.0 2.0 Given the performance achieved as set out above, the table below sets out the value of this award for participants.
This is based on a share price of 3.64, being the three-month average share price to 27 December 2014.
Number of Total value at 3.64 awards vesting per share 000 000s Matthew Ingle 1,300 4,732 Outcomes for executive directors Mark Robson 912 3,319 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Total pension entitlements subject to audit 42 Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan the Plan, details of which are provided in the policy table on page 36.
The plan is not open to new joiners.
The table below sets out the accrued pension for both executive directors, with pension values calculated using the HMRC method.
No additional benefits become receivable if executive directors retire early.
Matthew Ingle had a fully funded pension position in 2006 and hence has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan.
Mr Ingle therefore receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension 171,510 in 2014.
Although Mr Ingle has now reached his normal retirement date under the Plan, he did not draw any pension in the year.
Pension value in the Pension value in the Pension value in Accrued year from defined year from defined year from cash pension at Normal benefit component contribution component allowance Total 27 Dec 2014 retirement Name 000s date 000s 000s 000s 000s Matthew Ingle 50 28 09 2014 172 172 Mark Robson 29 16 01 2019 57 33 81 171 Loss of office payment or payments to past directors subject to audit No loss of office payments or payments to past directors were made in the year under review.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit During 2014 the executive directors were invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
The plan operated in line with our approved policy, and as such was in line with awards granted in 2013, as follows: The CEO was able to invest up to the lesser of 650,000 shares and 150% salary of his own shares into the plan for three years.
At the time of award, 150% of salary equated to 226,566 shares based on a closing share price of 3.79 on the day prior to grant.
The Deputy CEO and CFO was able to invest up to the same proportion of salary as the CEO.
Both the CEO and Deputy CEO and CFO invested the full amount.
Under the Plan, each invested share is matched by up to two additional shares which vest subject to the achievement of stretching PBT growth targets.
In setting the performance targets, the Remuneration Committee aims to align managements reward with longer-term PBT growth which is central to the achievement of the Groups strategy.
Targets for the 2014 CIP were set in line with policy and as such provide a range which represents long-term success for Howdens.
This award is not subject to a clawback provision, however the Company does retain the right to vary the performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to consider that they have ceased to be a fair measure of individual or Company performance.
Future awards under the CIP will be subject to a clawback provision, as set out in the implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 section of the report on page 47.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The table below provides further details of this award.
43 Nature of award Restricted shares awarded under the Co-Investment Plan Level of award Number of Maximum potential Face value of Executive invested shares matching shares CIP award CEO 226,566 453,131 1,715,101 Deputy CEO & CFO 158,917 317,834 1,203,002 PBT growth Number of matching shares that PBT component vesting schedule performance condition would vest per invested share 20% p. a.
2.0 Straight-line vesting between these points Straight-line vesting between these points 8% p. a.
Performance period Performance measured from FY2014 to FY2016 Vesting date 26 March 2017 Based on a share price of 3.79, being the closing price on the 25 March 2014 source: Datastream.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests subject to audit In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company.
Under the share ownership guidelines the Chief Executive is required to hold a personal shareholding equal to twice his basic salary.
Other executive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal to their basic salary.
Shares deferred under the deferred bonus plan and unvested incentive shares are not counted towards this requirement.
There are no shareholding guidelines for non-executive directors.
The table below sets out the total shares in the Group held or potentially held by directors and the extent to which the executive directors have met the shareholding guidelines.
Owned Shareholding outright Share awards Options Shareholding requirement including subject to subject to Vested but Current requirement number of connected Subject to performance performance unexercised shareholding Guideline Director % shares persons deferral conditions conditions options % of salary met?
This is calculated using those shares owned outright by the executive director only.
The table above highlights the significant investment held by executive directors in Howdens shares, which is well in excess of that required under their shareholding guidelines.
Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued The table below sets out options exercised by the executive directors in the year, following the full vesting of option awards in 2008, 44 2012 and 2013.
Average market Average gain on No of options Average value at exercise exercise of share Director exercised exercise Price date options Matthew Ingle 3,756,045 0.65 3.70 3.05 Mark Robson Performance graph and table 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Howdens 2 2 3 4 5 6 Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CEO single figure1 000s 1,399 1,458 6,083 3,401 5,168 6,221 Annual bonus % of maximum 63% 69% 66% 51% 63% 64% LTI vest % of maximum 100% 100% 89% 100% The graph above illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent.
It shows that over the past six years Howden Joinery Group has generated significantly higher returns than the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Beneath the graph is a history of the CEO single figure and incentive payout levels.
It shows that the bonus has recognised consistently strong annual performance, and that long-term incentives LTI have reflected the challenges that faced the Company after 2008 and recognised the turnaround delivered by the Group since then.
These figures are buoyed by significant share price increases over the periods, as illustrated by the graph.
E ach CEO single figure has been prepared as per the prescribed methodology, and includes base salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus payments.
The figures also include long-term incentive vests where relevant.
No long-term incentives vested which relate to the 2009 and 2010 CEO single figures.
T he 2011 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2009 premium priced option awards.
This comprised two equal tranches of options, one with a premium exercise price of 25p and the other with a premium exercise price of 50p share price at grant was 18.75p.
The awards vested in full as cumulative PBT in the three financial years ending in 2009, 2010 and 2011 exceeded the target set of 90 million.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 1.188 at the date of vest a growth of 81% p. a.. 4.
The 2012 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2010 market priced option award, which had an exercise price of 87p.
The share options vested in full as the Groups 2012 PBT exceeded the maximum growth target of RPI 8% p. a. on 2009 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 2.38 at the date of vest a growth of 43% p. a.. 5.
T he 2013 CEO single figure includes the partial vesting of the 2011 CIP award.
89% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2013 PBT had grown at 11% p. a. on 2010 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price growth over the period to 3.19 the three-month average to 28 December 2013, source: Datastream from 1.10 at the date of grant, a growth of 43% p. a.
T he 2014 CEO single figure includes the full vesting of the 2012 CIP award.
100% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2014 PBT had grown at 20% p. a. on 2011 PBT.
As with the CIP award vesting in 2013, the value shown in the single figure reflects the significant share price growth over the period to 3.64 the threemonth average to 26 December 2014, source: Datastream from 1.31 at the data of grant, a growth of 41% p. a. Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive 45 The table below sets out the change in short-term pay from 2013 to 2014 of the CEO compared to all employees on a per capita basis.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 000s 000s % increase 000s 000s % increase 000s 000s % increase 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 CEO 572 572 19 18 2.0% 726 723 0.4% All full time employees per capita 23 23 0.2 % 1 1 4.2 % 8 7 10.1% The slight decrease in the average per capita salary for our wider workforce reflects a significant number of new recruitments in the year from an average monthly number of full time equivalent employees of 6,499 in 2013 to 7,210 in 2014.
These recruitments were typically at a more junior level, positioned below the average salary of the wider workforce.
The average salary increase awarded to our existing employees in the year was 3%, in recognition of the continuing strong performance of our business.
The increase in bonus payouts to our workforce further reflects the significant growth achieved in the year and the Companys intention that our employees are rewarded for driving this success.
For 2015 the CEO will receive no salary increase, compared to an anticipated typical wider workforce increase of c. 3% of salary.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the change in total remuneration spend of the Group from 2013 to 2014 compared to: the total dividend paid by the Group: the total remuneration spend of the Group as a percentage of revenue: and the two incentive performance measures PBT and cash flow.
The figures are shown in m, unless otherwise specified.
Total remuneration Total remuneration spend Total dividend PBT Cash flow spend as a % Year m m of revenue m m 2013 256.2 23.3 27% 138 158 2014 286.5 40.3 26% 189 218 % increase 12% 173% 3 % 37% 38% Net cash flow from operating activities, being the definition used for the annual bonus scheme.
The figures above reflect our continuing growth in terms of financial performance, progression of Howdens dividend policy, and a significant increase in our workforce as detailed above.
We note that as new recruits have typically been at more junior roles in the business, the total remuneration spend as a percentage of our revenues has reduced.
External appointments It is recognised that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills, which will benefit the Company.
Howden Joinery Group allows executive directors and other appropriate senior employees to accept a maximum of one non-executive appointment outside the Company, subject to permission from the Committee, provided this is not with a competing company nor likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
No such appointments are currently in place.
Executive directors may retain the fees paid to them in respect of their non-executive duties.
Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 46 Remuneration policy will be implemented from 2015 as follows: Base salaries and fees Base salary increases for 2015 are set out in the table below: 2014 2015 Salary Salary Percentage Increase Percentage increase 000s from 2013 000s from 2014 Matthew Ingle 572 572 Mark Robson 421 5% 421 In July 2014, Mark Robson received a salary increase of 5% from 401,000 to 421,000 applied retrospectively from 30 May 2014, which was the date on which Mr Robson took on his new responsibilities as the Groups Deputy CEO and CFO.
No other changes were made to Mr Robsons remuneration package.
NED fee increases for 2015 are set out in the table below.
NED fees have not been increased since 2013.
2014 2015 Fee Fee Percentage increase Percentage increase 000s from 2013 000s from 2014 Chairman fee 190 190 Basic NED fee 45 45 Additional SID fee 3 3 Committee Chair fee 8 8 Annual bonus measures The table below sets out annual bonus measures for 2015.
This is the same structure as used in 2014 and is in line with our approved policy.
Targets for these measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Committee and so are not disclosed here.
The profit share percentages for CEO and Deputy CEO and CFO have been reduced from 0.325% and 0.228% respectively to reflect increased performance expectations for 2015.
Performance targets, together with achievement against them, will be set out in full in the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Definition Performance level Payout level PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax from Threshold 10% of salary continuing operations Target 85% of salary Above target Profit share for the CEO: 0.246% of PBT.
Profit share for the Deputy CFO: 0.181% of PBT.
Subject to aggregate bonus payout cap of 200% of salary Cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, Threshold 8% of salary taking into account the efficiency with which Target 15% of salary working capital is used, and adjusted for Maximum 20% of salary exceptional items Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary will be deferred into shares.
Deferred shares will be paid out in equal tranches on the first and second anniversary of deferral date.
Co-Investment Plan measure and targets The table below sets out CIP performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2015: Number of matching shares that PBT component PBT growth performance condition would vest per invested share vesting schedule 20% p. a.
2.0 Straight-line vesting between these points 8% p. a.
0.3 Less than 8% p. a. Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Clawback and malus provisions 47 The 2015 annual bonus and Co-Investment Plan grants will be subject to provisions that allow the Committee to reduce amounts vesting malus or reclaim awards paid clawback as follows: Cash bonus up to 100% of salary Clawback provisions will apply for a period of two years following payment.
Deferred bonus 50% of deferred amount Malus provisions will apply for the deferral period one year with clawback one year deferral period applying for a further year following vesting.
Deferred bonus 50% of deferred amount Malus provisions will apply for the deferral period two years.
two year deferral period Co-Investment Plan Clawback provisions will apply to amounts vesting under the CIP for two years following the vesting date.
Clawback provisions will apply in the event of material misstatement of accounts, erroneous assessment of a performance target, where the number of plan shares under an award was incorrectly determined, or gross misconduct by a director.
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Membership of the Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises of four independent non-executive directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
During the year, the members of the Committee were: Tiffany Hall Chairman of the Committee from 8 May 2014 Mark Allen Richard Pennycook Michael Wemms Chairman of the Committee until 8 May 2014 Under its terms of reference published in the Governance section of Howden Joinery Group Plc website at www.
com and reviewed on an annual basis the Committee is responsible for determining the broad policy and specific remuneration packages for executive directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
The Committee is also regularly updated on pay and conditions applying to other employees in the Company.
The Committee met four times during 2014 and attendance of the Committee is shown in the table below.
The meetings covered the following key areas: Approve salaries for the Executive Board members and Executive Committee, including the increase for Mark Robson resulting from his change in role.
Review the developments in corporate governance best practice and competitive market practice trends during the course of the year, including the provisions of the revised Corporate Governance Code.
Review and approve the remuneration report to shareholders.
Review and approve the Chairmans fees.
Review and approve the terms and conditions of the annual bonus and long-term incentives awarded in 2014, including determining the appropriate performance targets.
Review and approval of annual bonus payouts and share-based awards vesting in 2014. Review and approve the terms of reference of the Committee.
Consider and approve clawback and malus provisions for the Companys incentive schemes.
Initial review of incentives for 2015. Review of the balance between risk and reward to ensure that the incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems.
The Committee concluded that the incentives did not expose the Company to any excessive risk and were appropriately managed.
Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings is set out in the table below: 48 Number of Committee member Attendance meetings Mark Allen 2 4 Tiffany Hall 4 4 Richard Pennycook 4 4 Michael Wemms 4 4 D enotes Chairman.
Michael Wemms was Remuneration Committee Chairman for the February Remuneration Committee meeting and until 8 May 2014.
Tiffany Hall was Remuneration Committee Chairman thereafter and was Chairman of the June, July and November Remuneration Committee meetings.
Advice to the Committee The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive on matters concerning remuneration, although he is never present when his own reward is under discussion.
The Company Chairman attends the Remuneration Committee by invitation except when his own remuneration is determined.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but is never present when his own reward is determined.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
 LLP PwC is the Committees retained independent advisor and provided advice to the Committee during the year.
PwC has been independent advisor to the Committee since 2007, and was appointed by the Committee as the result of a tender process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updating the Committee on trends in compensation and governance matters and advising the Committee in connection with benchmarking of the total reward packages for the executive directors and other senior members of staff.
A representative from PwC attends each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2014 totaled 137,450, with fee levels based on the quantity and complexity of work undertaken.
PwC also provided risk assurance and tax advice to the Company during 2014.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below shows the voting outcome at the May 2014 AGM for the approval of the 2014 Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy.
1 2 Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report For Against For Against Votes 98.41% 1.59% 98.83% 1.17% 1 10,319,810 votes 2% of all votes were withheld.
2 438,496 votes 0% of all votes were withheld.
The Committee was pleased with the strong vote in favour received from shareholders for both our remuneration policy and annual report on remuneration.
Tiffany Hall Remuneration Committee Chairman 25 February 2015
