Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction The Committee believes it is important to maintain the flexibility to respond to individual The Remuneration Committee presents the circumstances.
However, its normal approach Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which has been to pay salaries within appropriate will be put to shareholders for a binding vote market competitive ranges, combined with at the Annual General Meeting to be held on realistic potential for above-market total 7 May 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval, compensation if performance is outstanding.
the effective date of this policy will be 8 May 2015.
The intention of the Committee is that The policy of the Committee is to set performance the policy will remain in place for three years.
conditions for incentives which are both stretching but also reasonably attainable in the environment The remuneration policy comprises a number in which the Company is then operating.
of sections: an illustration of the sensitivity of pay outcomes Changes in the remuneration policy relative to IMIs performance: In submitting a revised policy to shareholders a future policy table for executive directors, the only substantive changes, are as follows: which sets out the components of annual the Share Matching Plan SMP and remuneration: Performance Share Plan PSP will not be policies relating to other elements of executive operating again and will be allowed to expire director remuneration, including recruitment, without renewal, which was due in May 2015: service contracts, appointments and the introduction of performance share awards terminations: under a new plan, the IMI Incentive Plan IIP, remuneration policies that relate solely to the subject to approval at the 2015 AGM: Chairman and non-executive directors: and adopting performance measures designed the contextual information considered by the to align with our strategy: and Committee when making decisions on increases to the Share Ownership Guidelines executive directors remuneration.
from 125% to 150% - 250% of salary and mandated investment of 50% of net bonus IMIs remuneration philosophy into shares and retention of half of vested The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration share awards until share ownership guidelines generally, and incentives in particular, provide have been met.
strong alignment between individual performance, business performance and shareholder interests.
Details of decisions implemented in line with The remuneration policy also recognises that IMI both the 2014 and 2015 Remuneration Policies, operates in global and highly competitive markets such as salary increases and changes to bonus with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK.
opportunity and the incentive plan performance measures, are included in the Directors The policy is to provide competitive remuneration Remuneration Report.
packages to attract, motivate, reward and retain executives of the calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a significant component of the remuneration package to performance.
60 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Illustrations of the application of M W Selway IMIs remuneration policy Long-term incentives Bonus To illustrate the opportunity available to our executive directors, Fixed pay and the sensitivity of pay to performance, the adjacent graphs set out pay outcomes for three performance scenarios: 000 5,000 4,511 minimum, where pay is limited to fixed, non-performance related components based on 2015 salaries and the 4,000 43% corresponding pension and benefits as disclosed in 2014 : 3,000 on-target, where bonus vests at target levels for each 2,297 executive, and long-term incentives vest at threshold 21% 2,000 34% assuming targets are calibrated such that the lower end 34% of the vesting schedule is representative of on-target : and 1,046 1,000 maximum, where all variable pay components vest in full.
45% 23% 100% The charts are based on proposed IIP awards for 2015 in Minimum On-target Maximum accordance with the policy subject to approval.
No share price growth or dividend assumptions are made and all-employee Salary 770 770 770 share plans are excluded.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Future policy table executive directors Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Fixed elements of executive remuneration Salary Reviewed annually with change normally effective from January.
Normally any salary increase for an executive director will be in line with those of the wider workforce.
Increases Reflects individual When setting salary, the Committee takes into account the level beyond this may be awarded in certain circumstances, performance and of increase for a reference group of comparable employees in the such as a change in responsibility after taking into account personal contribution leadership group, market data, business performance, external the factors noted.
to delivering the Group economic factors, the complexity of the business and the role, strategy.
They are set cost, and the incumbents experience and performance.
in the context of total pay levels.
Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid monthly.
To the extent Up to 30% of salary required by law, part of this allowance will be paid into a defined Provides for retirement Legacy obligations of 35% of salary for appointments to the contribution pension arrangement.
With the Committees approval and supports succession Board before October 2013 will continue to be honoured.
the executive directors may redirect all or part of the balance of this planning.
allowance into a defined contribution pension arrangement.
Benefits The policy provides a normal range of benefits to executive The values of benefits vary significantly year-on-year directors.
These include but are not limited to: depending on the age and health of the individual, the cost Protects the wellof providing them and the geography in which the executive being of executives Non-cash: private healthcare for themselves and their family, is based.
However, the range of the benefits is not expected and to provide fair and life insurance, and other minor ancillary benefits.
to change from year to year.
reasonable market Cash and taxable allowances: car and fuel allowance, personal tax competitive benefits.
Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director advice and two annual round trips for the Chief Executive and his or to recruit an executive director from overseas, flexibility spouse between work and home locations.
is reserved to provide benefits that ensure that the individual and IMI can both achieve this commercial purpose.
Where it is in IMIs interests to request that executives work in a different country or region then we will pay relocation and provide benefits and allowances in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
Expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed.
All-employee share plans all-employee share plans do not have an associated performance framework All-Employee UK Plans Share Plans UK SAYE: an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option In line with the statutorily defined limits with respect Encourages share Scheme which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, including to investments, awards and discounts on the price of ownership amongst the UK-based executive directors.
the broader employee Employee Share Ownership Plan: an HMRC approved Share population and Incentive Plan which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, aligns interests of IMI including the UK-based executive directors.
employees with those of shareholders.
In addition Global Plans: All-employee share purchase plans operate in Eligible employees including executives can invest subject provides a tax efficient geographies outside the UK.
The vehicle and manner of award to the plan limits that apply to all participants, which vary by investment vehicle for varies by geography depending on local market restrictions and local market and plan.
the plan operated in the region.
62 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Future policy table executive directors contd Component Purpose Operation Variable components of executive remuneration Annual Incentive Bonus Drives and rewards performance against annual financial, strategic Payment of awards is determined by the Committee based on and operational goals, which are consistent with the medium to annual performance relative to set targets which are reviewed long-term strategic goals of IMI, also taking into account individual at the end of the year.
If the executive has not achieved their share ownership guideline, up to half of any bonus is mandated to be invested into IMI shares for at least three years.
Otherwise, the executive can elect whether to receive their bonus in cash and or shares.
Dividends or equivalent value payments accrue and are payable in cash or shares when shares are released.
Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules.
IMI Incentive Plan IIP Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of The Committee can make annual share-based awards.
executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in Dividends or equivalent value payments accrue and are shares.
The selected performance metrics support the long-term payable in cash or shares in respect of vested awards.
strategy of IMI and the plan and time horizon serves as a retention Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules.
Additional notes to the future policy table Recovery provisions The Committee has the power to operate malus and or clawback provisions in Legacy plans the event that the Company misstated financial results and if there was an error Awards made under the SMP and PSP prior to the approval of this Remuneration or miscalculation in determining the size of the award and or gross misconduct.
Policy will be permitted to vest in accordance with the terms approved in the prior The provisions enable the Committee to reduce future annual bonus payments, Remuneration Policy.
The final awards under these plans were made in 2014. reduce the number of shares under any form of share award, and or require an individual to make a payment to the Company on terms deemed to be fair and reasonable by the Committee.
Setting of performance measures and targets The Committee reviews and selects performance measures annually, taking Differences in the remuneration policy for executives relative to the broader employee population account of the economic conditions and IMIs priorities at the time.
In particular, the Committee considers the strategic plan and the key performance indicators The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed by the associated with it.
Details of the performance measures are included in the structure that sits beneath it for the broader employee population.
While absolute Annual Report each year.
At the time of selecting performance measures, the levels and the provision of certain components, benefits and allowances vary by Committee determines the performance targets that will apply in respect of each geography and level, the overarching themes are: measure.
Factors that the Committee may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts forecasts, economic conditions, individuals areas salaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary basis of responsibilities and the Committees expectations over the relevant period.
and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table: Depending on the nature of the measure e. g. health and safety, the Committee may consistent with executive directors, the leadership group participates in exercise judgement in assessing performance and determining the level of vesting.
annual bonus plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and or local performance depending on their level: Principles for the impact of corporate transactions the leadership group can be considered for awards under the IIP.
At lower The Committee has established principles that determine the way in which levels, employees can also be considered for discretionary share awards with corporate transactions will impact remuneration.
It is clear that any corporate a pre-grant performance test.
IMIs share plans are intended to encourage share transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its shareholders, should not ownership at all levels of the Group.
The all-employee plans described in the have an adverse impact on remuneration.
The principles include the need for policy table are offered on consistent terms to all employees in the geographies management to be treated in a manner consistent with shareholders in respect to where the plans operate: and the rights to equity, that performance should be measured on a like-for-like basis, that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable tax consequences eligibility for and provision of benefits and allowances varies by level and local and that any changes to performance computations will be reviewed by the market practice.
For senior managers, it is standard to receive a company car Companys auditors.
Pension contributions below the Board are set at a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual opportunity Performance Up to a maximum of 200% of salary.
In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT 40%, Group organic revenue growth 20%, cash conversion 20%, strategic and As a percentage of maximum the following amounts are potentially personal objectives 20% and a health and safety underpin.
Divisional payable for the corresponding levels of performance straight-line operating profit and organic revenue growth will replace Group organic between points : revenue for Divisional roles with weightings adjusted accordingly.
Threshold minimum : 0% Payment depends on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over the course of a financial year.
Target: 50% The Committee determines the measures and targets annually to Maximum: 100% ensure alignment with strategy.
Normally these will be a combination of measures linked to the financial and non-financial performance of IMI.
Normal award: Up to 250% of salary In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT growth 50%, ROCE 25% and relative TSR 25%.
Maximum award: 400% of salary to be used in exceptional circumstances only e. g. upon recruitment The release of shares will depend on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over three consecutive If an award above the normal maximum is made, full details will be provided financial years.
in the following years Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee will determine targets and ranges in respect of As a percentage of the award the following amounts are payable for the each award when made.
corresponding levels of performance straight-line between points : Threshold minimum : 25% Maximum: 100% 64 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Service contract policy Other executive director remuneration policies From September 2013 Share ownership guideline Executive directors are subject to guidelines which require them Notice period 12 months notice each way to build a shareholding in IMI worth at least 250% of salary for Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, the Chief Executive, 150% of salary for the Finance Director and of notice benefits and pension.
Directors have a duty to mitigate 200% of salary for Roy Twite.
When assessing compliance with Change of No incremental payments or protection this guideline the Committee reviews both the level of beneficial control share ownership and vested but unexercised share incentive Entitlements on No entitlement if leaving as a bad leaver as set out in awards on a post-tax basis.
termination the contract Salary, contractual benefits and pension allowance as per To the extent an individual does not meet their share ownership notice period guideline, up to half of any annual bonus is automatically Committee power to make phased payments that would be payable in shares and 50% of share awards must be retained.
reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up Appointments to the board Prior to September 2013 Roy Twite Base salary will be set taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Notice period 12 months notice each way The Committee may determine that an initial positioning Payment in lieu At the Committees discretion below market is appropriate and: in those circumstances, of notice realign base salary in the years following appointment, which Change of Bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place may result in an exceptional rate of increase in the short-term.
control within the 24 months prior to termination Any reliance on this principle will be noted at the time of Entitlements on No entitlement if dismissed for cause or resignation appointment.
The theoretical maximum variable pay opportunity termination that can be awarded in one year will be 600% of salary: up to 200% in annual bonus and up to 400% in an IIP award.
As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: continue with the provision of existing remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments: provide benefits, allowances and or payments related to relocation: and or make a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved share plans and or an individual award agreement to provide an immediate interest in company performance.
The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time.
The maximum value of such an award will be 400% of salary.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised in the service contract policy see below.
As noted above, the Committee would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance as well as other associated international mobility terms in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
The Committee may consider buyingout incentive awards that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment up to an equivalent value.
To achieve this, the Committees preference has been to use the existing shareholder approved plans.
When making their decision, the Committee will be informed by the time horizons, value and performance targets associated with any forfeited awards.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Termination and loss of office The primary principle underpinning the determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments for failure will not be made.
Service contracts and plan rules have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the necessary powers to ensure this.
On departure, the Committee will take into account factors including the reason for the executive leaving, performance during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments.
When an executive is terminated for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested share awards lapse.
The following table provides a summary of the treatment of each component of pay applicable for the current executive directors.
It should be noted that the Committee applies judgement in determining whether an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives.
Agreed departure can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement.
Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice.
and benefits Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus: factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall taken into account.
maximum applicable to the relevant individual.
For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination.
In this scenario, the director is entitled to bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year.
IIP Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure.
performance or at the date of cessation of employment.
A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards.
share awards Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be and legacy PSP Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the considered by the Committee.
Committee may enable awards to vest in full.
The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards of unvested and vested but unexercised awards legacy PSP only.
a broadly equivalent nature can be offered.
Legacy Share Invested shares are transferred back on cessation or at the end Similar to agreed departure.
Matching Plan of the investment period.
no awards Matching shares: Performance measured at the end of the from 2015 Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the performance period, or at the date of cessation of employment.
Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards can considered by the Committee.
be offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for these can be disapplied by the grantor.
unvested and vested but unexercised awards.
Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which may Similar to agreed departure.
include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation.
66 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Considerations taken into account when setting our Letters of appointment executive directors remuneration policy The letters of appointment set out key duties, including appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction Employment conditions at IMI and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee management team and require approval for other directorships takes into account a number of factors as noted in the future and potential conflicts of interest.
policy table on pages 61 to 63 and these include the broader There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but employment conditions within IMI.
More specifically: the Chairman is required to give three months notice to the Company and non-executives one month.
Subject to annual the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the election at the AGM, the initial period to first renewal is three Group on a country-by-country basis when assessing the years.
After six years, renewal is considered on an annual basis.
appropriateness of any increases for the Directors: and in making decisions the Committee also takes account of the The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the internal relativities against the reference group and within the AGM and the Companys registered office.
Details of the dates wider leadership group and general employee population.
of appointments and unexpired terms are included in the Corporate Governance Report on page 47.
Details of these comparison metrics will be included every year Appointments to the Board in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Any contractual terms will be consistent with those currently The Committee did not consult with employees when preparing adopted for existing non-executive directors.
The Chairman and the Directors Remuneration Policy for this Report.
non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable pay.
On appointment, fees for non-executive directors will be Shareholder views consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman who the feedback from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation and or is presented and discussed following the AGM.
This feedback housing may be provided.
is sought and collated by the Company Secretary.
The feedback that the Committee receives then informs discussions for the formulation of future policy and subsequent remuneration decisions.
A formal shareholder consultation process was undertaken in the Autumn of 2014 to gather investor feedback on the revised remuneration policy, with the majority of shareholders supportive.
Exceptional circumstances The Committee retains the authority to make payments outside those set out elsewhere in this Policy to the extent they are needed in truly exceptional circumstances and were genuinely unforeseen and thus are of an emergency nature.
This discretion will not be used in any recruitment of an executive director, the policy and limits of which we have described on pages 61 to 63 and if it is used to grant a variable or performance-related award, the terms of that award will be made within the limits of the stated policy on incentive awards.
Any such payments will be disclosed on a timely basis.
Chairman and non-executive directors The table on page 67 summarises the policy with respect to the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors.
No component of remuneration is linked to performance, there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payments and there are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation on early termination.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Future policy table Component Purpose Operation Annual opportunity Base fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are reviewed annually or less frequently where As of 1 January 2014, the Chairmans fee was individuals by offering marketnoted and can be paid in cash and or shares.
fixed at 300,000 and no increase for 2015 competitive fees, commensurate is proposed.
Roberto Quarta has elected to Benchmarked against companies of a similar size 1 to the time commitment and receive 25% of his fees in IMI shares although and complexity.
that is not a Company requirement and may or may not apply to a new Chairman.
When setting fees, factors considered include the level of increase for employees more generally, market data, At 31 December 2014 base fees for the business performance, external economic factors, non-executive directors were 60,000, and no the skills required, time requirements and cost.
increase for 2015 was awarded in the review In respect of the Chairman, IMI also consider the at the end of 2014. individuals profile and experience.
Additional To reflect the additional time Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid in cash Fee levels in place at 31 December 2014 and fees required when an individual chairs and or shares.
subject to review in 2015: a committee or is appointed as The Chairman is not eligible to receive additional fees.
Committee Chairman: 15,000 senior independent director.
Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner Senior independent director: 10,000 consistent with base fees see above.
Benefits To reimburse reasonable business Reimbursement in cash on production of receipts or Expenses incurred by the Chairman and expenses.
other proof of payment of business expense.
non-executive directors in undertaking their role are reimbursed as a business expense and are not a personal benefit in kind.
Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment.
1 25% of the Chairmans after tax fee was used to purchase shares in the market.
These shares were then transferred to the Chairman.
All dealing charges were paid for by the Chairman.
