66 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Considerations taken into account when setting our Letters of appointment executive directors remuneration policy The letters of appointment set out key duties, including appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction Employment conditions at IMI and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee management team and require approval for other directorships takes into account a number of factors as noted in the future and potential conflicts of interest.
policy table on pages 61 to 63 and these include the broader There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but employment conditions within IMI.
More specifically: the Chairman is required to give three months notice to the Company and non-executives one month.
Subject to annual the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the election at the AGM, the initial period to first renewal is three Group on a country-by-country basis when assessing the years.
After six years, renewal is considered on an annual basis.
appropriateness of any increases for the Directors: and in making decisions the Committee also takes account of the The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the internal relativities against the reference group and within the AGM and the Companys registered office.
Details of the dates wider leadership group and general employee population.
of appointments and unexpired terms are included in the Corporate Governance Report on page 47.
Details of these comparison metrics will be included every year Appointments to the Board in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Any contractual terms will be consistent with those currently The Committee did not consult with employees when preparing adopted for existing non-executive directors.
The Chairman and the Directors Remuneration Policy for this Report.
non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable pay.
On appointment, fees for non-executive directors will be Shareholder views consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman who the feedback from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation and or is presented and discussed following the AGM.
This feedback housing may be provided.
is sought and collated by the Company Secretary.
The feedback that the Committee receives then informs discussions for the formulation of future policy and subsequent remuneration decisions.
A formal shareholder consultation process was undertaken in the Autumn of 2014 to gather investor feedback on the revised remuneration policy, with the majority of shareholders supportive.
Exceptional circumstances The Committee retains the authority to make payments outside those set out elsewhere in this Policy to the extent they are needed in truly exceptional circumstances and were genuinely unforeseen and thus are of an emergency nature.
This discretion will not be used in any recruitment of an executive director, the policy and limits of which we have described on pages 61 to 63 and if it is used to grant a variable or performance-related award, the terms of that award will be made within the limits of the stated policy on incentive awards.
Any such payments will be disclosed on a timely basis.
Chairman and non-executive directors The table on page 67 summarises the policy with respect to the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors.
No component of remuneration is linked to performance, there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payments and there are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation on early termination.
