PAGE TITLE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Over recent years, we have made changes to our remuneration policy to maintain alignment with our evolving strategic priorities.
We continued to strengthen this alignment during 2014 in line with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy introduced at last years AGM, which can be found in our 2013 Annual Report available on our website, through some additional changes to the measures in our incentive schemes and by further increasing the focus of our executives pay towards the long-term.
Whilst the external environment continues to be challenging, our good performance in 2014 resulted in an annual bonus pay-out for Executive Directors of 69 per cent.
Performance against earnings targets, adjusted for the effects of the stock optimisation programme, was strong: and volume and net revenue targets, again adjusted for the effects of the stock optimisation programme, were partially met.
However, this recent progress has yet to be seen in the outcomes of the long-term schemes: there will be minimal vesting of LTIP awards David Haines Chairman made in November 2011 and no vesting of SMS awards made in February 2012.
Our remuneration strategy is focused on Subject to shareholder approval, from 2015, we plan to remove the SMS for our most senior employees.
Whilst the SMS has supporting our business strategy in the been an effective scheme to promote share ownership across the drive to maximise long-term sustainable Company, we have taken heed of some investors opposition to shareholder returns.
two long-term incentive schemes and we believe we can achieve the same alignment and retention more simply.
We have, therefore, Members consolidated the SMS opportunity into the LTIP and, in order to preserve the retention effect, will require that half of all earned bonus David Haines Chairman Berge Setrakian is deferred in shares for three years.
An additional holding period of to 5 February 2014 Ken Burnett two years will also apply to vested LTIPs.
Mark Williamson Michael Herlihy to 5 February 2014 Susan Murray We also propose to rebalance the weightings of measures in the Karen Witts to 5 February 2014 LTIP to place greater emphasis on the measures by which executives from 6 February 2014 can drive the success of the business, increasing the weight in Malcolm Wyman earnings growth and reducing TSR.
The Committee continues to review incentive measures annually and for the financial year to 30 September 2015 it proposes to introduce cash conversion Trevor Williams Secretary alongside earnings, revenue, growth brand performance and Decisions for 2014 market share measures to reflect the balance of our strategy.
remuneration review and recommendation to shareholders to Oliver Tant was appointed last year on a below-market salary with an withdraw future awards to Executive Directors under the Share intention to raise his pay, over time, to market levels contingent on Matching Scheme SMS with the previous benefit consolidated performance.
We believe this mechanism is in the Companys and, into the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : therefore, shareholders best interests.
Following a strong first year, 2014 annual bonus payment calculated to be 69 per cent of the Committee considered it appropriate to bring Mr Tants salary the maximum opportunity: closer to the market and, therefore, increased it.
LTIP granted in November 2011 partially vested in During the course of the year, we received feedback on proposed November 2014: changes from a number of our larger investors, which we considered carefully.
As a Committee our role is to balance these individual SMS granted in February 2012 will lapse in February 2015: and investor perspectives with our overall responsibility to ensure that in relation to the retirement of Robert Dyrbus, confirming all remuneration arrangements enable us to attract, motivate and elements of remuneration to be actioned in line with policy with retain employees of the requisite quality to optimise sustainable no discretions exercised in his favour.
Material changes for 2015 Subject to shareholder approval, implementation of the revised remuneration policy, including: the withdrawal of the SMS for Executive Directors: David Haines amendment to mandatory deferral of bonus to require that half Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of any bonus paid be deferred into shares and released after three years: selected increases in variable pay opportunity: introduction of a cash conversion measure to the annual bonus: introduction of two-year holding period for vested LTIP awards, in respect of awards granted in February 2015 onwards: and strengthening of claw back provisions.
46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee Governance meeting allows the members to meet without any Executive Director The Role of the Remuneration Committee or other manager being present.
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.
During the year, Iain Napier Company Chairman to 5 February 2014, Mark Williamson Company Chairman from 5 February The Committees principal function is to support the Groups strategy 2014, Alison Cooper Chief Executive, Oliver Tant Chief Financial by ensuring that its delivery is incentivised by the remuneration Officer and John Downing Company Secretary were consulted, policy, described below.
It also determines the specific remuneration including to provide a performance context to target setting, and package, including service contracts and pension arrangements, invited to attend, where appropriate.
Trevor Williams Deputy for each Executive Director and our most senior executives.
Company Secretary also attended each meeting as secretary The Committee held six meetings during the financial year.
The Committees responsibilities include: The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on ensuring the Groups remuneration arrangements support its market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and strategy, align with its values and drive performance: our employee share plans.
Their attendance ensured the Committee maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it the business environment of the countries in which we operate, then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high-calibre individuals: Executive Directors and our most senior executives.
aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests of longNo one is allowed to participate in any matter directly concerning the term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is fair but details of his or her own remuneration or conditions of service.
not excessive: This Policy Report has been prepared in accordance with the assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large and as it relates to the Remuneration Committee: Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the making recommendations to the Board in respect of our requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Chairmans fees: Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how setting targets for the performance-related elements of the principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration, remuneration packages: as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these and of our employee share plans: and governance rules and best practice provisions and will detail in the ensuring appropriate independent advisers are appointed to 2015 report how it applied the provisions of the revised Code which provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
applies to the Company from its financial year commencing on 1 October 2014.
The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of the role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on the The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on the Companys website.
audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 66 and we Directors which we see as fundamental in ensuring Executive have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report.
Directors and senior executives remuneration is set by people who are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Policy Report Our strategy and business model further explained on page 2 drive our remuneration policy.
The consistent and successful application of our strategy, incentivised by both shortand long-term performance measures, has delivered significant returns to shareholders and the measures proposed within the revised policy focus on building on this track record.
To continue to deliver our strategy we need high-calibre individuals with the skill set and experience appropriate to drive the performance of a Group of the scale and complexity of Imperial Tobacco.
Our policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, base salary with significant weighting towards performance-based elements the measures of which incentivise and support the delivery of our strategy whilst also reflecting individual, functional and corporate performance.
We aim to set and rigorously apply targets that are both stretching and achievable.
Whilst our incentive plans provide for the Committee to exercise discretion in the determination of vesting, this is only used in exceptional circumstances and if exercised will be disclosed, at the latest, in the report on implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year in question.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors It is intended that the Remuneration Policy set out in this Report will, if approved, for the purposes of section 226D 6 b of the Act, take effect immediately after the AGM on 28 January 2015.
Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Salary Attract and retain Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee No prescribed high-performing taking into account each Executive Directors performance together maximum annual individuals reflecting with changes in role and responsibility.
the market value of Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October.
The Committee takes role and the Executive into account each The Committee considers pay data for both UK companies and those Directors skills, Executive Directors operating overseas.
For the UK we compare against listed companies experience and performance, together closest to us by FTSE ranking and excluding those in the financial performance.
with changes in role services sector and we also reference the FTSE 30 and FTSE 50 and responsibility and excluding financial sector companies.
Our international comparator considers general group includes companies of a similar size, broad sector focus and increases for the UK global footprint.
These comparators serve to define a playing field wider management within which an individuals rewards need to be positioned.
determining individual remuneration, the primary factors taken into account are individual performance, the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability and experience.
Benefits Competitive benefits Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, life The level of benefit taking into account insurance and permanent health insurance which are provided provision is fixed.
the market value of directly or through the Company pension scheme.
the role and benefits Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
offered to the wider Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if UK management when applicable.
Annual Incentivise delivery At least 60% of the annual bonus will be linked to key financial metrics 200% of base salary Bonus of Group strategic and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.
or such lower sum Plan objectives and as determined by Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance.
performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Half of any annual bonus paid would be in deferred shares to be held for a minimum of three years with the other half paid in cash.
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw back provisions are in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus.
48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Share Incentivise the delivery It is intended that, subject to shareholder approval of the revised Subject to shareholder Matching of Group strategic Remuneration Policy, there will be no further awards to Executive approval of the revised Scheme targets.
Promote Directors under the SMS.
However, outstanding awards will vest policy no future awards share ownership or not in line with the performance conditions and other terms of will be made to worldwide across the the relevant award.
Imperial Tobacco Awards granted February 2014 Maximum match 1:1 of management team.
Plus, in Awards have a performance period of three financial years and the respect of the February level of vesting is based on financial measures with underpins.
2014 award, shares In respect of each performance element, performance below the equivalent to the value threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance of the dividend roll-up.
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
Claw back provisions are in place.
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting.
Awards granted February 2012 and February 2013 Awards were based on an earnings per share EPS performance condition only.
Long Term Incentivise long-term Awards to be granted during or after January 2015 Chief Executive Officer: Incentive Group financial 350% of base salary.
Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at Plan performance in line the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are Other Executive with the Groups based 20% on relative total shareholder return TSR vs a peer group Directors: 250% of base strategy and longand 80% on financial measures.
salary or such lower term shareholder sum as determined by In respect of each performance element, performance below the returns.
threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance Executive Directors element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance Plus shares equivalent interests with those between the threshold and maximum targets.
to the value of the of long-term dividend roll-up.
Claw back and malus provisions are in place.
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two-year holding requirement.
Awards granted November 2013 Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are based 50% on TSR vs a peer group and 50% on financial measures with underpins.
In respect of each performance element, performance below the threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Awards granted before February 2013 Prior to February 2013 awards were based 50% on an EPS performance condition and 50% on relative TSR performance conditions only.
It is intended that all awards will vest or not in line with the performance conditions and other terms of the relevant award.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other Current policy is for a high-performing employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK the defined contribution and Executive Directors.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October cash supplement limit 2010 are members of the defined benefit section whereas Executive of 26% of salary.
Directors joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership Existing members of the of the defined contribution section.
Executives have the option to defined benefit section receive a cash supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund, or in lieu have a cash in lieu of of accrual on pensionable salary above the Funds earnings cap, or in pension accrual limit lieu of future service accrual.
Members of the defined benefit section of the Fund accrue pension at a rate between 1 47th and 1 60th of pensionable salary.
Further detail is provided on page 56.
The rules of the Fund detail the pension benefits which members can receive on retirement, death or leaving service.
The Committee may amend the form of any Executive Directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of an Executive Directors pension provision.
Committee Discretions Relating to Variable Pay Schemes The Committee will operate each of the Companys incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following: who participates in the plan: the timing of grant of an award and or payment: the size of an award subject to the maxima set out in plan rules and the policy table above : the choice of performance measures and targets for a new award under each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above : the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration of whether and, if so, how, adjustments should be made subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the revised target being no less challenging than the original target : discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
In relation to the Annual Bonus, SMS and LTIP, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which cause the Committee to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended.
Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting policy over the performance period.
Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Directors Remuneration Report and, if appropriate, be the subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys SAYE plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules.
Payments from Existing Awards Subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this Report.
Performance Measure Selection The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually and considers the combination of measures in the LTIP, ie adjusted EPS, net revenue and relative TSR, remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group.
TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for outperformance of sector peers.
EPS provides strong line-of-sight for Executive Directors and supports the Groups long-term strategy.
Net revenue supports the Companys focus on organic growth.
Performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment.
50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Other employees are eligible to participate in performance-led annual bonus plans.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP c. 50 individuals and the majority of members of the Corporate Management Group are eligible to participate in the SMS c. 1,100 individuals.
Total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: fixed remuneration only ie salary, benefits and pension.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Note that Imperial Tobacco does not have a stated target for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Executive Directors Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements normally continue until the Executive Directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one years notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor any other entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and 5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of any termination including the individuals performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses would be taken into account in every case: our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
For Executive Directors leaving employment with Imperial Tobacco for specified reasons including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control annual bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of both the SMS and LTIP, outstanding awards vest if an Executive Director leaves for specified reasons as detailed above.
In these circumstances an Executive Directors awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been held and the achievement of the performance criteria.
The awards will vest either on termination of the Executive Directors employment with the Group or, for awards granted under the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 or later, at the normal vesting date, as the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
If the termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, an Executive Directors awards lapse entirely.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Recruitment of Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the Remuneration Committee.
Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the 55,000 fee received from this position in the financial year.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Fees Attract and retain Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board after No prescribed high-performing recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October.
of fees applied to Aggregate annual fees The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee consider pay data purchase of shares to limited to 2.0 million by at comparator companies of similar scale.
align interests with Articles of Association.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit and those of shareholders.
Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate in the Groups employee share plans.
Benefits Travel to the Travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a Grossed-up costs Companys taxable benefit.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 4 February 2014.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Shareholding Guidelines Whilst placing significant weight on our annual performance, our remuneration policy aligns the long-term interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long-term.
To support this alignment, we have share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to three times their respective base salary.
Other senior managers are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Consultation with Employees Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared with Other Employees The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Remuneration Committee believes is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility.
The key difference in policy is the increased emphasis on longterm performance related pay for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is then considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration policy review.
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are made to the Remuneration Policy, for example the proposed changes to our policy detailed above, the Remuneration Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these changes.
How the Committee implemented the Remuneration Policy for Financial Year Ended 30 September 2014 Linking Remuneration with Strategy We focus on delivering high-quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows.
Ensuring that our sales growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term returns to shareholders.
Alignment with our Sustainable sales growth is at the heart of our strategy.
This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of Strategy sales growth within our variable remuneration both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Stretching performance targets incentivise the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value.
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus.
Profitability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Cash conversion will be added as a measure for the annual bonus in the coming year.
Alignment with our To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Shareholders Companys shares through both direct shareholdings supported by shareholding requirements for senior executives and through our share plans with the value of the Corporate Management Groups overall remuneration being heavily dependent on the performance of our share price.
Attracting and Retaining Our Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure a high-quality pool of talented employees at all levels who are the Right People incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging them to take undue risks.
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance-based elements.
Implementing Executive Policy and Practice In implementing the Companys Remuneration Policy as detailed on pages 64 to 69 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 available on our website, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale and operating in a similar sector.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a playing field within which an individuals rewards need to be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, his or her ability, experience and performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with more than 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Single Total Figure of Remuneration for each Director Audited 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Share Share 2014 2013 Salary Salary Taxable Taxable Annual Annual plans plans Pension Pension 2014 2013 1 2 3 4 000 and fees and fees benefits benefits bonus bonus vesting vesting benefits benefits Total Total Executive Directors Alison Cooper, Chief Executive 920 920 16 16 1,270 626 151 293 449 2,650 2,011 5 Oliver Tant, Chief Financial Officer 575 16 595 150 1,336 6 Robert Dyrbus, Finance Director 63 665 2 27 66 339 58 233 189 1,264 Matthew Phillips, Corporate Affairs Director 435 435 22 11 375 185 26 134 215 992 846 1,993 2,020 56 54 2,306 1,150 177 635 897 5,167 4,121 Non-Executive Directors 7,8 Mark Williamson, Chairman 338 116 3 2 341 118 7 Iain Napier, Chairman 156 450 2 2 158 452 Ken Burnett 73 73 28 29 101 102 8 David Haines 86 73 11 4 97 77 8 Michael Herlihy 96 93 3 2 99 95 Susan Murray 73 73 1 1 74 74 9 Berge Setrakian 25 73 16 38 41 111 10 Karen Witts 47 1 48 8 Malcolm Wyman 98 98 5 15 103 113 992 1,049 70 93 1,062 1,142 Payments to former Executive Directors 6 Robert Dyrbus 102 3 106 147 358 1 Taxable benefits principally include an allowance in lieu of, or the provision of, a company car 15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant and 20,227 in respect of Matthew Phillips, fuel and health insurance.
Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to Board meetings held at the Companys registered office.
2 Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2014.
3 Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year.
Comparator figures represent the actual value of awards vesting.
4 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on page 56.
5 Oliver Tant was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013.
6 Robert Dyrbus retired from the Board on 5 November 2013 but remained an employee until 31 December 2013.
7 Mark Williamson succeeded Iain Napier as Chairman on 5 February 2014.
8 Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of 25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 20,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and 25,000 in respect of the Audit Committee.
Mark Williamsons fee as Deputy Chairman was 100,000 per annum.
9 Berge Setrakian retired from the Board on 5 February 2014.
10 Karen Witts was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014.
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed up for tax where expenses represent a taxable benefit.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.
In particular, it provides information on the extent to which annual performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and the extent to which three-year performance conditions have been satisfied for each share plan, namely the SMS and LTIP.
Determination of 2014 Annual Bonus Despite a challenging external environment, management delivered a good performance in the year to 30 September 2014, strengthening our brands and market footprint, increasing cash conversion and considerably reducing net debt.
As a result, we are a stronger business and delivered a 10 per cent increase in dividend.
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2014, is calculated at 69 per cent of maximum opportunity.
The Committee believes this to be an appropriate reflection of the performance and progress made through the year.
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Performance against individual measures is set out below.
Maximum Actual percentage percentage Performance target Assessment of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Performance is measured based on underlying EPS growth, adjusted to constant currency remove the impact of the stock optimisation programme, at constant currency.
Increases in topline revenues together with a stronger focus on cost optimisation and cash conversion provided growth in underlying EPS of 6.8 per cent against a maximum target of 6 per cent.
50 50 1 Net revenue growth Performance is measured based on underlying net revenue growth, adjusted to remove the impact of the stock optimisation programme.
A focus on portfolio management, pricing and innovation supported underlying growth of 1.6 per cent against a context of market volume declines of 4 per cent.
Whilst a strong performance in relative terms, this was some way behind our maximum target of 4 per cent growth.
20 8 Volume growth in Performance is measured based on underlying volume growth of our Growth 1 growth brands Brands relative to the market, adjusted to remove the impact of the stock optimisation programme.
Underlying Growth Brands volumes increased by 10.9 per cent relative to the market, further building the strength of our key brand assets.
This strong performance was against a maximum target of 11.8 per cent relative growth.
10 9 1 Non-financial Non-financial measures consisted of aggregate market share targets for Returns and Growth Markets.
We showed resilience in Returns Markets, with good share performance in a number of markets.
However, market size declines in some of our biggest markets impacted the aggregate measure and the threshold target was not met.
In our Growth Markets, share was up by 0.1 per cent against a maximum target of 0.6 per cent.
20 2 Achievement of bonus for 2014 100 69 1 Subject to an EPS underpin which was exceeded in all cases.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to claw back during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Claw back may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Share Matching Scheme SMS awards were made to the Chief Executive and Corporate Affairs Director in February 2012 which will vest in February 2015 based on an EPS performance condition measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2014 as set out below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting level of percentage performance of award vesting vesting Performance target 3% 6% average annual growth over Adjusted EPS UK inflation 0% 50% 100% 0 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards were made to the Chief Executive and Corporate Affairs Director in November 2011 which will vest in November 2014 based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage Performance target performance of award of award of award Adjusted EPS 3% 10% average annual growth over UK inflation 0% 6.25 50 0 1 TSR against comparator group Threshold exceeds bottom 6 companies 3 companies Maximum exceeds bottom 9 companies exceeded 7.5 25 0 TSR against FTSE 100 Threshold exceeds 50% of companies 50% of companies Maximum when 75% of companies exceeded exceeded 7.5 25 7.5 Achievement of LTIP for 2014 100 7.5 1 The companies comprising the comparator group are: AB InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc. SABMiller PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually, we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2014, no Sharesave options vested in respect of Executive Directors.
Total Pension Entitlements Audited The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund.
Robert Dyrbus stepped down from the Board on 5 November 2013 and retired from the Company on 31 December 2013.
Oliver Tant joined the Board as an Executive Director on 1 October 2013 and is a member of the defined contribution section of the Fund and receives benefits in line with the Companys policy.
Robert Dyrbus opted out of Fund membership in respect of future service accrual from 2006, as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
Alison Cooper, Matthew Phillips and Oliver Tant have not opted out of future service accrual.
Robert Dyrbus was in receipt of a salary supplement of 35 per cent of salary, which was in lieu of future pensionable service accrual and arose because his accrued pension on 6 April 2006 was well below the maximum pension of two thirds of salary.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are also in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60th with a 50 per cent spouses pension, and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips each receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
Oliver Tant is also in receipt of a salary supplement equal to 12 per cent of his basic salary.
In addition, under the rules of the defined contribution section of the Fund, Oliver Tant has opted to limit total contributions Member and Company to the Fund to a level which should not result in him incurring an Annual Allowance charge.
As a result, any additional Company contribution which would have been due to be paid to the Fund, had Oliver Tant not opted to cap contributions, is paid to him as a salary supplement and is included in the figures in the table below.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
Robert Dyrbus started to draw his pension on 13 November 2012, as is permitted under the Fund rules.
The accrued pension figure at 30 September 2014 and the value of total pension benefits at 30 September 2014 represent the benefits accrued as at 13 November 2012 and are consistent with those disclosed at 30 September 2013.
Between 13 November 2012 and the date when he left the Company, Robert Dyrbus was a Flexible Benefits member of the Fund.
However, no additional pension was accrued over this period.
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2012 13 tax year.
His accrued pension was reduced by 4,538.19 a year to offset this tax payment.
This reduction to pension is reflected in the above accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2014 it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2014.
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Single Figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Payment in lieu of retirement Value x 20 benefits over year net Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Pensionable i. e. pension of directors pension Normal at start at end Accrued pension Age at service at supplement contributions benefits retirement of year of year 000 30 09 2014 30 09 2014 01 10 2013 30 9 2014 000 000 000 age 000 000 Alison Cooper 48 15 152 168 86 207 293 60 3,040 3,360 1 Robert Dyrbus 61 N A 331 331 53 nil 53 60 6,620 6,620 Matthew Phillips 43 14 82 90 28 106 134 60 1,640 1,800 2,3 Oliver Tant N A N AN AN AN AN AN A N A N AN A 1 Retired as a Director on 5 November 2013.
Therefore, figures relate to the period between 1 October 2013 and 5 November 2013.
2 Appointed as a Director on 1 October 2013.
3 Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
He received an employer pension contribution into the defined contribution section of 66,000 made up of 26,000 Company contribution plus 40,000 in respect of a salary sacrifice by Mr Tant in lieu of his personal contribution.
In addition a salary supplement of 69,000, representing 12 per cent of Mr Tant's basic salary, was paid to him together with an additional supplement of 54,500 in lieu of Company pension contributions which were not made to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in order to maintain Mr Tant's total contributions within the Annual Allowance for pensions savings.
Payment for Director Retiring Audited Robert Dyrbus stepped down from the Board on 5 November 2013 and retired from the Company on 31 December 2013.
In accordance with the policy in force at the date of his retirement, Robert Dyrbus bonus in respect of the 2013 financial year, as detailed in the single total figure of remuneration table, was paid on 16 December 2013.
His bonus in respect of the proportion of the 2014 financial year prior to his retirement will, subject to satisfaction of the appropriate performance conditions, be paid on 16 December 2014.
In accordance with our policy at the time the awards were granted, vesting of his outstanding SMS and LTIP awards was based on performance measured to 30 September 2013 and pro-rated for time served to his date of retirement.
Iain Napier, Berge Setrakian and Susan Murray also retired from the Board during the 2014 financial year and were only paid to the date of their retirement as detailed in the single total figure of remuneration table and received no compensation etc for loss of office.
Recruitment of New Executive Director Oliver Tant joined the Board as an Executive Director on 1 October 2013 and succeeded Robert Dyrbus as Chief Financial Officer on 5 November 2013.
He joined the Board on a salary of 575,000, a maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of salary with any payment above 100 per cent of salary deferred in shares for three years, the opportunity to participate in the SMS, an LTIP award of 150 per cent of salary, and a defined contribution pension of 26 per cent of salary.
As with previous Executive Director appointments, his salary was set below the market and some way below that of his predecessor.
Subject to continued strong performance and reflecting his increasing experience, the Committee will be increasing his salary towards market levels over time.
Notwithstanding that this may result in future percentage salary increases being above Company and market norms, the Committee strongly believes this approach is in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees 1 Chief Executive All Employees to Percentage Percentage 30 September change change 2014 2014 vs 2013 2014 vs 2013 Salary 920,000 0 1.5 Benefits 16,000 0 0 Bonus 1,269,600 103 57 1 Based on members of our Corporate Management Group.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 902 1,004 -10.2 Dividend paid in the year 1,149 1,065 7.9 Share buyback 341 500 -31.8 1 Excludes employers social security costs.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share Interests and Incentives Audited All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Companys shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess of their requirement or being within five years of appointment.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Options held Unvested Vested but and Unvested subject to subject to and subject Vested Shareholding Current Owned holding performance to continued but not required shareholding Requirement 1 2 outright period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary met Executive Directors Alison Cooper 161,708 403 325,150 440 300 468 Yes Oliver Tant 829 36,209 441 300 4 In role for less than five years Matthew Phillips 43,259 94,873 459 300 265 In role for less than five years Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 8,241 N A Ken Burnett 2,591 N A David Haines 647 N A Michael Herlihy 4,624 N A Susan Murray 3,473 N A Karen Witts 131 N A Malcolm Wyman 3,559 N A 1 Based on a share price of 26.64 being the closing price on 30 September 2014.
2 Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year Audited Awards were made in the financial year ending 30 September 2014 under both the SMS and LTIP.
Detail of these awards is provided below.
Share Matching Scheme Executive Directors were provided the opportunity in February 2014 to invest in the SMS.
The resulting SMS awards granted and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number Amount of Threshold 1 2 of shares Face value eligible bonus vesting End of performance period Performance conditions Alison Cooper 40,000 920,000 100% 50% 30 September 2016 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 50% 3 year net revenue growth Matthew Phillips 16,076 369,748 100% 50% 30 September 2016 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 50% 3 year net revenue growth 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 17 February 2014 being 23.00 per share.
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Note: Oliver Tant was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013, received no eligible bonus and was, therefore, not eligible to participate.
Performance Criterion Net Revenue Growth Element Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 7% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 7% per annum or higher 100% In order to ensure that net revenue growth is not overly incentivised at the expense of profitability, an EPS underpin applies in respect of the net revenue growth element for the Executive Directors.
This requires a minimum level of adjusted EPS growth to be achieved in order for any awards under the net revenue growth element to vest the EPS underpin.
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Performance Criterion EPS Element Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 5% per annum nil 5% per annum 25% 5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 10% per annum or higher 100% In order to ensure that adjusted EPS growth is not achieved without due regard to the capital required to achieve such growth, an underpin based on Return on Invested Capital ROIC will apply in respect of the EPS element for the Executive Directors.
ROIC is a measure of profitability versus the Companys total utilised capital including goodwill and so is particularly useful to incentivise an appropriate approach towards acquisitions.
The ROIC measure excludes the effect on goodwill and acquired intangibles of exchange rate movements and changes from amortisation and impairment.
The ROIC underpin will require that a minimum level of ROIC will have to be achieved in order for any awards under the EPS growth element to vest the ROIC underpin.
Under the rules of the SMS, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Long Term Incentive Plan In line with the policy then in effect, Executive Directors were granted LTIP awards in November 2013.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nil Amount of Threshold Weighting 1 2 cost options Face value base salary End of performance period vesting of award Performance conditions Alison Cooper 77,246 1,840,000 200% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth Oliver Tant 36,209 862,500 150% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth Matthew 22,827 543,750 125% 30 September 2016 25% 50% TSR relative to bespoke Phillips comparator group 25% 25% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 25% 3 year net revenue growth 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 6 November 2013 being 23.82 per share.
Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and is applied to 50 per cent of the LTIP.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule detailed for the SMS above.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion is used for 25 per cent of the LTIP award.
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Remuneration Decisions Taken in 2013 14 Salary Each year the Committee sets base salaries for the next financial year after consideration of individual and Company performance and market data for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect an amendment to an individuals base salary would have on his or her total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
This years review is intended to bring our executives salaries closer to the Committees intended positioning and follows the approaches previously outlined to shareholders.
As communicated on their appointment, both Alison Coopers and Oliver Tants salaries were set significantly below the market levels and their predecessors with the intention to increase them over time and dependent on performance.
For Alison Cooper we followed this approach in 2011 and 2012 but a salary freeze in 2013 means that after four years her salary remains below her predecessor.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is right to continue to correct this.
Based on Oliver Tants performance in his first year the Committee increased his salary to move him closer to his peers with the intention that a further increase next year, subject to his continued strong performance, would close the gap.
Matthew Phillips has held the role of Corporate Affairs Director for two years.
It is the view of the Committee that his current salary does not appropriately reflect the true breadth or contribution of either the role or the individual and the Committee, therefore, determined to increase his salary to reflect performance.
Salary Salary Percentage 2013 14 2014 15 Change Alison Cooper 920,000 965,000 4.9 Oliver Tant 575,000 630,000 9.6 Matthew Phillips 435,000 455,000 4.6 Annual Bonus Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance.
We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Groups annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets.
Following a review of the remuneration policy, the Committee is recommending to shareholders the following amendments to the maximum bonus potentials: Proposed Current maximum maximum percentage percentage of salary of salary Alison Cooper 200 200 Oliver Tant 200 150 Matthew Phillips 175 125 Half of any bonus paid will be in the form of shares deferred for a three-year period: the remaining half will be paid in cash.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below.
Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 35% Cash conversion Commercially confidential 25% Volume growth in Growth Brands Outperformance of market growth 15% Non-financial Market share targets 15% Individual objectives Commercially confidential 10% At this point, the above targets are considered commercially confidential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be provided retrospectively in the 2015 Annual Report.
The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be confidential but will review this on a year-by-year basis.
60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Share Plan Awards It is intended that, subject to shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, there will be no further awards to Executive Directors under the SMS with the historic award levels being consolidated into the Groups LTIP.
The Committee is recommending the following maximum LTIP awards: Proposed Current maximum maximum opportunity opportunity percentage percentage 1 of salary of salary Alison Cooper 350 300 Oliver Tant 250 250 Matthew Phillips 210 210 1 Includes the previous award level under the SMS.
To allow for the changes to be considered by shareholders it is intended that the award which would normally have been granted in November 2014 will be delayed and granted in January or February 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval of the revised policy these awards will be at the revised maximum levels.
The awards will be subject to performance conditions as summarised below.
Weighting Performance conditions in LTIP Adjusted EPS growth 50% TSR 20% Net revenue growth 30% When setting the performance criteria, the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
For both the adjusted EPS and net revenue targets, the performance criteria will use growth in absolute terms rather than relative to inflation and apply them to a three-year performance period.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion will be used for 50 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proposed vesting schedule for the awards to be granted in January or February 2015 is set out below: Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including more than 40 companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM At the 2014 AGM a small number of shareholders expressed concerns with various aspects of our remuneration policy.
These concerns included the use of two long-term plans i. e. the SMS and LTIP and the potential, in limited circumstances, to make awards in excess of the Groups normal policy in order to recruit the best candidate.
Prior to the AGM and following dialogue with our major shareholders and their representative bodies, the Committee issued a clarificatory statement on the Companys website in respect of Executive Director recruitment in December 2013.
At the AGM held in 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage Percentage cast excluding cast including Resolution votes for Votes against against votes withheld Votes withheld votes withheld Directors Remuneration Report 694,645,923 92.61 55,397,807 7.39 750,043,730 11,576,464 761,620,194 Directors Remuneration Policy 664,057,447 88.04 90,242,108 11.96 754,299,555 7,320,638 761,620,193 Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
Advice Provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS is retained, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only material, external adviser.
NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up to date with new developments and evolving best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
NBS parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group.
Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of NBS advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group does not impact on NBS independence.
During the year, NBS was paid fees of 292,856.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR-related matters.
During the year, it was paid fees of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not used for remuneration-related advice during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group: Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Groups employee share plans:  LLP PwC, our Auditors, performs agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year, PwC was paid 1,750 in respect of services to the Committee: and Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our Remuneration Policy for executives.
During the year, it was paid fees of 52,255 for these services.
Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group.
All of these advisers were appointed by the Committee, which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee.
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Other Information Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2014, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 26.64 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 21.74 to 27.74.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
Award Dates Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
Review of Past Performance The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2014.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a six-year period.
Total Return Indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 200 175 150 125 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 Change in Chief Executive Remuneration 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2010 2009 1 1 1 2,3 Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Gareth Davis Gareth Davis Total remuneration 000 2,686 2,011 2,793 2,737 1,347 5,453 5,099 Annual Bonus as a percentage of maximum 69 34 51.2 33.1 84.7 84.7 85.2 Shares vesting as a percentage of maximum 5.8 nil 58.0 71.6 80.8 46.93 74.5 1 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
2 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
3 Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
Operating Executive excluding Executive Directors 000 2014 2013 Base salary 2,143 2,161 Benefits 160 190 Pension salary supplement 218 152 Bonus 1,291 716 1 LTIP annual vesting 90 nil 2 SMS annual vesting nil nil 3,902 3,219 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 11,073,194 2013: 8,954,612.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2014 Audited 000 2014 2013 Short-term employee benefits 9,575 7,431 Post-employment benefits 1,186 1,050 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 833 2,140 11,594 6,341 The credit in 2013 is principally due to the non-achievement during the year of performance conditions which were previously expected to be achieved.
Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary.
Employee Benefit Trusts Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at 30 September 2014, we held 78,909,137 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at Surplus 01 10 2013 during year during year 30 09 2014 30 09 2013 shortfall Executive Trust 718,756 nil 19,862 698,894 740,632 41,738 2001 Trust 2,542,675 2,000,000 1,084,456 3,458,219 4,315,056 856,837 Share Plan Flow Rates The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
Since demerger in 1996, the cumulative number of shares under option and awards granted pursuant to all of the Companys employee share plans totals 3.6 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital including shares held in treasury.
Summary of Options and Awards Granted Cumulative options and awards granted Options and awards granted during the year as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital including those held in treasury including those held in treasury Limit on awards 10% in 10 years 1.9 0.2 5% in 5 years 0.9 0.2 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.3 0.1 For the Board David Haines Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 November 2014 64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES CONTENTS Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 66 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 115 Consolidated Income Statement 72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Balance Sheet 116 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 73 Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 117 Consolidated Balance Sheet 74 Principal Undertakings 120 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 75 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 76 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies 77 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 82 3 Segment Information 83 4 Profit Before Taxation 85 5 Restructuring Costs 85 6 Directors and Employees 86 7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 86 8 Taxation 87 9 Dividends 88 10 Earnings Per Share 88 11 Intangible Assets 89 12 Property, Plant and Equipment 91 13 Joint Ventures 92 14 Inventories 93 15 Trade and Other Receivables 94 16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 94 17 Trade and Other Payables 94 18 Borrowings 95 19 Financial Risk Factors 96 20 Derivative Financial Instruments 101 21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 104 22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 105 23 Provisions 109 24 Share Capital 110 25 Share Schemes 110 26 Treasury Shares 112 27 Commitments 112 28 Legal Proceedings 112 29 Acquisitions 113 30 Net Debt 113 31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 114 32 Changes in Non-controlling Interests 114 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 65
