Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which Shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2015 AGM on May 13, 2015.
The Policy will come into effect on this date, if approved by Shareholders, and it is intended that the Policy will remain effective for a period of three years.
A summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy is provided in the following table: Executive Director Remuneration Policy table Framework used to assess performance and provision for the Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity recovery of sums paid Base salary To provide an appropriate Base salaries are normally reviewed The current salaries of the n a level of fixed remuneration annually, typically with effect from Executive Directors are disclosed to attract and retain January 1. in the Annual Report on executives of the calibre Remuneration.
Salary levels increases take account of: required to deliver the To avoid setting expectations of Companys strategy.
The competitive practice in the Executive Directors and other Companys remuneration peer group.
employees, no maximum salary is set under the remuneration policy.
However, salary increases will Salary increases awarded across normally be aligned with increases the Group as a whole.
awarded across the Group as a whole.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of individual circumstances, which may include: Increase in the size or scope of the role or responsibilities.
Increase to reflect the individuals development and performance in role.
For example where a new incumbent is appointed on a below-market salary.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, the Committee will provide rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide executives with Executive Directors may receive Up to 17.5% of base salary plus n a an appropriate allowance contributions into a defined contribution any Company matching on 401 K for retirement planning.
scheme, a cash allowance, pension elected deferrals.
benefits in the form of profit-sharing Further details of the level contributions into the US qualified 401 K of pension benefits currently plan, Company matching on 401 K elected provided to the CEO and CFO are deferrals, or a combination thereof.
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
50 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
