Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which Shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2015 AGM on May 13, 2015.
The Policy will come into effect on this date, if approved by Shareholders, and it is intended that the Policy will remain effective for a period of three years.
A summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy is provided in the following table: Executive Director Remuneration Policy table Framework used to assess performance and provision for the Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity recovery of sums paid Base salary To provide an appropriate Base salaries are normally reviewed The current salaries of the n a level of fixed remuneration annually, typically with effect from Executive Directors are disclosed to attract and retain January 1. in the Annual Report on executives of the calibre Remuneration.
Salary levels increases take account of: required to deliver the To avoid setting expectations of Companys strategy.
The competitive practice in the Executive Directors and other Companys remuneration peer group.
employees, no maximum salary is set under the remuneration policy.
However, salary increases will Salary increases awarded across normally be aligned with increases the Group as a whole.
awarded across the Group as a whole.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of individual circumstances, which may include: Increase in the size or scope of the role or responsibilities.
Increase to reflect the individuals development and performance in role.
For example where a new incumbent is appointed on a below-market salary.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, the Committee will provide rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide executives with Executive Directors may receive Up to 17.5% of base salary plus n a an appropriate allowance contributions into a defined contribution any Company matching on 401 K for retirement planning.
scheme, a cash allowance, pension elected deferrals.
benefits in the form of profit-sharing Further details of the level contributions into the US qualified 401 K of pension benefits currently plan, Company matching on 401 K elected provided to the CEO and CFO are deferrals, or a combination thereof.
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
50 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Framework used to assess performance and provision for the Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity recovery of sums paid Benefits To provide Executive Directors may receive various Benefits for Executive Directors are n a market-competitive market-competitive benefits, which may set at a level which the Committee level of benefits for include: a company car or cash equivalent, considers to be appropriate the Executive Directors.
travel allowance, private medical and against relevant market data for dental insurance, travel accident policy, comparable roles in companies of disability and life assurance.
equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and geographical Where appropriate, other benefits may locations to the Company.
be provided to take account of individual circumstances, such as but not limited to: expatriate allowances, relocation expense, housing allowance and education support.
Annual bonus To drive strong financial Performance is assessed on an annual The maximum annual bonus level Bonuses are based performance and reward basis with targets set by the Committee potential is 2x of base salary.
on a combination the delivery of the business at the start of the year.
At the end of the of stretching annual The current maximum bonus strategy on an annual basis.
year, the Committee determines the extent financial and nonlevel applying to each individual to which these have been achieved.
financial strategic Executive Director is set out in the performance measures, Bonus pay-outs are in cash.
with the majority of the bonus assessed Under the terms and conditions of the against the financial plan, the Company has the right to seek performance metrics.
redress and damages from any individual who has been found to have breached The weighting between the Companys Code of Conduct.
This different metrics will be includes the Companys right to require determined each year an individual to repay any costs incurred according to business through a breach of the Code of Conduct priorities.
from any bonus payment made in the year the breach costs were incurred.
For threshold performance, up to The Committee has discretion to adjust 25% of the maximum the formulaic bonus outcomes both bonus opportunity upwards and downwards including may be received.
to zero to ensure alignment of pay with performance, e. g. in the event Further details, performance is impacted by unforeseen including the circumstances outside of management performance control.
measures for FY 2015, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Framework used to assess performance and provision for the Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity recovery of sums paid LTIP To incentivize and reward The LTIP may consist of grants of The maximum award to any Vesting of the LTIP is individual in one year will be 6x subject to continued long-term performance, performance shares and or share options and align the interests of which vest subject to the achievement of base salary.
employment and the achievement of Executive Directors with stretching performance targets.
Details of the LTIP opportunity those of Shareholders.
key financial and The LTIP has a performance period of at in respect of each year will be strategic performance least three years and a minimum vesting disclosed in the Annual Report on conditions which period of three years.
are aligned to the Companys strategic The LTIP opportunity is reviewed annually plan.
with reference to market data and the associated cost to the Company Threshold performance is calculated using an expected value will result in up to methodology.
12.5% of the maximum award vesting.
The performance condition is reviewed before each award cycle to ensure it Further details, remains appropriately stretching.
including the performance targets Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or attached to the LTIP additional shares on LTIP awards that vest.
in respect of each The Committee has discretion to adjust year, are disclosed in the formulaic LTIP outcomes to improve the Annual Report on the alignment of pay with value creation Remuneration.
for Shareholders to ensure the outcome is a fair reflection of the performance of the Company.
SAYE Plan To encourage the ownership All UK resident employees, including Maximum opportunity for awards n a of Indivior shares.
Executive Directors, who have five or more will be in line with HMRC savings years of continuous service are eligible limits.
to participate in this HMRC-approved employee share scheme.
The Board has the discretion to reduce or eliminate the period of qualifying service.
Global Stock Profit Plan GSPP All individuals who are employees or The maximum participants can n a To encourage the ownership Executive Directors of the Company and contribute to the plan is 500 per of Indivior shares.
participating subsidiaries are eligible to month or the equivalent in local participate in the GSPP.
currency, or such higher amount as the Board may determine, for a The Board may determine that certain period of three years.
employees will not be eligible to participate in the GSPP by virtue of the fact that their participation is prohibited under laws and or regulations of their jurisdiction or because the likely costs involved in order to enable participation are not considered justifiable by the Board.
Awards will be in the form of either share options or share appreciation rights SARS.
52 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
