Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report CEO Shaun Thaxter CFO Cary J. Claiborne 14% 21% 65% 14% 17% 69% Maximum Maximum 47% 27% 26% 44% 33% 23% On-target On-target 100% 100% Minimum Minimum $m 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 $m 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total xed pay Annual bonus LTIP Non-Executive Director remuneration The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 guidelines, all Directors are subject to re-election annually at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys bonus, Value of 100 invested at the opening price on December 23, 2014 share option, long-term incentive or pension schemes.
However, a proportion of their fees may be paid in the form of Indivior shares.
130 Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: 120 Indivior Component and objectiv 110 e Approach of the Company FTSE 250 100 Fees cash and shares To attract and retain The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with recommendations 90 Non-Executive Directors provided by the Chairman and CEO.
The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
80 of the highest calibre Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the with broad commercial 70 Audit, Remuneration, Science and Policy and Nomination and Governance Committees.
Members of all Board December 22, 2014 December 31, 2014 experience relevant Committees also receive an additional fee.
Fee levels may be reviewed biennually.
Fees are reviewed by taking into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 350 companies.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive fees are delivered partly in cash and partly in Indivior shares.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review and for the following year, including the split between cash and shares, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited to 1.5m by the Companys Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment Non-Executive Directors have had letters of appointment setting out their duties and time commitment expected.
Appointments are for an initial period of three years after which they are renewed.
Non-Executive appointments can be terminated by one months notice by either party.
Non-Executives have no entitlement to compensation on termination.
Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors based on the circumstances at that time.
This may include factors such as the calibre of the individual, market practice in the candidates location or locations and scope of the role to which they are being appointed.
Typically, the package will be aligned to the Companys remuneration policy as set out above.
However, should there be a commercial rationale for doing so, the Committee has the discretion to include any other remuneration elements which are not included in the on-going remuneration policy, subject to the overall limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The Committee does not intend to use this discretion to make non-performance incentive payments and is always mindful of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
The overall limit of variable remuneration will be as set out in the policy table taking into account the maximum value of the annual bonus and the maximum awards under the LTIP i. e. 8x base salary.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above maximum limit on variable remuneration set out above.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and made on a like-for-like basis.
54 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
