04 104 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 105 04 Remuneration report continued The role of the approving the design of annual and Executive Director The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is set out below: Remuneration Committee long-term incentive arrangements remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee has for Executive Directors and other When establishing Executive Director Element and link Operation Opportunity Performance responsibility for determining terms senior executives, and agreeing remuneration, the Committee takes to strategy measures and conditions of employment, the annual targets and payments into account, among other things, remuneration and benefits for the under such arrangements: the responsibilities of the role, the Basic salary Salaries are normally reviewed Basic salary increases will Personal performance is Executive Directors.
In consultation remuneration offered for comparable To ensure that we annually, with any changes ordinarily be in line with those considered as part of the with the CEO, the Committee also establishing the general terms roles by companies of a similar size attract and retain effective from 1 April.
The of the broader workforce in annual review process.
reviews the remuneration of other and conditions of service and and by other companies in our sector, employees of the Committee considers individual terms of percentage increase, senior executives.
The Committee the specific terms in both together with the individuals necessary calibre to salaries at the appropriate time though increases beyond this takes into consideration the recruitment and termination experience and performance.
deliver the each year, taking into account may be awarded in certain need to recruit and retain situations for any individual The Committees overall approach, Companys strategic a wide range of relevant factors circumstances, such as where executives and ensure that they within the Committees remit: having given due consideration to objectives.
including the responsibilities there is a significant increase are properly motivated to perform the factors above, is to ensure that of the role, salary levels at in the size of a role and or the in the interests of the Company and approving the policy for, and a substantial proportion of the companies of a similar size scale, value and or complexity its shareholders, while paying no scope of, executive pension remuneration package is dependent and sector, and the individuals of the Company, or where an more than is necessary for arrangements: and on the achievement of shortand experience and performance.
individuals salary is shown to be performance of their role.
long-term objectives intended to demonstrably uncompetitive in reviewing any proposed major create shareholder value, whilst the relevant market.
Following a Committee meeting, changes in Group employee acknowledging that base pay and Benefits Executive Directors are eligible Benefits vary by role and None.
the Chairman of the Committee benefit structures.
benefits need to be sufficiently reports on the meetings business market-competitive to support the To help ensure that to receive a benefits package individual.
The value of benefits we attract and retain including car allowance, private is not expected to exceed 15% to the following Board meeting, Directors remuneration policy attraction and retention of high subject to the need to maintain In accordance with the Regulations, calibre individuals.
employees of the medical insurance, income of salary, excluding relocation or necessary calibre to protection cover and life expatriation related benefits.
confidentiality in the event that the following sections of the the proceedings covered matters Remuneration Report are subject to deliver the insurance.
The CEO is eligible Companys strategic to receive a travel relating to Board members.
audit: the single total figure of remuneration for Directors and objectives.
Principal activities reported accompanying notes page 114, upon include: scheme interests awarded during the The Committee may approve additional benefits in specific year page 119, payments to past recommending to the directors page 120, payments for circumstances such as relocation or expatriation.
Board the remuneration loss of office page 120 and the strategy and framework statement of Directors shareholdings SIP Save as You Earn Although not currently in place, The opportunity is capped at None.
for the Executive Directors and incentive outcomes for the year SAYE it is the Companys intention that HMRC limits.
and other senior executives: ended 31 March 2014 pages 114-116.
To encourage share an HMRC approved, all-employee The remaining sections of the report ownership across the share plan, SAYE and or SIP be determining, within that are not subject to audit.
Executive Directors framework, the remuneration will be eligible to participate.
packages for individual Subject to shareholder approval, Executive Directors and the Committee intends that the Pension Executive Directors may Pension contributions are None.
reviewing the remuneration policy will come into effect from To allow marketparticipate in the Companys capped at 20% of salary.
of other senior executives: the 2014 AGM.
competitive savings defined contribution pension for an income on scheme, or alternatively may retirement.
receive a company payment into an HMRC approved personal pension plan.
A cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions may be provided at the discretion of the Committee.
04 106 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 107 04 Remuneration report continued Element and link Operation Opportunity Performance Element and link Operation Opportunity Performance to strategy measures to strategy measures Annual Bonus Plan Stretching financial targets The maximum opportunity will Financial and non-financial Long-Term Incentive The Committee will review the policy for its LTIP in 2014 15 to ensure alignment with listed ABP and personal objectives for the be no higher than 100% of basic measures.
Plan LTIP company best practice.
The development of this policy will require further consideration by the To motivate and coming financial year are set by salary.
To incentivise and Committee, and any changes will be subject to consultation with shareholders, with a further Financial measures e. g. incentivise the the Committee at its discretion reward successful binding vote to be held no later than the 2014 15 AGM.
The Committee expects TSR to remain a 60% of maximum is payable for adjusted PBT have a achievement of at the start of each financial execution of the key metric in the new LTIP and the level of vesting for threshold performance to be reduced.
weighting of up to 75%, with annual performance year.
At the end of the financial Companys business The structure for the current LTIP, as described in the recent IPO Prospectus, is set out below.
No more than 20% of maximum other personal strategic objectives, primarily year, the Committee reviews strategy over the is payable for threshold objectives representing Awards are granted annually Maximum annual LTIP award LTIP awards currently vest focused on stretching performance against the targets long-term, aligning performance.
Non-financial and vest subject to performance is 150% of basic salary in face 75% on absolute Total financial goals and and objectives set to determine executive and objectives include: The Committee has discretion after a three-year period.
Shareholder Return threshold personal the appropriate level of award.
may be settled in shares or nil- 8% p. a. stretch 15% p. a. to adjust payments upwards health and safety assurance No award vests for belowperformance 75% of the bonus is delivered or downwards within the cost options at the discretion of and 25% on the Companys threshold performance.
in cash, with the remaining 25% the Committee.
Total Shareholder Return limits of the Plan to ensure that thirds of the award currently communication of of the annual bonus payable in awards fairly reflect Company performance relative to the The Committee has the vests for the achievement of strategy and associated deferred shares at market rate at FTSE 250 threshold median, performance.
The Committee will discretion to authorise a threshold level of performance.
strategic objectives the date of issue, which must be consider, amongst other factors, stretch upper quartile payment, in cash or shares, equal The award vests in full for ensuring a high quality retained for two years.
measured over a three-year health, safety and environmental to the value of dividends which the achievement of stretch leadership, values Bonus payments for Executive performance when determining performance period.
would have accrued on vested performance.
and employee Directors are subject to clawback whether or not to exercise such shares during the vesting period.
engagement culture The Committee has discretion to and malus provisions, which are discretion.
Any use of discretion As under the ABP, clawback adjust award outcomes upwards engagement with the operated at the discretion of the will be disclosed in the Annual and malus provisions may be or downwards within the Plan regulatory and external Committee in the event of the Report on Remuneration for the operated at the discretion of the limits to ensure that vesting communications executive being found guilty of relevant year.
Remuneration Committee in the fairly reflects the Companys communities committing serious misconduct, event of serious misconduct, performance over the relevant and or the discovery that there leadership for material misstatement, or if period.
Any such use of has been a material loss to the operational excellence a mistake has been made in discretion will be disclosed in the Company due to the executives calculating vesting for a previous Annual Report on Remuneration reckless, negligent or wilful award.
behaviour, and or cases of Until the relevant shareholding financial misstatement or error levels are acquired, Executive for one year after the payment of Directors must retain 50% of any the bonus.
shares post-deductions vesting under the LTIP.
Executive share Introduced in 2014, Executive Executive Directors are expected None.
ownership Directors are required to build to build a shareholding in Infinis To align the interests and maintain a minimum holding that at all times represents at of Executive of Company shares.
Directors and In this regard, 25% of the annual shareholders.
bonus payable to the relevant Director post-deductions will be deferred in Company shares.
Additionally, until the relevant shareholding levels are acquired Executive Directors must retain 50% of any shares post-deductions vesting under the LTIP.
