04 102 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 103 04 Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance Chairmans statement been increased by 2.0%, slightly with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Following our IPO in November 2013, below the increase for salaried I am pleased to present the employees across the Group.
The and Schedule 5 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Companys first Directors Committee will continue to keep Remuneration Report for salary levels under review in Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts the year ended 31 March 2014.
2014 15 to ensure they remain appropriate, and help the Company and Reports Amendment Regulations The Remuneration Committee the attract and retain executives of the Committee has sought to structure highest calibre.
2013, and also meets the requirements of the an appropriate and balanced Chris Cole remuneration policy which ensures a revised Annual Bonus Plan Chairman that Directors and shareholders that is aligned to current best Remuneration Committee UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the interests are aligned.
Following the practice has been introduced IPO we have used this time and the which includes an appropriate Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
introduction of the new Policy balance of financial performance Report to carefully consider all and measurable personal relevant aspects of remuneration objectives, and threshold, target The intention of this Report is to and particularly the following and maximum specified award provide full transparency of our four components: levels relative to base salary.
The policies and demonstrate that maximum bonus for the CEO and during our first year we have Executive and senior CFO has been increased from 60% considered all our remuneration management salary levels of salary to 100% of salary, but with arrangements in a proper and timely manner.
Our Report on Remuneration and associated benefits: a requirement to defer 25% of any Consistent with these bonus earned into shares for two confirms the 2013 14 position for the Executive Directors including, for the annual Executive Bonus years, subject to clawback.
regulations, this report is set Plan and general Share each Executive Director, a single figure for their total remuneration.
Incentive Plan SIP : an HMRC-approved all-employee out in two distinct sections: share plan SIP is intended to be I am pleased that these awards correlate to a strong first set of the current Long-Term Incentive implemented during the year Plan LTIP arrangement: and ending 31 March 2015. results for the Company.
The Policy Report sets out our Remuneration Directors shareholdings.
our LTIP currently in place is based We hope you find our first Report Policy for all Directors and provides details of how informative and transparent and we 75% on absolute Total Shareholder each of our elements of pay help to reinforce the Key remuneration decisions for Return TSR and 25% relative would welcome any feedback.
achievement of Infinis shortand long-term strategy.
2014 15 have included: TSR and this, together with the vesting levels, will be reviewed This section will be subject to a binding shareholder Salaries and benefits have been before the AGM in 2015 following vote at our AGM.
reviewed against companies of shareholder consultation.
We similar size and complexity and expect to maintain a significant The Annual Report on Remuneration details either confirmed or modified to TSR metric and also to consider take into account our current, introducing a definitive financial how our Directors were paid in the year ended yet new, public company status.
31 March 2014 and how we intend to apply our From the review, the Committee policy in the forthcoming year.
There will be an concluded that the salary of the executive shareholding CEO was positioned significantly requirements have been considered advisory shareholder vote on this section at below market and that, taking into and a requirement for Directors to our AGM.
account his strong performance build and maintain a minimum over the year, an increase of 7.7% holding of Company shares effective 1 April 2014 was equivalent to 100% of salary has appropriate.
The CFOs salary has been introduced.
