04 104 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 105 04 Remuneration report continued The role of the approving the design of annual and Executive Director The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is set out below: Remuneration Committee long-term incentive arrangements remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee has for Executive Directors and other When establishing Executive Director Element and link Operation Opportunity Performance responsibility for determining terms senior executives, and agreeing remuneration, the Committee takes to strategy measures and conditions of employment, the annual targets and payments into account, among other things, remuneration and benefits for the under such arrangements: the responsibilities of the role, the Basic salary Salaries are normally reviewed Basic salary increases will Personal performance is Executive Directors.
In consultation remuneration offered for comparable To ensure that we annually, with any changes ordinarily be in line with those considered as part of the with the CEO, the Committee also establishing the general terms roles by companies of a similar size attract and retain effective from 1 April.
The of the broader workforce in annual review process.
reviews the remuneration of other and conditions of service and and by other companies in our sector, employees of the Committee considers individual terms of percentage increase, senior executives.
The Committee the specific terms in both together with the individuals necessary calibre to salaries at the appropriate time though increases beyond this takes into consideration the recruitment and termination experience and performance.
deliver the each year, taking into account may be awarded in certain need to recruit and retain situations for any individual The Committees overall approach, Companys strategic a wide range of relevant factors circumstances, such as where executives and ensure that they within the Committees remit: having given due consideration to objectives.
including the responsibilities there is a significant increase are properly motivated to perform the factors above, is to ensure that of the role, salary levels at in the size of a role and or the in the interests of the Company and approving the policy for, and a substantial proportion of the companies of a similar size scale, value and or complexity its shareholders, while paying no scope of, executive pension remuneration package is dependent and sector, and the individuals of the Company, or where an more than is necessary for arrangements: and on the achievement of shortand experience and performance.
individuals salary is shown to be performance of their role.
long-term objectives intended to demonstrably uncompetitive in reviewing any proposed major create shareholder value, whilst the relevant market.
Following a Committee meeting, changes in Group employee acknowledging that base pay and Benefits Executive Directors are eligible Benefits vary by role and None.
the Chairman of the Committee benefit structures.
benefits need to be sufficiently reports on the meetings business market-competitive to support the To help ensure that to receive a benefits package individual.
The value of benefits we attract and retain including car allowance, private is not expected to exceed 15% to the following Board meeting, Directors remuneration policy attraction and retention of high subject to the need to maintain In accordance with the Regulations, calibre individuals.
employees of the medical insurance, income of salary, excluding relocation or necessary calibre to protection cover and life expatriation related benefits.
confidentiality in the event that the following sections of the the proceedings covered matters Remuneration Report are subject to deliver the insurance.
The CEO is eligible Companys strategic to receive a travel relating to Board members.
audit: the single total figure of remuneration for Directors and objectives.
Principal activities reported accompanying notes page 114, upon include: scheme interests awarded during the The Committee may approve additional benefits in specific year page 119, payments to past recommending to the directors page 120, payments for circumstances such as relocation or expatriation.
Board the remuneration loss of office page 120 and the strategy and framework statement of Directors shareholdings SIP Save as You Earn Although not currently in place, The opportunity is capped at None.
for the Executive Directors and incentive outcomes for the year SAYE it is the Companys intention that HMRC limits.
and other senior executives: ended 31 March 2014 pages 114-116.
To encourage share an HMRC approved, all-employee The remaining sections of the report ownership across the share plan, SAYE and or SIP be determining, within that are not subject to audit.
Executive Directors framework, the remuneration will be eligible to participate.
packages for individual Subject to shareholder approval, Executive Directors and the Committee intends that the Pension Executive Directors may Pension contributions are None.
reviewing the remuneration policy will come into effect from To allow marketparticipate in the Companys capped at 20% of salary.
of other senior executives: the 2014 AGM.
competitive savings defined contribution pension for an income on scheme, or alternatively may retirement.
receive a company payment into an HMRC approved personal pension plan.
A cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions may be provided at the discretion of the Committee.
