64 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Income tax External auditor The calculation of the Groups potential income tax assets and liabilities Under the final Order issued by the Competition and Markets Authority, a FTSE necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of 350 company is prohibited from appointing an auditor unless there has been certain items, whose tax treatment cannot be fully determined until resolution a competitive tender process in relation to one or more of the preceding nine has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through financial years or in relation to the next financial year.
A competitive tender a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years process is a process where the Company invites and evaluates bids for the to resolve.
provision of statutory audit services from two or more auditors.
Under the transitional provisions of the Order, given that our current Auditor was appointed The Committee addresses these matters through a range of reporting from in 2006, we are required to undertake a competitive tender for the 2016 financial senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness of year audit.
Given their length of tenure, it is possible for the existing Auditor to be managements views including the degree to which these are supported by reappointed as a result of the tender.
With the additional EU directive and UK BIS professional advice from external legal and other advisory rms.
This is also consultation, we expect that the requirement to have auditor rotation after an area of higher audit risk and accordingly the Committee received detailed 20 years will become effective and if the current Auditor was reappointed as verbal and written reporting from the external auditor on these matters.
a result of the tender, it could not remain in place beyond 20 years from the Following these procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the income tax date of their appointment in 2006. assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Groups contingent liability disclosure in respect of income taxes, to be appropriate.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
To ensure the Auditors independence, the Committee annually Revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement reviews the Companys relationship with the Auditor and receives summaries The Audit Committee has reviewed the various accounting methods applied at each Audit Committee meeting as to its independence.
The Committee for the recognition of revenue and costs in respect of the LightSquared concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional relationship Cooperation Agreement.
Both the percentage of completion and straightwith the Auditor and that there are sufficient controls and processes in place line method have been used to recognise revenue and costs relating to the to ensure the required level of independence.
The external auditor is required different phases of the Cooperation Agreement: the Audit Committee has to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
deemed the methods used appropriate.
The current audit partner was appointed in 2011 and the final audit he will be responsible for is the 2015 financial year.
For the year ending Provision for uncollectable trade receivables and for 31 December 2014, the Committee has provided to the Board its inventory write-downs recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte As a result of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the Group estimates as the Groups Auditor.
During the year, the Auditor charged the Group its required provision for uncollectable trade receivables and for inventory $1.6m 2013: $1.6m for audit and audit-related services.
write-downs at the end of each period.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the provision at the end of the year is based on managements latest Non-audit services available information and is therefore appropriate.
The Companys Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, Capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowing costs perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch costs and of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate protection other associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
In addition, borrowing of their independence and objectivity.
costs attributable to qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost of those assets.
Given the nature of the Groups business, significant capital Fees charged by the Auditor in respect of non-audit services require the prior expenditure is incurred on space segment assets.
The key judgements approval of the Audit Committee, except where the Audit Committee has agreed involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and associated that the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and tax borrowings costs are: compliance work from the Auditor of up to 50,000 for any one project, without whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRSs have been met: the need to seek approval for individual projects.
Any commitments above this whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation amount will require Audit Committee Chairman approval.
A summary is supplied of costs should cease and depreciation should commence: and to the Audit Committee at each meeting where amounts have been committed whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a below 50,000.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the Auditor during the year is result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The external auditor examined the capitalisation of development costs in It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several rms, which may the year, particularly in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band satellite include the Auditor, before work on non-audit projects is awarded.
Contracts are programmes and reported its findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
The Committee and the Committee is satisfied that space segment assets and associated borrowing Companys management are aware that the level of fees paid to the Auditor for costs have been capitalised correctly in the year.
non-audit services compared to audit services was signicantly higher several years ago due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain Revenue recognition transactions and has worked to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have A key area of judgement in respect of revenue recognition, especially in reduced over the last few years.
The Committee does not believe that asking the the telecommunications industry, is in respect of the timing of recognition.
Auditor to undertake non-audit work is an issue for the Company as it is satisfied The Groups internal audit team have kept revenue systems, processes with the quality of work and advice provided and, importantly, it believes the and recognition as a focus area during the year and the external auditor independence of the Auditor is not at risk.
Additionally, where non-audit work is performed detailed audit procedures on revenue recognition, with the undertaken management will have negotiated competitive rates for each findings of both being reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee piece of work.
have therefore concluded that the Groups revenue recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 We receive advice from other rms for specic projects and other long-term In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use a projects.
We have continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various projects combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals.
some new projects and some have been continuing for several years.
We also The three new Non-Executive Directors who were appointed in June 2014 and use different rms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
February and March 2015 were personal recommendations from a Director or a recommendation made to a Director.
For the replacement of the Chief Financial During the year, the Auditor charged the Group $1.0m 2013: $1.3m for officer position, the Company engaged Russell Reynolds Associates.
Reynolds Associates has no other connection with the Company.
Details of the process adopted for the CFO appointment was described in our 2013 Internal audit Annual Report.
Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Internal Audit Department is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
In considering the skills required for new Non-Executive Directors, there was The Internal Auditor presents reports at each meeting covering updates on specic focus on seeking an individual who had experience in senior ranking internal audit activities, results of audits and follow-up actions required and positions within the US Government to replace the skill set and knowledge from their annual audit plan.
The Chairman of the Committee meets with the the Board upon the retirement of Admiral James Ellis Jnr Rtd, and we felt that Internal Auditor as required but generally at least once a year.
General Kehler met all these requirements.
The prole and experience of Robert Ruijter as a qualied financial expert and his operational experience was an excellent t for coming onto the Board and becoming a member of the Audit REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Committee as this Committee will have three Directors as its members who all The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent Nonreach ten years service in 2015 and will retire in due course.
Having Mr Ruijter join Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when necessary, the Committee and benefit from their experience will be very helpful to him and generally at least once a year, and during the year was represented by Andrew the Company in the future.
Dr Tour has deep experience within international Sukawaty, its Chairman, Admiral James Ellis Jnr Rtd, Stephen Davidson, organisations handling regulatory issues and championing the cause of bringing Dr Abe Peled and John Rennocks.
Dr Hamadoun Tour joined the Committee broadband communications to rural areas, particularly in Africa.
During 2014 the Committee met five times.
has industry experience having previously worked as a satellite engineer.
Dr Tour is a member of the Nominations Committee and we are creating a separate The table below shows who makes up the Nominations Committee and their Committee which will focus on regulatory activities where we will be able to draw attendance at meetings during 2014: on his considerable recent experience to assist our awareness of regulatory affairs.
We had identied the desire to extend the mix of Directors from a cultural Nominations Percentage and background point of view and we believe the two Directors who have joined Name Committee attendance in 2015 full these criteria.
As part of the recruitment process, the individuals 1 Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 5 5 100% generally met the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, the Chairmen of the Audit Stephen Davidson 5 5 100% and Remuneration Committees and the Company Secretary.
Other members Admiral James Ellis Jnr Rtd 1 2 50% of the Board were also given the opportunity to meet them.
Abe Peled 5 5 100% John Rennocks 5 5 100% All currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2015 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, or offer themselves for appointment as appropriate.
As noted 1 For one meeting, Mr Sukawaty did not participate for the full meeting as a member earlier in the Corporate Governance Report, the Committee has agreed that it of the Committee as the business of the meeting related to his own position and a possible transition to become Non-Executive Chairman.
was appropriate that although some Directors had exceeded their six-year term of ofce, they remain independent in their contribution, and should be invited to serve for a longer period and that the three Directors who will have served ten years at the 2015 AGM remain independent.
As detailed earlier in the The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Corporate Governance Report on page 59, Stephen Davidson will step down as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity including gender Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after the 2015 AGM and will be consideration, and a broad representation of skills across the Board.
In doing succeeded by Simon Bax.
Mr Davidson will remain a member of the Committee this, the Committee will give full consideration to succession planning and the and a Director of the Company.
leadership needs of the Company.
The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers diversity in its The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to the Board.
of the Boards Committees and will review and make recommendations in relation It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company: to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the diversity and diversity, including gender: and what skills and expertise are needed on the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the Board and from senior management in the future.
Gender is one element of the Non-Executive Directors, including the tenure of each Director.
considerations made in appointing senior management and Board members, and as part of general recruitment practices across the Group.
The Committee The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work and concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director as he or she was pleased to note that with the recent senior management changes that reaches their sixth year of reappointment and separately with a view to assessing took place within the business it followed the recommendations set out in the their continuing independence thereafter, particularly when Directors are seeking succession planning document.
This document will be updated to reect the to be reappointed after serving nine or ten years.
The Committee also reviews changes made and identify additional staff members who will form part of and recommends the annual election and re-election of any Director by the overall management succession planning.
shareholders and changes to senior management, including Executive Directors.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard to the benets of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
66 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT Details of the changes to be operated in 2015 to the annual bonus plan and one of the share plans, the Bonus Share Award, are covered on page 78 and for the Performance Share Award, our LTIP, on pages 78 and 79.
I do though want to highlight in this letter information about the changes to the performance metrics of the long-term share plan the Performance Share Award.
During 2014 the Company continued to progress existing strategic programmes such as: the launch and successful deployment of our Global Xpress satellite programme: maximising revenue opportunities for our L-band services.
becoming a major participant in the rapidly growing market for aviation services There is more detail about these programmes in the strategy section of the Annual Report on pages 22 and 23, and we believe they underpin long-term STEPHEN DAVIDSON shareholder value.
Hence it is important to align part of the long-term share CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE plan for our Executive Directors with these same strategic goals.
We have communicated to our largest shareholders the rationale for the inclusion of strategic objectives to be part of the long-term incentive award which will be ANNUAL STATEMENT made shortly after the full year results are announced in March 2015.
Those strategic objectives will be one of three performance metrics: the other two Dear Shareholder continue to be EBITDA growth and the use of relative TSR.
Details of the 2015 award are shown on pages 78 and 79.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
A Group-wide salary benchmarking review took place during 2014 with the outcome that we awarded an average salary increase of just over 7% across the During 2014 we have taken major steps towards delivering transformational Group, effective July 2014.
This exercise has put us back on track for staff reviews growth opportunities for the Company.
We have also delivered good financial and gives us a sound base from which future increases can be made.
As we have results and excellent returns for shareholders, TSR over the last two years has highlighted in previous Remuneration Reports, our CEO, Rupert Pearces salary is exceeded 50%, and dividends increased by 5% and have increased every year below the median of his benchmark and we have been moving him up gradually since our IPO in 2005. to the appropriate level.
He was therefore awarded a 15% salary rise in 2014 following a freeze in 2013.
We will review his salary in July 2015 and expect to This is our second year of reporting under the new regime where the report is make an increase then.
We also appointed a new CFO, Tony Bates, during this divided into two sections: our Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on year.
Tonys remuneration package was determined in line with the approved Remuneration.
We received a strong endorsement of both reports last year with Remuneration Policy and best practice, and is discussed in the Annual Report shareholders at the AGM supporting the Remuneration Policy Report with 97% on Remuneration on page 75. of votes in favour and the Annual Report on Remuneration receiving 98% of votes.
We have made some minor changes in the Remuneration Policy Report 2014 was the last year of executive service for Andy Sukawaty, as effective which are highlighted on the next page and provided explanations regarding the 1 January 2015, he became Inmarsats Non-Executive Chairman.
Andy will receive changes in the relevant section of the Reports.
no new share plan awards but will benefit from plans vesting where he is already a participant subject to performance conditions being met and time proportioned I thought it would be helpful to shareholders if I focused on some of the changes according to plan rules.
in relation to application of our policy as the Remuneration Committee feels they warrant highlight.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since the Company listed in June 2005.
It has been a privilege to undertake this role and Id like to thank our shareholders The Committee has been closely involved in reviewing and improving the whole heartedly for their engagement and support.
I will step down as Chairman annual bonus arrangements and the two executive share plans which operate.
after the AGM in May and Simon Bax who joined the Board in 2013 will take on the The review has concentrated on: responsibility.
I wish Simon every success in this new role.
achieving a closer linkage between strategy, long-term shareholder value and remuneration: and A resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration which is subject simplication of and closer alignment between corporate and to an advisory vote will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May.
STEPHEN DAVIDSON CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 5 March 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report save a number of minor changes as follows: References to financial years have been updated where appropriate: Share awards made after the 2014 AGM have been renamed Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share Awards PSA following shareholder approval of the Executive Share Plan ESP at the 2014 AGM: Minor revisions have been made to the performance metrics for BSA and PSA awards, and the annual bonus, from 2015 and details are shown on pages 78 and 79: Pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reect 2015 salaries: New Non-Executive Director appointment expiry dates have been updated: and Details for the Executive Chairman role have been omitted in light of Mr Sukawatys move to a Non-Executive Chairman role effective 1 January 2015.
The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking rewards to the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group.
When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, including the Groups overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our Long Range Business Plan LRBP, pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation.
Where appropriate, we will consult with shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements.
The Committee is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve the Companys objectives which will create value for shareholders.
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance Basic salary Paying market-competitive base Salaries are reviewed annually with any increase Salary increases will be applied in line with Not applicable salaries, commensurate with the usually made in July or following a material change the outcome of an annual salary review.
individuals role, responsibilities in responsibilities.
The Committee will determine and experience allows us to any increases to be made.
The maximum annual salary increase will recruit and retain Executive normally be in line with the average increase Directors of the calibre required Any increase is determined by a formal appraisal applied to the UK workforce.
However, to implement our strategy.
by the Committee, taking into account market pay larger increases may be awarded in certain levels, a review of salaries against companies of circumstances including, but not limited to, similar size, complexity and type, Group performance, an increase in scope or responsibility of the as well as the remuneration arrangements operated role: to apply salary progression for a newly throughout the Group, with reference to UK based appointed Director: where the Directors employees in particular for pay comparison levels.
salary has fallen behind market positioning.
Where increases are awarded in excess of that for the UK employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
As previously disclosed to shareholders, it is anticipated that the CEOs salary will increase at a greater level than that for the general employee population as his salary was intentionally set below market rates on appointment because he was new to the role as CEO.
Benets in kind We provide cost-effective Provision of death, disability and medical insurance The benets provided may vary by role Not applicable benets which support the cover which can include spouse and dependents and levels of cover provided reect market wellbeing of employees.
Life assurance of 4 x salary, paid holiday practice and the individual circumstances and medical check-ups are also provided.
If required, the Company would provide access to It is not anticipated that the current cost independent financial and legal advice on a case of benets as set out in the Annual Report by case basis.
on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy Cash in lieu of a company car was previously provided will apply.
to one Director although it is not anticipated this will be offered generally to Executive Directors.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional These benets are non-pensionable.
circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
Pension We provide dened contribution We provide dened contribution pension Maximum employer contributions are Not applicable pension arrangements, or cash arrangements, or cash in lieu of pension.
The currently 12.5% of the capped salary in lieu of pension.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in under the UK pension plan.
the Companys dened contribution pension plan arrangements or other similar pension plans as The Committee may review pension appropriate to the Executive Directors nationality contribution levels in the future if or location.
benchmarking reects that the current contribution levels and method of Contributions are based on a percentage of salary calculation are off-market.
Any increase which is currently limited to a pensions cap.
The in contributions would not result in a Company also operates an auto-enrolment pension pension contribution in excess of 20% scheme which an Executive Director could participate of the uncapped basic salary.
in instead of the main pension plan.
68 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance Annual We provide an annual bonus to Bonus payment levels are determined by the Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on achievement cash bonus incentivise the achievement of Committee annually by reference to performance 125% of salary.
of annual financial and annual financial and operational against targets set at the start of the financial personal objectives.
goals in line with Group strategy.
Personal objectives are set annually by Target opportunity.
The personal element will not be Performance metrics are selected weighted more than 30% of the to support the annual business In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the total in any year.
strategy which we believe also ability to exercise discretion to override the formulaic lead to enhancement of bonus outcome within the limits of the scheme where Details of the measures and shareholder value.
it believes the outcome is not truly reective of weightings applicable for the performance, and to reect the actual delivery of financial year under review are value to shareholders.
Any discretionary adjustments provided in the Annual Report will be detailed in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee may change The Committee may exercise its discretion to the measures used if other clawback bonuses in certain exceptional measures are deemed more circumstances which may include but are not limited suitable to allow delivery of to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward the Companys strategy.
revision of the financial results of the Group.
Bonus Share We provide the opportunity We make annual monetary awards which convert Maximum opportunity for all Executive The Committee sets annual Award BSA to participate in the BSA as it to a number of shares subject to achievement Directors is up to 200% of salary 300% performance measures currently links the delivery of short-term of agreed annual financial targets.
The resulting in exceptional circumstances.
based on the same financial financial and operational shares vest over the subsequent three years, objectives as for the annual performance to sustained subject to continued employment.
The Committees current intention is to cash bonus plan and may shareholder value creation.
make awards of up to 200% and 175% of change these for future awards Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively.
Participation in the BSA the vesting period are awarded only on the number reinforces continued delivery of shares that vest.
Threshold performance results in of the LRBP.
60% conversion of the monetary Unvested awards and vested awards that have not yet award into shares.
been transferred to the Executive Director are subject to clawback, i. e. forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
Such circumstances may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the financial results of the Group.
Performance We believe the PSA aligns We make annual awards of shares, which vest after Maximum opportunity for all Executive The performance measures and Share Award executives interests with at least three years subject to performance over Directors is up to 200% of salary 300% respective weightings may vary PSA long-term shareholder value a three-year period.
year-on-year to reect strategic creation through rewarding the priorities, and will include a delivery of a mix of financial Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over Threshold performance will result in the financial market measure.
measures and relative total the vesting period are awarded only on the number vesting of 30% 0% 0% of the maximum Measures for outstanding PSPs shareholder return TSR.
award under the TSR EBITDA strategic include an element for relative performance elements.
TSR and EBITDA, and PSAs from The financial performance Unvested awards are subject to clawback, i. e. 2015 include a third element measures in the PSA reect the forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
The intended award levels are included linked to strategic performance.
value drivers in the LRBP.
Such circumstances may include but are not limited in the Annual Report on Remuneration to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward on page 78.
Details of the measures and revision of the financial results of the Group.
weightings applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Changes to weightings and performance targets will be retrospectively explained to shareholders.
Employee To encourage share ownership We operate employee share savings plans for our Participation levels set by HMRC or Not applicable share plans across all employees as allowed global workforce where, depending on location, relevant local laws from time to time.
by HMRC and relevant local laws.
savings periods of between 2 and 3 years operate.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
REPLACEMENT SHARE PLANS The Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards and Performance Share Awards, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards.
The Company will also be able to grant Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
Restricted Share Awards will not be subject to performance conditions, and will not be granted to Executive Directors except on recruitment, as explained below in the Approach to Recruitment Remuneration.
The Company also received shareholder approval at its 2014 AGM for the Inmarsat plc 2014 Sharesave Plan and the Inmarsat plc 2014 Share Incentive Plan, replacing the previous Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan which had expired.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in these plans.
PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING VARIABLE PAY AWARDS Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation in May 2014 of the Remuneration Policy.
Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fullled.
Details of outstanding awards to Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SELECTION Each element of remuneration reects the following assumptions: Our incentive plans excluding restricted share awards and all-employee share plans all include financial performance requirements.
Performance targets are Minimum: includes xed remuneration only, i. e. base salary, taxable set to be stretching, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and benets and pension: the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set Target: includes xed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups LRBP, performance under the annual cash bonus plan 60% of maximum and broker forecasts, and historical performance.
Achievement of these targets BSA 60% of maximum monetary value of 200% and 175% of salary for delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP.
the CEO and CFO respectively, and threshold performance under the PSA 30% 0% 0% of maximum under the TSR EBITDA strategic performance The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reect the financial targets which the elements, based on maximum opportunities of 200% and 175% of salary Board believes are key to driving the business.
Revenue and EBITDA reect the for the CEO and CFO respectively : and underlying financial success of the business and support the annual business Maximum: includes xed remuneration and maximum payment under strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsats shareholders.
The PSA currently has two financial performance requirements.
EBITDA growth CEO: RUPERT PEARCE 000 and the Companys share price performance against the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts.
A third performance metric has been included for the 2015 share awards to further improve alignment with our strategy and details are 4,000 Fixed remuneration provided on pages 78 and 79 where we set out the performance metrics to Annual variable remuneration 3,269 Long-term remuneration be used.
All three performance metrics are linked to our long-term business 3,200 strategy, and support shareholder value creation.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different performance 2,400 measures following a corporate event such as a change in strategy, a material 63% acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing 1,650 market conditions which causes the Committee to determine that the measures 1,600 are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve 43% their original purpose.
20% 800 544 24% REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES 100% 33% 17% Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined 0 on the same principle as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward Minimum On-target Maximum should support our business strategy.
It should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals.
CFO: TONY BATES 000 As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements that are appropriate to apply but overall, this principle applies across the different geographies in which we operate.
Employees receive variable pay which gives 3,000 Fixed remuneration 2,613 them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is reective of Annual variable remuneration Long-term remuneration how we deal with Executive Directors too.
2,400 In general, the remuneration policy and principles which apply to other senior executives is consistent with that set out in this report for Executive Directors.
60% 1,800 All employees participate in bonus schemes.
Group senior executives are eligible 1,356 to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA.
The BSA may operate with division-specic targets for some participants, as appropriate.
1,200 40% All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are 22% 475 25% 600 generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent international plan.
Participation is on generally the same terms subject to local regulations.
100% 35% 18% 0 SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Minimum On-target Maximum The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold 5x base salary in beneficially owned ordinary shares.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build up a External appointments shareholding to the 5x guideline over a period of time, generally within five In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align to seven years.
the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
PAY SCENARIO CHARTS In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors including opportunities for the two current Executive Directors CEO and CFO, and the but not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration arrangements for other potential split between the different elements of pay under three different Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
Potential reward ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its opportunities are based on Inmarsats current Remuneration Policy, applied to shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Policy salaries as at 1 January 2015.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the of any share price movement.
appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as appropriate to offer.
70 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
The Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as Bonus Share Awards, Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
2 regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Component Approach Maximum annual value Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and benets To be eligible to receive benets in line with the current policy, and as well as any expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Directors relocation on appointment.
Sharesave Scheme To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees.
Annual cash bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees.
The Committee will 125% of salary determine on a case by case basis whether the executive will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount.
Bonus Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described Up to 200% of salary in the policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances Performance Share To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described Up to 200% of salary Awards in the policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances Restricted Share Awards To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule which will be agreed Up to 200% of salary by the Committee, subject to continued employment only.
Awards will typically be made to 300% in exceptional facilitate the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting circumstances schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
Details of how we applied the Policy to the recruitment of Mr Bates as our new CFO during 2014 are provided on page 75.
Internal appointments Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of remuneration and benets.
Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the Executives development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them and set out details of their fees base fee and Committee membership fee.
Fees will be the same level as for other Non-Executive Directors, except where the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution.
Reasonable expenses will also be paid and cover will be provided to all Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, under the Companys Directors and Ofcers insurance policy.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-Executive To attract and retain The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee.
To avoid setting expectations, Director fees and high-calibre Nonthere is no maximum fee level.
Committee fees Executive Directors The Committee Chairman and other members of the Board by offering a market Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and the Senior Aggregate fees were increased competitive fee level.
Independent Director Deputy Chairman are paid supplements to to 1m following approval by reect their additional responsibilities.
The Board Chairman will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities, The fees paid to Nonand receive healthcare cover.
Executive Directors in respect of the year under review and NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and for the following year are Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably disclosed in the Annual Report sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to on Remuneration.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee taking into account fee levels at the same set of companies, and is then approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be made, they are usually effective in July.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Director Date of service contract Term of ofce Notice period Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company or Director Tony Bates 21 February 2014 indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company or Director The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director.
All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
The Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the Executive nds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years base salary plus other benets, which may include annual bonus subject to performance conditions being fullled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date, unless the Committee believes this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors ofce or employment.
The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Annual bonus Good leaver see below for denition Normal payment date Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable BSA and BSP Good leaver see below for denition Normal vesting date, although the Committee Any earned but not yet transferred shares will be retained.
has discretion to accelerate The treatment of unvested shares is at the Committees discretion All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable PSA and PSP Good leaver see below for denition Normal vesting date, although the Committee Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and has discretion to accelerate subject to performance conditions being met All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable RSA Good leaver see below for denition Normal vesting date, although the Committee Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time has discretion to accelerate All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable Employee Share Plans Good leaver see below for denition Share options can be exercised for a certain The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options period of time after departure in accordance with HMRC approved rules All other reasons Awards lapse Not applicable A good leaver is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
Termination for cause is regarded as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be transferred to participants within such period as the Committee may permit based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met.
Alternatively, participants shall be required to give up existing share awards and receive shares in the new company being equivalent to the original award.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and paid immediately.
The final treatment for the annual bonus remains subject to the Committees discretion.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director where it is in the service agreement to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Executive Directors termination package, including without limitation compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement agreement, payment of the departing Executive Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
72 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS Non-Executive Directors When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views and the guidelines of investor bodies.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, Date of appointment Deputy Chairman SID and Company Secretary engage pro-actively with Name letter Date of appointment major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.
Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on Remuneration Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to consulting shareholders Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005 in advance of major changes.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006 to approve last years remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 Remuneration section of this report.
Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 Dr Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION John Rennocks 5 January 2005 4 January 2005 The following section provides details of how Inmarsats Remuneration Policy Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015 1 was implemented during the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and how Andrew Sukawaty 16 September 2014 1 January 2015 the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2015.
Dr Hamadoun Tour 16 December 2014 1 March 2015 2 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 The Regulations require our external auditor to report to shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether, in their opinion, the 1 Mr Sukawaty became Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 2015.
He was previously Executive Chairman.
relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The external 2 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd retired from the Board on 5 March 2014. auditors opinion is set out on pages 84 to 87 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the report.
Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, they REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2014 may not remain in ofce for a period longer than six years, or two terms in ofce, The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
We whichever is the shorter.
The Corporate Governance Code has special provisions had five scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities.
regarding determination of the independence of directors when they have Committee membership and attendance are set out in the table below: served for more than nine years.
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their appointment Number of scheduled meetings in 2014 Attendance will normally terminate on: Stephen Davidson Committee Chairman 5 5 Sir Bryan Carsberg 5 5 a Director choosing to resign voluntarily: Kathleen Flaherty 5 5 a Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: 1 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 3 3 if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of Simon Bax 5 5 the appointment: 2 a Director is found guilty of misconduct: and Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 2 2 a Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at an AGM.
1 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd joined the Board on 6 May 2014.
2 Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd retired from the Board on 5 March 2014.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans.
They receive no benets, except that healthcare cover is provided for the Non-Executive Chairman, as a continuation During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which ensured of the cover provided to him over the last 10 years.
The Company reimburses the that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year.
Its key reasonable expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their activities included: duties as Directors.
annual review of Executive Director salaries: EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS review of performance outcomes for the annual bonus, BSA and PSA in Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the board of respect of performance to 31 December 2014: other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from calibration of award levels and targets for the 2014 BSA and PSA awards for outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external board appointments.
the Executive Directors: Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any guidelines for review of the new Non-Executive Chairmans fee: external directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance Code, subject preparation of the 2013 Directors Remuneration Report, including at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the Chairman, or in the consideration of the changes required in order to comply with new case of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director SID.
reporting regulations: review of the service contract of Mr Bates, who was appointed to the Board as CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY CFO in June 2014: Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration comprehensive review of incentive plans across the Group: policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements consideration of shareholder views on issues which may have arisen during for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for the year: senior executives.
This relates to philosophy around levels of base salary, review of potential changes to the operation of the BSA and PSA: and operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and benefit preparation for the 2014 AGM.
provision also being available across the Group.
The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the HR team or to a condential email address.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 ADVISERS During 2014, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty Executive Chairman during the year, Rupert Pearce CEO, Tony Bates CFO, Debbie Jones Executive Vice President, Corporate Development whose responsibilities include human resources, Alison Horrocks Executive Vice President, Corporate Governance and Company Secretary and Matt Smith, Inmarsats Head of Reward.
John Rennocks, the Companys Deputy Chairman also attends the meetings and contributes to the discussion.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and continued to act as the Committees independent external adviser during the year.
Keplers responsibilities include a mandate to review our remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Kepler provides no  services to the Company and is therefore considered independent.
During 2014, Keplers fees were based on time and materials, and fees excluding VAT and expenses totalled 36,300 2013: 33,700.
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2014 AGM The following table shows the results of the binding and advisory shareholder vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration of the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report, respectively, at the 2014 AGM: Directors Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Total number % of Total number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast For including discretionary 320,673,577 96.73% 321,288,935 98.41% Against 10,836,312 3.27% 5,177,325 1.59% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 331,509,889 100% 326,466,260 100% Votes withheld 6,733,406 n a 11,777,035 n a We have followed up with any queries from shareholders during the year on remuneration and general governance issues and sought the views of several shareholders regarding the former Executive Chairmans transition to the Non-Executive Chairman role.
Shareholders contacted were supportive and this input was valuable to the Board and Nominations Committee in their decision-making.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into our executive Remuneration Policy.
The Committee wrote to the Companys major shareholders in early 2015 regarding the introduction of strategic measures within the PSA from 2015.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single gure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the prior year: 6 Andrew Sukawaty Rupert Pearce Tony Bates '000 '000 '000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Basic salary 615 615 485 451 263 1 Taxable benets 38 24 9 7 7 2 Pension 88 77 16 14 9 3 Annual bonus 738 627 622 469 563 4 Bonus share plan 1,181 1,181 677 493 450 5 Long-term incentives 1,222 543 0 Total 3,882 2,525 2,352 1,434 1,292 1 The taxable benets received by the Executive Directors include healthcare benets, a car allowance for one Director and benets relating to staff entertaining.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specic deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable.
The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is settled by the Company.
2 Represents the pension payment made by the employer to the pension scheme and or to the individual Director as cash in lieu of pension see page 77 for details.
3 Represents the annual bonus payment in relation to the financial year see pages 74 and 75 for details.
4 Represents the face value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and awarded under the Bonus Share Plan in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2013 see page 76 for details.
5 Represents the value of Performance Share Plan awards based on the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2014.
6 Tony Bates joined on 2 June 2014.
His salary and benets are pro-rated.
His annual bonus and Bonus Share Award amounts are annualised gures.
7 Mr Medlock left the Board and the Company on 3 January 2014.
He also received 2,600 for leave not taken.
No bonus was paid for 2014, and all his outstanding awards under the BSP and PSP lapsed.
The fee for Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd included a fee as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US.
As at 5 March 2014, this fee was $13,427.86 converted from Sterling at the spot rate at each payment date.
The fee for General C. Robert Kehler Rtd included a fee of 51,500 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US.
The taxable benets received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings.
The tax due in respect of these benets is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specic deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible.
The fee for John Rennocks includes the work he undertakes as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Annual cash bonus in respect of 2014 performance In 2014, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group Ensure CEO success through a constructive and supportive financial targets and individual performance objectives.
teaming relationship: Assist the CEO generally in support of business success: 80% of the bonus is linked to financial performance, as measured through Manage the Board and Board evaluation process effectively: revenue 50% of financial element, operating expenditure 35% and capital Support the Inmarsat-5 satellite programme delivery: expenditure on an accruals basis 15%.
Maintain relationships with major shareholders and the investment community: The remaining 20% of the bonus is linked to personal performance, as appraised Participate in Inmarsat business development efforts in BRIC countries: and against achievement of challenging objectives set by the Committee at the start Transition all key executive objectives to CEO by the end of 2014. of the year.
Personal performance targets are clearly dened and measurable, and are linked to Group strategic and operational performance.
CEO The outcomes under the financial and personal elements are calculated, and the Committee exercises its judgement in applying a corporate multiplier to the Deliver the 2014 financial budget as to revenues and financial elements of the bonus based on the achievement of the financial EBITDA performance: targets, along with a broader assessment of Company performance and Maintain the Global Xpress Ka-band programme on time and to budget: individual contributions over the year.
Complete the sale of our retail energy business and leverage market partnership for Global Xpress: In January and March 2014, the Committee reviewed the above three financial Defend the Companys position regarding LightSquared while it is performance elements in respect of the current year, and determined them to in bankruptcy: and remain appropriate measures to use for the annual bonus plan for Executive Review opportunities for how to utilise the S-band license.
The Committee will disclose the 2014 financial targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
We believe the targets used are commercially CFO sensitive if made public in the same reporting period as to which they apply.
Deliver the 2014 financial budget as to revenues and Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2014 are EBITDA performance: noted in the next column.
Some have been excluded where we believe they Upgrade the forecasting, budgeting and planning processes to implement may be commercially sensitive if published.
more robust process and content: Agree and implement changes in internal and external reporting: and Reorganise the finance function to align with the set up of the organisation through Business Units.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 In 2014, revenues were $1,286m, which exceeded stretch performance.
Operating expenses were $372m which performed better than stretch: capital expenditure on an accruals basis of $425m also performed better than stretch.
A corporate multiplier was applied to the financial element of the bonus based on these results and the Committees judgement of broader Company performance.
The maximum and target annual bonus amounts that could be paid and actual cash bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out below.
Actual bonus outcome Bonus paid for 2014 for the 2013 Target bonus Maximum bonus financial year financial year Name % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary Andrew Sukawaty 75% 125% 120% 102% Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 120% 104% Tony Bates 75% 125% 125% Nil Mr Bates received an annual bonus opportunity as if he had been employed for the full year of 2014.
The Committee decided that a full years annual bonus opportunity was warranted because of Mr Bates strong performance and contribution to the Company since his appointment in June 2014, and because in agreeing the terms for Mr Bates to join the Company, he gave up committed cash bonus awards at his previous employer.
Some of the key contributions Mr Bates has already made to the business have been in the new reporting structure for internal and external reporting to simplify the external view of the quarterly financial statements: these changes have been very positively received by analysts and shareholders.
Additionally, he has been instrumental in enabling the Company to nalise an outstanding tax matter which has been of financial benefit to the Company.
The combined value of the annualised cash bonus award 125% of salary and awards of 100% of salary under the BSA and PSA, were below the value of awards foregone by Mr Bates at his previous employer.
These levels of awards have been made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy regarding recruitment remuneration as set out on pages 69 and 70.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2013 PERFORMANCE Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2013 bonus financial targets in this year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets and actual performance against them are set out below.
Performance targets Weighting Payout Measure % of financial element On-target Stretch Actual performance % of financial element Revenue 50% $1,240m $1,333m $1,262m 23% Opex 35% $728m $693m $613m 35% Capex 15% $731m $696m $657m 15% Total 100% 73% EBITDA Underpin for BSP $641m $649m Underpin met Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2013 were provided in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, and payout under the personal element was 17% and 19% of salary for the Executive Chairman and the CEO, respectively.
A corporate multiplier was applied to the financial element based on these results and the Committees judgement of broader Company performance.
The Committee took into account the outperformance of stretch targets in operating expenses, capital expenditure on an accruals basis and EBITDA, and determined that a corporate multiplier of 1.17x, relating to the outperformance on two of the financial annual bonus metrics, should be applied to the calculated bonus outcomes.
As a result, the overall bonus outcomes for 2013 were 102% and 104% of salary for the Executive Chairman and the CEO, respectively.
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2013 PERFORMANCE Details of the financial targets and actual performance against targets in respect of the 2013 BSP award are provided in the Annual cash bonus in respect of 2013 performance section immediately above.
BSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF 2014 An allocation of shares will be made in respect of the March 2014 monetary awards based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
The award will be calculated using the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares on the day following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 2015.
The performance measures, weightings and actual performance against target were as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Actual performance against target Revenue 50% Revenues were $1,286m which is better than stretch Operating expenditure 35% Operating expenses were $372m which is better than stretch Capital expenditure 15% Capital expenditure on an accruals basis were $425m which is better than stretch The minimum EBITDA level required before any share award could be made was exceeded.
Based on performance achieved against each of the targets, 100% of the monetary award will be converted to shares.
76 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The table below shows the conversion of the 2014 BSP Award.
Executive Director Maximum monetary award Conversion rate BSP outcome Andrew Sukawaty 1,181,148 100% 1,181,148 Rupert Pearce 676,500 100% 676,500 Tony Bates 450,000 100% 450,000 As the conversion from monetary award to shares is calculated after the preliminary results announcement is made, the exact number of shares to be awarded is not known at the date of this report.
Details of shares awarded will be reported via an RNS to the London Stock Exchange.
These shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2016, 2017 and 2018, subject to continued employment.
Details of the shares awards including performance targets will be included in the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2012 PSP VESTING On 30 March 2012, the then Executive Chairman and CEO received PSP awards of 304,663 and 135,462 shares.
Vesting of the awards was dependent on 3-year TSR vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and 3-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2014 and weighted equally.
There was no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 350 50% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
50% Less than 1%: nil vesting 1%: 0% vesting 4%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 1% and 4% Excluding exceptional income of $192.6m from LightSquared in 2011, over the three years to December 2014, Group EBITDA increased from $661.8m to $701.0m, a compound annual growth rate of 1.94%.
This level of performance falls within the 1-4% range set at the time the award was made in March 2012 and leads to a 15.97% vesting of the total award.
In respect of relative TSR, the Companys performance was at the 67th percentile vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts, which gave a vesting outcome of 38.5% of the total award.
The total amount that will vest on 30 March 2015, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 54.47% of the maximum award.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2014 AUDITED BSP award in respect of 2013 An allocation of shares was made in respect of the March 2013 BSP monetary awards based on Company performance for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The share award was based on the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 2014.
As advised in the 2013 Annual Report the conversion rate was 73% of the monetary amount into an award of shares which vest in equal tranches in March 2015, 2016 and 2017, subject to continued employment.
Maximum Date of Awards made Market price at Face value at Executive Director monetary award Conversion rate share award during the year date of award date of award Andrew Sukawaty 1,618,000 73% 8 March 2014 171,369 6.89 1,181,200 Rupert Pearce 676,500 73% 8 March 2014 71,649 6.89 493,845 The awards were made to Mr Sukawaty when he was the Executive Chairman of the Company.
2014 PSP In March and June 2014, the Executive Directors received PSP share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2016.
Awards made Market price at Face value at Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award Award as % of salary Vesting date Andrew Sukawaty 19 March 2014 176,207 6.97 1,229,484 200% 19 March 2017 Rupert Pearce 19 March 2014 96,954 6.97 676,496 150% 19 March 2017 Tony Bates 10 June 2014 58,919 7.63 449,993 100% 10 June 2017 Mr Sukawaty remained in an executive position until 31 December 2014.
He will therefore be entitled to a pro-rata PSP award of one-third of the award shown above which will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance conditions being achieved.
Mr Bates was appointed to the Board as CFO in June 2014, and received an award of 100% of salary shortly after his appointment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 Vesting of the awards will be dependent on 3-year TSR vs. the FTSE50-150 excluding investment trusts and 3-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2016 and weighted equally.
There will be no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 50% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
50% Less than 5%: nil vesting 5%: 0% vesting 8%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 8% PENSION AUDITED The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys dened contribution pension plan arrangements.
None participate in the dened benefit plan.
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional salary.
An amount of 12.5% of capped salary is the highest amount paid.
The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
Pensionable salary is currently limited to basic salary and subject to a UK Pension Plan Scheme Specic cap and US Internal Revenue Service earnings caps.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK dened contribution pension plan: Mr Sukawaty was a member of the US 401 K plan until the end of 2014 at which point he became a deferred member of the plan.
Mr Sukawaty was entitled to an annual salary supplement equal to 12.5% of the difference between his basic salary and the US Internal Revenue Service capped basic salary in lieu of the employer pension contribution.
The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55.
In the US plan, the normal retirement date is age 59.5.
There are no additional pension benets payable if a Director retires early.
The current employer contributions subject to the UK Pension Plan Scheme Specic cap of 145,200 for the 2014 15 tax year and US Internal Revenue Service earnings caps as appropriate are: Andrew Sukawaty 12.5% of capped salary was paid in 2014, which is 88,000 in employer contributions Rupert Pearce 12% of capped salary was paid in 2014 which is 16,000 in employer contributions the contribution rate was 10% for the first two months and 12.5% for the remainder of the year Tony Bates 12.5% of capped salary was paid in 2014 which is 9,000 in employer contributions in respect of the period from 2 June to 31 December 2014 EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR AUDITED Mr Medlock, who resigned as a Director and left on 3 January 2014, did not receive any exit payments in 2014.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to past Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS One Executive Director held positions in other companies as a Non-Executive Director during the year.
The fees he received relating to the 2014 financial year were as follows: Name Company in which Non-Executive Directorship held 2014 fee Andrew Sukawaty Ziggo B. V. 77,750 Sky plc 58,166 IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2015 Base salary The table below shows the Executive Directors salaries as at July 2013 and July 2014.
Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2015, which is the same time for the general workforce.
Salary at Salary at 1 July 2014 1 July 2013 Name 000 % change 000 Rupert Pearce 519 15% 451 Tony Bates 450 78 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED We have already indicated to shareholders that the Committee expects to increase Mr Pearces salary each year to reect his demonstrated development in the CEO role and the performance of the business.
Mr Pearce was appointed on a salary that was signicantly below the median level for a FTSE 50-150 CEO, and the Committees original intention was to increase salary by around 10% in July 2013 in light of strong individual and Company performance.
However, no increase was awarded, in line with the salary freeze for the wider employee population, and the Committee advised last year that a higher than normal increase might be awarded in 2014 and 2015 to move to a more appropriate level of salary for Mr Pearce.
In this context, the Committee increased Mr Pearces salary by 15% to 519,000, effective 1 July 2014.
This increase reects Mr Pearces continued strong performance in his role and significant contribution to the business, and takes into account last years salary freeze.
A salary of 519,000 remains below median for a FTSE 50-150 CEO.
The salary increase applied across the business in 2014 excluding that for the Executive Director was around 7%.
Both the CEO and CFOs salaries will next be reviewed in July 2015, taking into account market pay levels and pay increases for the wider employee population.
Pension Cash payments in lieu of employer pension contributions for 2015 will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy table set out on page 67, and will be on the same basis as those made in 2014.
Annual cash bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2015 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2014, and will be 125% of salary.
As part of a process of refocusing on Group performance and more closely aligning the bonus schemes across the Group, for 2015 performance will be measured by reference to revenue 33% and EBITDA targets 67%.
The Committee believes that operating expenditure a previous metric is fully captured within the EBITDA metric.
Capital expenditure, which by its nature is mainly driven by multi-year major programmes will now be addressed through the long term incentive plan objectives.
The reason for using revenue and EBITDA is that these two measures have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two of our key reporting metrics to shareholders.
The Committee has the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees.
As was the case last year, the Committee has determined that performance targets will not be disclosed on a prospective basis for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2015 SHARE AWARDS: BSA In March 2015, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately.
As in previous years, the level of award will not be confirmed until the results for 2015 have been determined and may be lower but not higher than the initial award.
There is no change to the vesting timetable: the shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2017, 2018 and 2019, subject to continued employment.
This change, permitted by the Remuneration Policy, has been made in order to more closely align the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period.
It is expected that the level of award in March 2015 will be 200% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively.
The performance targets will be the same as the financial targets for the 2015 annual bonus, being 67% on EBITDA and 33% on revenue.
PSA A PSA award will be made in March 2015, and it is expected that the level of award will be 200% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates.
The PSA awards for 2015 will vest after three years based upon three performance conditions, measured over the three years to 31 December 2017.
For 2015 the performance conditions include: a. TSR performance vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts : b. EBITDA growth: and c. An additional metric reecting the long-term nature of the Companys business model.
The Committee believes that it is important for management to be additionally focused on delivering critical strategic programmes, e. g. the launch of new satellites, ground infrastructure and business models as part of their long-term incentive plan which in turn will drive long-term shareholder value creation.
40% of the total award is currently linked to this metric.
The Committee considers that the emphasis on strategic objectives may increase over time and remains open to considering other financial metrics for future awards.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 Performance in relation to the 2015 awards will be measured over the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017, and the targets are as follows.
Performance measure Weighting % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 4%: nil vesting 10%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 4% and 10% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: completion of the successful launch and market entry for the next generation of Inmarsat-5 satellites S-band: putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation leadership programme business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017 L-band: sustaining L-band revenues despite migration of services from L-band to Global Xpress Ka-band, through a re-orientation, expansion and globalisation of L-band services Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specic objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Fees paid as follows for a NED: Amount Basic fee 51,500 Chairman of Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10,000 Chairman of Nominations Committee 5,000 Committee membership per Committee 4,500 Deputy Chairman SID inclusive of all additional Committee fees 96,908 Chairman 295,000 Fees will next be reviewed in July 2015 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman also receives international healthcare cover 14,555 in 2014.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the Companys performance over the last six years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance against a broad equity market index.
We have also shown the median of the FTSE50-150 excluding investment trusts, because it aligns with the TSR comparator group used under the PSA and closely matches the market size of our business.
Note, the constituents of the FTSE 50-150 are based on the companies ranked 50th to 150th as at 31 December 2008, excluding those that have delisted since.
The date of selection of constituents within that group will be updated from time to time to ensure it appropriately reects our FTSE 50-150 TSR comparator group.
250 Inmarsat plc FTSE 350 xIT Index Median of FTSE 50-150 xIT 200 150 100 50 Source: Bloomberg 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 80 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CEO SIX-YEAR EARNINGS HISTORY AUDITED The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the previous six financial years is shown in the following table.
The information shows single gure remuneration, the annual bonus outcome as a percentage of the maximum, the short-term share award and the long-term share award vesting outcomes as a percentage of the maximum.
For the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Chairman and Chief Executive was the same individual reecting a salary for the combined role: Andrew Sukawaty AS.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
2 We are only required to show the single gure remuneration for each year for the Chief Executive but, as in 2012, 2013 and 2014, Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman, we have therefore also included the single gure for his remuneration.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
Change in remuneration from 2013 to 2014 CEO Other UK employees 2014 2013 % % 000 000 change change 3 Salary 484.8 451.0 7.5% 1% 1 Taxable benets 1.9 1.9 0% 1.2% 2 Short term incentives 1,298 962.8 34.9% 18.6% Total 1,785.7 1,415.7 79.28% 5.98% 1 Taxable benets represents healthcare benets: for the CEO it is different compared to the single remuneration gure as the amount excludes costs for staff entertainment.
2 Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 plus the monetary value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Plan corresponding to the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
3 The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year.
4 The reporting periods are 1 January to 31 December 2013 and 2014.
5 Effective July 2014, salary increases of approximately 7% to the eligible Other UK employee workforce were awarded.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spent as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
US$m 700 656.6 560 420 424.7 280 244.8 237.3 213.1 202.6 140 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 0 1 Total employee pay Dividends and share buy-back Capital expenditure on an accruals basis 3% decrease 5% increase 35% decrease 1 Total employee pay takes account of the impact of the disposal of the retail energy operations offset by the acquisition of Globe Wireless resulting in a lower average headcount.
