74 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT KEITH LUDEMAN Chairman of the Remuneration Committee our revised Policy on Directors Remuneration, which sets CHAIRMANS SUMMARY STATEMENT out our proposed future remuneration policy pages 76 to 86 Dear Shareholder which will be put to a binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM: and I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on directors remuneration, having succeeded our Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how David Thorpe as Remuneration Committee Chairman on our previously approved policy was implemented in 2014 9 July 2014. and how the new policy will, subject to approval, be applied in 2015 pages 87 to 101.
This will be put to an advisory As described in the Strategic Report, 2014 has been a significant shareholder resolution.
year in terms of delivering against our growth strategy.
In continuing challenging market conditions, we have continued 2014 remuneration payments to target and achieve above market levels of growth and Annual Variable Pay profitability from our portfolio of businesses.
This is as a result of establishing strong core businesses that draw upon our Supporting our strategy of delivering profitable growth and pursuing a progressive dividend policy, Annual Variable Pay for distinctive commercial skills and growing in adjacent markets and geographies.
Furthermore, our operations are underpinned the year under review was to be earned based on performance against a challenging range of Normalised EPS growth targets by a strong balance sheet which enables our continued focus on delivering a progressive dividend policy.
Only modest payments could be earned for achieving budgeted performance levels with a In relation to the execution of our strategy, 2014 can be seen maximum payout requiring substantial out-performance of our as a successful year.
In particular, the 250 million acquisition budget.
In practice, we achieved Normalised EPS for the 2014 of the facilities services business of Rentokil Initial plc in financial year of 58.8p per share being a 23.27 per cent growth March, followed in December by securing 25 per cent of on the 2013 result which resulted in Annual Variable Pay being the Governments outsourcing of the probation service and earned against the targets set of 62.59 per cent of the maximum completing the acquisition of The Employment and Skills being 100 per cent of basic annual salary for each of the Group esg, have all further contributed to achieving a executive directors.
business that continues to grow in terms of its scale, breadth and sophistication.
Long-term variable pay Further supporting our targeted objective of delivering The change in the scale, breadth and sophistication of our long-term profitable growth, our 2012 long-term incentive Company resulted in the Remuneration Committee reviewing arrangements required a combination of Normalised EPS growth the directors remuneration policy during the year under review.
to be achieved along with creating above-market total returns This was the first comprehensive review undertaken since 2012 for our shareholders for maximum payments to take place.
and also timely given our existing long-term incentive plan is Based on the performance achieved against the targets set due to expire in 2016.
The outcome of this review was that a over the three-year period ending 31 December 2014, these number of modifications to our current remuneration policy and awards will vest at 54.23 per cent of the maximum.
This level practices should take place.
The key changes are summarised of vesting is reflective of a period of strong underlying financial below, along with the relationship between performance and performance driven by effective leadership.
During the threereward in 2014, with full details included in the wider Directors year period, revenue and headline earnings per share increased Remuneration Report.
by 43.0 per cent and 27.6 per cent respectively from 2.3 billion and 46.1p per share to 3.3 billion and 58.8p per share.
At the Given that we are seeking to make changes to our same time as driving forward revenue and earnings, we disposed remuneration policy for the current financial year, the Directors of our PFI portfolio for 170 million, reduced the net pension Remuneration Report that follows has been split into two parts: deficit to 3.8 million, diversified our funding relationships OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 75 through a US$350 million private placement and a 74.8 million 3.
The current long-term incentive plan will be proposed for equity issue, and acquired BEST Interserve Working Futures, renewal at the 2015 AGM on broadly the same terms as the Paragon, Advantage Healthcare Interserve Healthcare, existing plan noting it is due to expire in 2016, albeit with TOCO, Topaz Adyard, Initial Facilities and The Employment a reduction in the threshold vesting target as it currently and Skills Group esg and significantly expanded our facilities applies to the TSR performance condition from 30 per cent management footprint in the Middle East.
This combination of to 25 per cent to bring it into line with current institutional robust financial performance and effective leadership resulted investors expectations.
in growth in TSR of 111.6 per cent, being within the top quartile 4.
The holding period and current recovery and withholding against our sector-based peer group, over the three-year provisions i. e. clawback and or malus under the long-term performance period.
incentive plan are to be enhanced so that they operate In light of the performance achieved, the Remuneration for a period of two years from the relevant receipt date Committee is satisfied that the above reward outcomes are of incentive payments from the current one-year period.
Higher share ownership guidelines are to operate at 200 per cent of salary increased from 100 per cent of salary.
Review of remuneration policy As described above, the Company has been transformed in 6.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the changes set terms of the scale, breadth and sophistication of its operations out in paragraph 2 will come into effect as of 1 January 2015 in recent years, currently employing c80,000 people in over and in paragraphs 3 to 5 to awards to be granted after 40 countries.
Mindful of this change, and the fact that a formal remuneration The above changes, which continue to weight remuneration review had not been undertaken since 2012, the Remuneration towards long-term performance and enable variable pay Committee undertook a comprehensive review of remuneration to be recovered and or withheld in certain circumstances, policy and practice during 2014.
The review considered i are considered to remain appropriate for a Company that the need to continue to align remuneration policy with the continues to target the delivery of long-term profitable growth Companys strategy: ii the increased responsibilities of each of for shareholders.
Challenging performance targets weighted the senior executives in light of the factors noted above: iii the towards our key internal measure of financial success, i. e. need to retain and motivate our highly regarded executive team Normalised EPS, as summarised in the Annual Report on in the current commercial context which has seen a number of Remuneration, will also continue to apply to variable pay in our competitors appoint new leadership teams: iv comparable 2015 in order to incentivise management to continue building a market rates of pay and v developments in institutional strong core business which delivers sustained earning growth to investors best practice expectations.
underpin our progressive dividend policy.
The key conclusions of this review in relation to executive Given the nature of the changes detailed above, and mindful directors included: of current sentiment surrounding executive remuneration, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Companys major 1.
Base salary levels should be revised to better reflect shareholders and the leading shareholder protection bodies individuals current roles and responsibilities.
Full details i. e. the Investment Association following its merger with ABI of the changes made to base salaries and how these relate Investment Affairs and ISS in relation to the above changes.
to individuals revised roles and responsibilities are set out The feedback from this consultation exercise was reflected in on page 87. the final decisions taken by the Committee e. g. the revised share ownership guidelines were set at 200 per cent of salary 2.
A nnual Variable Pay opportunity is to increase from 100 as opposed to 150 per cent of salary as originally proposed to 125 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive and the and, where required, the changes are reflected in the revised Group Finance Director.
The additional Annual Variable Pay Remuneration Policy, set out in detail on pages 76 to 86, for opportunity has been introduced to incentivise improved which we are seeking your support at the AGM.
performance in a number of strategic areas that the Board is targeting for improvement in 2015.
We believe our new Remuneration Policy achieves this aim and supports our strategic objectives and trust that you will endorse In addition, a toughening of the current approach to part it with a vote in favour at the AGM, as the directors intend to deferral of Annual Variable Pay earned will take place in do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
that executives will be required to continue to defer part of Annual Variable Pay even if the Companys increased share ownership guidelines have been met deferral does not Keith Ludeman currently apply once share ownership guidelines have been Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met.
A full summary of the revisions to Annual Variable Pay for 2015 is included on pages 80 and 81.
76 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY In this section we set out our remuneration strategy and policy, how the policy supports this strategy, how the Remuneration Committee intends to operate the policy, the selection of performance conditions, why we believe they both support the strategy and are appropriately stretching, together with other relevant information about the directors service agreements.
REMUNERATION STRATEGY Our Company strategy is to build strong core businesses that draw upon our distinctive commercial skills, growing our businesses in adjacent markets and geographies.
For shareholders we aim to deliver above market growth with a strong balance sheet and market profitability from our portfolio of businesses, supporting a continued progressive dividend policy.
The key to delivering our strategy is the need to retain and motivate stable leadership teams who understand and are able to apply the core skills and control framework of the business into adjacent markets in order to grow the business.
Our remuneration strategy is underpinned by remuneration packages which are designed to motivate and retain the high performing people necessary to deliver our strategy.
These remuneration packages: are simple and transparent, apply some way down the organisation and align with shareholders interests: reflect the views of our shareholders, shareholder protection bodies and other stakeholders: are designed to incentivise the delivery of above market growth in the short and medium term, without encouraging excessive risk taking and only deliver maximum rewards for exceptional performance against challenging targets: and provide further long-term focus through the reinvestment in, and holding requirement for, Company shares in the Annual Variable Pay scheme, the holding requirement for Company shares in the Performance Share Plan and the Shareholding Guidelines.
REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company with effect from 12 May 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on that day.
The following table summarises the main elements of the executive directors remuneration policy for 2015 onwards, the key features of each element, their purpose and linkage to our strategy.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the non-executive directors are set out on page 85.
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Base salary To recruit and retain Reviewed annually with any changes generally taking There is no prescribed maximum executives of a suitable effect from 1 July.
The Committee calibre for the role and is guided by the general increase Salaries are determined taking into account: duties required.
for the broader workforce but recognises that higher increases the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and Reflects the market may be appropriate where an market value of the executive: rate for the individual individual is promoted, changes the pay and conditions in the workforce: and their role.
role, where the size, composition pay relativities within the Group: and or complexity of the Group broadly the median position in light of remuneration changes or where an individual within other similar companies and the rest of the is materially below market Company: and comparators or is appointed on a below market salary with the affordability, given the profits of the Company.
expectation that his her salary Normally paid monthly in cash.
will increase with experience and performance.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 77 Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Benefits To provide benefits Car cash allowance and or company car and fuel The value of benefits may vary from commensurate to the or fuel allowance.
year to year depending on the cost market in which the to the Company.
Company operates Additional benefits may be and or the market in Permanent health insurance.
provided and the range of those which the director is benefits may vary taking into Life assurance.
based and in line with account market practice, the policies applicable Relocation expenses, allowance for disruption relevant circumstances and the to all other senior and ongoing expatriate benefits.
Directors and officers liability insurance.
Reasonable personal use of mobile telephone.
Small tokens with a value not exceeding 1,000 to mark significant events e. g. long service, retirement etc.
Pension To provide benefits A Company contribution calculated at up to 15% of Employers defined contribution and commensurate to the base salary for executive directors provided they are or pension cash supplement up to a market in which the making the maximum 8% employee contribution.
total maximum of 15% of base salary.
Employees whose pension provision exceeds HMRC limits are permitted to opt out of making pension contributions and instead receive the Company contribution as a non-enhanceable salary supplement.
Employees who elect to take the cash allowance still benefit from the life cover of four times base salary provided to members of the pension scheme and death-in-service cover.
Employees who have not chosen to opt out of making pension contributions are eligible to participate in the Companys SMART Pensions arrangement.
SMART Pensions is a salary sacrifice arrangement set up by the Company providing an option for employee pension contributions to be met by their employer following a corresponding sacrifice in their contractual pay.
This scheme affords the Company a saving in employers National Insurance contributions.
78 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Annual To incentivise the Targets are set by the Committee with reference to Maximum opportunity: Variable Pay achievement of annual stretching targets that are set annually by the Board.
125% of basic salary for the Chief targets, rewarding strong Executive and Group Finance Director For Variable Pay earned up to 100% of salary, a operational performance and 100% of basic salary for the majority if not all of the Variable Pay will be based in line with and in excess remaining executive directors.
on financial targets and a minority if at all of the of targeted performance Variable Pay may be based on other performance Entry level performance: and which promote the metrics linked to the business strategy.
No more than 10% of basic salary long-term success of in relation to financial targets.
For Variable Pay above 100% of salary i. e. for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, in A graduated scale of targets operates order to maintain a common set of targets across between entry level and maximum the executive team, supplementary stretching nonperformance.
financial targets are applied to the additional Variable Where non-financial targets are Pay opportunity beyond 100% of salary.
set, it may not always be possible Although Annual Variable Pay is deliverable in cash, to set a graduated scale of targets an element of any payment in excess of 25% of basic with some elements requiring a salary is required to be invested in Company shares in subjective assessment of the level accordance with the arrangements stated below: of performance achieved.
for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between 25% and 50% of basic salary, 30% of the net Variable Pay must be invested in Company shares and 70% may be retained: and for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between 50% and 100% of basic salary or, in the case of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, between 50% and 125% of basic salary, 50% of the net Variable Pay must be invested in Company shares and 50% may be retained.
Company shares so acquired must be held for three years and dividends will accrue on deferred shares.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to adjust the Variable Pay outcome up or down subject to the overall maximum set out in the adjacent column to ensure the payment is fair and appropriate in all the circumstances.
The Annual Variable Pay arrangements include provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid clawback or to withhold future Variable Pay awards malus in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for a period of two years after the date on which a payment is made.
Annual Variable Pay is not pensionable.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 79 Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Performance To provide a longer term PSP awards may be granted each year to Maximum: 150% of basic salary at Share Plan incentive to incentivise senior executives.
the date of grant for the executive PSP the executive directors directors, save in exceptional Awards will be made in the form of nil-cost options.
to achieving the Groups circumstances in relation to longer term objectives and recruitment or retention where an The awards will usually vest no earlier than the third promote the long-term award of up to 200% of basic salary anniversary of the date of grant, provided that the success of the Company.
at the date of grant may be made.
performance conditions have been satisfied over a three-year period commencing on 1 January in the To provide alignment with No more than 25% of any part of year of the award.
shareholders and provide a a performance condition can vest retention tool.
for achieving the threshold Post-tax vested shares must be retained for at least performance level.
a two-year holding period after vesting.
Dividends notionally accrue on awards from the date of award up to the earlier date of exercise of the nil-cost option or the conclusion of a holding period of up to two years from vesting and an equivalent cash sum will become payable on settlement to the extent that the shares ultimately vest.
The PSP includes provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid on vesting clawback or to withhold future variable pay awards malus in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for a period of two years after the date on which an award vests.
Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance against a challenging range of EPS and, separately, relative TSR performance targets.
EPS performance targets are set after having due regard to internal planning and market expectations for the Companys performance and relative TSR performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group.
No more than 25% of each part of an award may vest for achieving the threshold performance levels with full vesting for achieving the maximum performance targets under each element e. g. upper quartile TSR performance with graduated scales operating between performance points.
No awards vest for below threshold performance levels.
The Committee will review the performance conditions each year prior to awards being made e. g. to determine whether the TSR comparator group continues to remain appropriate, whether the range of EPS performance targets remains appropriate and, more generally, in light of the Companys long-term strategy and growth aspirations and may make appropriate revisions in light of developments in the Companys strategy.
Should there be a material change in the proposed performance conditions e. g. introducing an additional performance metric appropriate dialogue with the Companys major shareholders would take place along with a full explanation in the Annual Report on Remuneration to support any such change.
80 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity All-employee To support and encourage The Company currently provides two all-employee The executive directors are entitled share schemes share ownership by HMRC-approved share schemes for its employees, the to participate in both schemes on employees at all levels.
Interserve Sharesave Scheme 2009 the Sharesave the same terms as all other eligible Scheme and the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009 employees.
Maximum opportunity is the SIP.
the same for all participants as defined within the terms of the Under the Sharesave Scheme, eligible employees scheme and prescribed by HMRC.
may enter into a savings contract for a minimum fixed term of three years and at the end of the savings period they have the option to buy shares in the Company at an exercise price fixed at the start of the savings contract.
Under the SIP, eligible employees are offered the opportunity to invest pre-tax earnings subject to HMRC limits per tax year in Company shares under a regular monthly share purchase plan or by up to two lump sum payments per tax year or a combination of the two.
Shares so purchased are placed in trust.
The shares can be released from the trust to participants at any time, but income tax and national insurance contributions are payable on their value should they be released within five years of their purchase date.
The SIP rules also provide for matching shares and free shares up to certain prescribed limits to be given to participants.
Dividend payments on SIP shares are reinvested in dividend shares and must be held in the trust for three years.
Shareholding Under the Shareholding Guidelines executive directors are expected to build up over time a shareholding equivalent to guidelines 200% of their base salary.
Shares purchased under the Annual Variable Pay arrangements, the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme, vested awards under the PSP whether or not exercised, the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP also count toward this limit.
Share options, whether or not vested, do not count towards satisfying these Guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the requirement to invest Annual Variable Pay in Company shares and retain share awards on vesting in appropriate circumstances.
Notes to the table The remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives at Group Centre and Support Services were reviewed in August 2014.
As part of approving the above policy, which includes the amendments explained below when compared against the existing policy, the Committee also made a number of adjustments to individual executive director salary levels.
These are explained on page 87.
In light of the changes to executive directors overall remuneration packages, the Committee resolved that during the three-year remuneration policy period that is expected to run from the 2015 AGM that, absent any significant event, future increases if any are anticipated to be in line with the increases awarded to the UK wider-salaried workforce.
With regards to performance conditions, the Committee will continue to select financial and, if appropriate, non-financial strategic measures as targets for Annual Variable Pay that are key performance indicators for the business over the short term.
In view of their increased responsibilities, the need to retain and motivate the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, comparable market remuneration packages and subject to approval of the new Remuneration Policy, the Committee intends to increase their maximum Variable Pay potential from 100 per cent of salary to 125 per cent of salary, to incentivise delivery against a number of the Companys non-financial key performance indicators, subject to appropriately stretching targets in respect of this additional 25 per cent.
No change in quantum for other executive directors at 100 per cent of salary is proposed.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 81 Tougher recovery and withholding clawback malus and deferral requirements are intended to apply to the Annual Variable Pay structure in 2015 which will see the recovery period extended in the event of a material misstatement of the annual results within a two-year period increased from one and a requirement to invest a proportion of post-tax Variable Pay in Company shares, regardless of whether or not the shareholding guidelines have been met.
For the long-term incentives, the Committee will select a combination of measures that provide a good focus on the outcomes of the Companys strategy together with sustainable improvements in long-term profitability together with appropriate and demanding targets in the context of the Companys trading environment and strategic objectives.
The Committee considers that, for awards made to date, a combination of normalised EPS and TSR for the Executive Board is the most appropriate measure of performance for awards made under the PSP.
The EPS target rewards significant and sustained increases in value and delivers strong line of sight, whilst the TSR performance condition provides balance by rewarding good relative stock market performance and introduces an element of share price-based discipline to the package.
The blend of these two complementary measures is considered to reduce the risk level of the PSP compared to the position if a single metric applied to the entire award.
No change to this approach is currently envisaged in 2015 and beyond.
The retention and withholding provisions are to be enhanced for future PSP awards so that they also operate for a period of two years from the relevant receipt date of incentive payments from the current one-year period.
Furthermore, in response to shareholder feedback during consultation over the changes to executive remuneration for 2015, a two-year holding period will apply to future PSP awards granted from 2015 to provide even greater alignment between our executives and shareholders over the long term.
In view of this increased holding period, vested but unexercised, PSP awards will be counted towards the shareholding guidelines.
Given the limited number of direct comparator companies to the Company, the relative TSR peer group is to be broadened from a small number of our competitors for the 2015 awards so that it comprises the FTSE 250 Index constituents excluding investment trusts.
Use of a broader TSR peer group is considered to have the potential to provide a keener alignment between performance and reward over the long term as it limits the potential for the performance of one or two companies to disproportionately impact the vesting result which had become the case in operating a small bespoke peer group.
There are no performance conditions for the Sharesave Scheme and SIP as they are all-employee share plans aimed at encouraging wider employee share ownership.
The remuneration policy for the executive directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for executive directors and other senior employees, such as the higher Variable Pay maxima for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and Variable Pay targets weighted 70 per cent on divisional and 30 per cent on Group performance, which the Committee believes is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Group.
In particular, as remuneration levels overall are higher, performance-linked variable pay comprises a much higher proportion of remuneration at more senior levels and there is more of a focus on Group results, rather than business unit or individual performance.
This provides a stronger alignment of interest between senior executives and investors.
Specifically, benefits provided to executive directors with the provision of a cash allowance and or company car benefit the element that is considered significant in value terms and limited to 30,000 are aligned with those provided to senior managers across the Group, as is participation in the PSP, which is limited to the top 130 or so senior employees.
Senior employees below Executive Board level are provided with lower levels of awards that may only have an EPS-based performance condition.
The Shareholding Guidelines, which are to be increased from the current 100 per cent of base salary to 200 per cent of base salary, are not applicable other than to the executive directors.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards that have either been set out in the previously approved remuneration policy or remuneration reports or disclosed to and approved by shareholders and in respect of outstanding share awards as detailed on pages 95 to 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
82 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1,270,578 DISCRETION RETAINED BY THE COMMITTEE 1,116,824 Remuneration payments can only be made if they are consistent 1,113,208 with the approved Remuneration Policy, the relevant plan rules or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
40% 766,086 Annual Variable Pay and Long-Term Incentive Plan flexibility 40% 40% 671,684 668,068 The Committee will operate the Companys incentive plans 23% according to their respective rules and consistent with normal 23% 23% market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules, where 22% 27% 420,578 22% 27% 22% 27% 366,824 relevant, including flexibility and discretion in a number 363,208 of respects and as set out in the respective plan rules.
In particular, but without limitation, the Committee has flexibility regarding: the testing of a performance condition over a shortened performance period: how to deal with a change 100% 55% 33% 100% 55% 33% 100% 55% 33% of control or restructuring of the Group as set out in more Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum detail on page 84 : determination of a good bad leaver for Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Equipment Services Support Services Developments and UK Construction incentive plan purposes: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, Assumptions: events and special dividends.
The Committee also retains the discretion to: Minimum fixed pay only, based on salary effective 1 January 2015 excluding any mid-year review, 15 per adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter cent of salary pension contribution or 15 per cent of weightings for the Annual Variable Pay arrangements and salary contribution in lieu of pension and benefits PSP, or to remove the effects of one-off events in relation received in the 2014 financial year.
to the PSP, if events occur that cause it to determine that the metrics are no longer appropriate and amendment On-target minimum plus 50 per cent of the maximum is required so they can achieve their original intended payout under the Annual Variable Pay scheme, and 65 per purpose: and cent PSP vesting.
waive some or all of the shareholding guidelines or Maximum minimum plus 100 per cent of the maximum the requirement to invest Annual Variable Pay in payout under the Annual Variable Pay scheme, and full Company shares and retain share awards on vesting PSP vesting.
Dividend equivalent payments provided for under the PSP have DIRECTORS REMUNERATION SCENARIOS been disregarded and no share price growth assumed for the The charts below show how the composition of the executive purposes of these charts.
directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance under the remuneration policy to be implemented SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY in 2015.
A substantial portion of the remuneration packages are ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE performance related and therefore this is illustrated for three different performance scenarios: minimum fixed pay only, onService contract policy target performance and maximum performance.
All newly-appointed executive directors will have contracts terminable at any time on up to one years notice.
Under the 2,169,259 terms of the contract, should notice be served by either party, the executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
1,420,694 38% 1,284,419 Contracts also contain the ability, at the Companys discretion, to make a payment in lieu of notice of up to of one years basic 22% 38% annual salary.
841,526 27% 32% 656,759 22% Details of the current executive directors service contracts 27% 32% are summarised on the following page.
Each contract has an 430,694 indefinite unexpired term and a notice period of one year.
LTIP Annual Variable Pay 100% 51% 30% 100% 51% 30% Fixed Pay Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Chief Executive Finance Director OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 83 Name Date of contract The table below summarises the policy on payments to S L Dance 10 January 2008 executive directors for loss of office.
The overriding principle T P Haywood 30 November 2010 will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements and B A Melizan 10 January 2008 determine on an equitable basis the appropriate treatment of deferred and performance-linked elements of the package, A M Ringrose 13 December 2001 taking account of the circumstances.
D I Sutherland 1 January 2011 Payments for loss of office can only be made if they are Copies of the service contracts are available for inspection by consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy or are shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of under review the terms of executive directors service contracts.
Failure will not be rewarded.
1 2 3 Element Resignation Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary after cessation Nil For existing directors up to one years basic Nil of employment salary.
Newly-appointed executive directors can continue to receive basic salary for the duration of their notice period of one year.
The Company will have the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice PILON comprising up to 12 monthly instalments of base salary which would be mitigated proportionate to income received through alternative employment.
Pension and benefits Nil For existing directors up to one years Nil benefits and pension.
For newly-appointed directors up to one years benefits and pension as part of the PILON as detailed above.
Annual Variable Pay Nil if the executive May be payable at the discretion of the May be payable at the discretion departs before the Committee based upon performance and of the Committee based on payment date unless pro-rated for the proportion of the financial performance pro-rated for the the Committee year worked.
No payment will be made in proportion of the financial year determines otherwise.
respect of any period of notice not worked.
Performance Share Plan All awards, including those Awards will lapse upon cessation of Awards may be exercised within which have vested but employment unless the Committee decides 12 months of the vesting date.
are unexercised will lapse otherwise in which case awards may be Where employment ends before immediately upon cessation exercised within 12 months of the vesting date.
the vesting date, awards may only of employment.
Where employment ends before the vesting be exercised to the extent that date, awards may only be exercised to the the performance conditions have extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied, but will be reduced been satisfied, but will be reduced pro-rata pro-rata based upon the period based upon the period of time after the grant of time after the grant date and date and ending on the date of cessation ending on the date of cessation of of employment relative to the three-year employment relative to the threeperformance period unless the Committee, year performance period unless acting fairly and reasonably, decides that the Committee, acting fairly and such a reduction is inappropriate in any reasonably, decides that such a particular case.
reduction is inappropriate in any particular case.
All-employee share schemes In accordance with the Sharesave and SIP scheme rules.
Other payments Nil Depending upon circumstances the Committee Nil may consider payments in respect of any statutory entitlements, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
1 For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct.
2 This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting lines, change in need for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-elected at an AGM.
3 For compassionate reasons such as death, injury or disability, retirement with the agreement of the employer.
Should a compromise agreement be reached with an individual, in terms of quantum it will be within the maximum amounts set out above.
84 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED There are no provisions in executive directors service agreements entitling them to terminate their employment or receive damages in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The Annual Variable Pay scheme does not include any provision entitling early or any payment to be made on a change in control of the Company.
In the event of change of control, PSP awards would be eligible to vest based on i the extent to which performance targets had been met, as assessed by the Committee, over the shortened performance period and ii subject to a pro-rata reduction for time which the Committee retains discretion to disapply if it considers it appropriate to do so.
As an alternative, and in agreement with an acquiring company, the awards may be replaced with equivalent awards in the acquiring companys shares.
The Sharesave Scheme provides that if a change in control of the Company occurs, any options may be exercised within a month or such longer period as the Board may permit up to a maximum of six months.
There are also rollover provisions similar to those under the PSP explained above.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION In cases where the Company recruits a new executive director, the Committee will follow the policy set out below to determine his her ongoing remuneration package.
In arriving at a total package and in considering quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
Element General policy Specifics Salary At a level required to attract the most Discretion to pay a lower basic salary with increases at a rate above appropriate candidate.
inflation over two to three years as the new appointee becomes established in the role.
Pension and benefits In line with Company policies.
Where appropriate, relocation expenses arrangements may be provided.
Annual Variable Pay In line with existing schemes.
Specific targets could be introduced for an individual where necessary for the first year of appointment if it is appropriate to do so to reflect Maximum opportunity 100% of base salary the individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they or in the case of a Chief Executive or Group joined the Board.
Finance Director, 125% of base salary.
Performance In line with Company policies and PSP rules.
An award may be made in the year of joining or, alternatively, the Share Plan award can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would be the Maximum award up to 200% of basic salary same as for other directors.
Other share awards The Committee may make an incentive Awards would, where possible, take into account the awards forfeited 1 or remuneration award to replace remuneration forfeited on in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
an executive leaving a previous employer, For unvested performance-related awards, awards of broadly similar where to do so would be in the commercial quantum allowing for the impact of any performance targets, with interests of the Company.
1 The Committee may make use of the flexibility provided in the Listing Rules to make such awards if deemed appropriate in terms of replacing forfeited variable pay.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue as appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Board is comfortable with the principle of executive directors sitting on another company board as a non-executive in order to assist with their development, subject to the prior approval of the Chief Executive and the Board.
Any fees earned in that capacity may be retained by the executive director.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 85 TERMS OF APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-executive directors are appointed initially until the first AGM of the Company following appointment, when they are required to stand for election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they are engaged by letters of appointment which are terminable upon one months notice by either party, without compensation, save for the Group Chairman whose appointment is terminable upon six months notice by either party, without compensation.
The dates of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out below: Name Date first appointed Date last re-elected Lord Blackwell 1 September 2005 13 May 2014 L G Cullen 1 October 2005 13 May 2014 A K Fahy 1 January 2013 13 May 2014 1 R J King 1 September 2014 n a K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 13 May 2014 1 N R Salmon 1 August 2014 n a 2 D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 13 May 2014 1 Russell King and Nick Salmon will be proposed for election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 12 May 2015.
2 David Thorpe resigned on 31 August 2014.
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and maintain The Group Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee There is no prescribed non-executives of a suitable without the Group Chairman present.
calibre for the role and The Committee is guided The remuneration policy for the non-executive directors, other duties required.
by the general increase in than the Group Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the the non-executive director Board comprising the Group Chairman and the executive directors.
market and for the broader employee population but Non-executive directors receive a fee for carrying out their on occasions may need to duties, together with additional fees for the Senior Independent recognise, for example, an Director and for those non-executive directors who chair increase in the scale, scope the primary Board committees i. e. Audit and Remuneration or responsibility of the role.
Other fees may be introduced if considered appropriate, for example in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, or new responsibilities being assigned in response to corporate developments.
The non-executive directors and the Group Chairman do not currently receive benefits, but the Board retains a discretion to introduce such benefits if considered appropriate e. g. paying reasonable travel expenses incurred undertaking Company business to keep individuals whole on a net of tax basis.
Small tokens with a value not exceeding 1,000 may be made to mark significant events e. g. long service, retirement etc.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board taking into account amounts paid by other similar-sized listed companies, the time commitment of the individual, role and responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed in detail biennially with an annual interim review.
86 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE VIEWS Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration we do run a biennial employee survey where employees are able to express their views on a range of issues including their own remuneration.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase as well as pay and conditions for the broader salaried employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive directors.
The Committee receives an annual report for all employees whose basic salary is in excess of 150,000 p. a. detailing the significant elements which make up total remuneration.
This enables the Committee to assess the impact of remuneration decisions upon the total cost of employment.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee considers any shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM as well as taking into account the general climate regarding executive pay.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any other shareholder meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
In view of the proposed adjustments to the executive directors base salaries and changes to the Remuneration Policy, the Committee Chairman and Company Secretary consulted with eight of the major shareholders who, between them, own around 37 per cent of the Company as well as the Investment Association following its merger with ABI Investment Affairs and ISS on the proposed revisions to the Remuneration Policy.
Whilst they were supportive of the proposals there was also desire amongst some for the executive directors to hold more Company shares.
This has been reflected in the Remuneration Policy through an increase in the Shareholding Guidelines from 100 per cent to 200 per cent of annual base salary, the requirement to continue to purchase shares from a proportion of any net of tax payments received under the Annual Variable Pay scheme, and a two-year holding period for any net of tax shares vesting under the PSP, even after the increased Shareholding Guidelines have been satisfied.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 87 primary focus in increasing salaries was to ensure that ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION appropriate relativities between the executive positions were achieved in light of their individual responsibilities.
The timing HOW THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY of the salary increases reflected the conclusion of the work WILL BE APPLIED FOR THE YEAR ENDING undertaken by the Committee with implementation taking place 31 DECEMBER 2015 following consultation with the Companys major shareholders and the leading shareholder protection bodies.
A summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy will be applied during the year ending 31 December 2015 is set In terms of the salary increases awarded to Adrian Ringrose and out below.
Tim Haywood, their executive responsibilities have increased as a result of the growth and enhanced breadth of service offering Salaries for executive directors achieved by the Group over the past three to four years, with Salaries are reviewed annually with increases effective from Mr Haywood also now championing the Groups SustainAbilities July of each year.
Bruce Melizans role has expanded significantly following the c50 per cent increase in the size of the Support The salaries for the executive directors are set out in the Services division following the Initial Facilities acquisition.
table below: Steven Dance champions health and safety within the Group, a role which has also expanded considerably as a result of Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Percentage recent acquisitions both in the UK and internationally, and Name change which previously fell within the remit of David Paterson until S L Dance 300,000 277,299 8.2 his retirement.
Dougie Sutherlands role includes leadership of M&A, the significantly expanded front-line services business and T P Haywood 360,000 335,465 7.3 leadership of UK Constructions operations which Mr Paterson B A Melizan 340,000 277,299 22.6 occupied until his retirement.
A M Ringrose 550,000 465,863 18.1 Following the consultation exercise with our major shareholders D I Sutherland 300,000 277,299 8.2 in relation to the above salary increases, consideration was given to the merits of phasing the adjustments to salary over a While the Committee is sensitive to the fact that the number of years.
However, in view of the factors noted above, percentages of salary adjustments above have the potential the Committee took the view that it needed to ensure that the to appear high in a wider market context, the salary increases executive directors remuneration was positioned appropriately were set to take account of the increased scale, breadth and at the current time to both retain and motivate the executive sophistication of the current business following a period of team.
This, in the opinion of the Committee, necessitated transformational growth at Interserve.
adjusting salaries in one step.
As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Tim Haywood is a non-executive director of Tarsus Group plc for introductory letter, a combination of organic growth in tandem which he receives a fee of 51,000 per annum.
Bruce Melizan is with targeted acquisitions e. g. Advantage Healthcare, Paragon, an unremunerated director of the Safer London Foundation.
TOCO, Adyard, Initial Facilities and esg have transformed the footprint of the Group.
As the Group has grown, only limited Annual Variable Pay revisions have taken place to take account of the increased The maximum Annual Variable Pay potential for the year responsibilities contained within individual roles e. g. salary ending 31 December 2015 will remain at 100 per cent of basic increases since 2008 have largely related to cost of living salary for Steven Dance, Bruce Melizan and Dougie Sutherland.
focused increases as opposed to reflecting changes within For Adrian Ringrose and Tim Haywood there is an additional the Group.
opportunity to earn up to a further 25 per cent of basic annual salary for delivery of personal targets in relation to specific Given the platform for further growth that has now been strategic areas which the Board is targeting for 2015. established, at a time when there have been material changes within the leadership teams of our comparator companies, The targets to apply to Annual Variable Pay earned up to the Committee considered it appropriate to bring current 100 per cent of salary are designed to provide a balance salary levels into line with individuals current roles and between incentivising profitable growth, through targeting responsibilities which also required addressing the shortfall in improved Normalised EPS defined as headline EPS adjusted remuneration that was identified during the Committees review to exclude IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial of remuneration vis--vis remuneration levels in appropriate instruments and any unbudgeted one-off contributions to EPS comparator companies.
This position has now been achieved which the Committee exercises its discretion to exclude up to with effect from 1 July 2014 based on the revised salaries set 80 per cent of the maximum, and the efficient use of capital out in the table above.
The level of salary increases awarded employed up to 20 per cent of maximum.
was informed by market data: however, the Committees 88 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The EPS targets will operate on a broadly consistent basis to Performance Share Plan 2014, with performance measured against a challenging sliding Awards will be made in 2015 to executive directors over 1 scale of Normalised EPS growth targets 10 per cent of salary shares worth 150 per cent of basic salary as at the date of is earned for achieving the threshold target through to 100 per grant, subject to the following performance conditions: cent of salary for achieving the maximum target.
With regard to the capital-employed targets, these will be measured based Earnings per share growth on capital-employed days compared against the Companys 1 Normalised EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of two-thirds over the performance period of shares subject to the award internal targets 33 per cent of this part of the Variable Pay is earned for delivering the threshold targeted improvement with Less than 18% 0% a sliding scale operating through to earning a maximum payment 18% to 32% 25% to 65% pro-rated for achieving the targeted improvements in full.
32% to 58% 65% to 100% pro rated 1 Normalised EPS is Headline EPS adjusted to exclude IAS 36 Impairment Greater than 58% 100% of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any unbudgeted 1 one-off contributions to EPS which the Committee exercises Normalised EPS is Headline earnings per share adjusted to reflect growth in its discretion to exclude.
underlying value created by a removing the impact of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments: and b recognising or removing oneSince disclosure in advance of the specific EPS numbers and off events at the judgement of the Committee.
For the 2015 awards vesting capital-employed targets included in these parts of the Annual in 2018, the Committee intends to exercise discretion such that the award will reflect the underlying earnings growth, in line with our strategic ambitions.
Variable Pay scheme are considered commercially sensitive, disclosure as to our performance against the targets set will In setting the above targets, the Committee considered the be set out in full retrospectively in the 2015 Annual Report on Companys internal planning expectations alongside current Remuneration subject to any price sensitivity considerations in consensus market expectations.
Having had due regard to respect of the capital-employed targets.
these factors, the Committee is comfortable that the targets are appropriately demanding, providing a realistic incentive These include: at the lower end of the performance range, but with full vesting requiring exceptional outperformance given the Position Metric current commercial environment.
Deliver the Boards SustainAbilities agenda Executive up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
This sliding scale of EPS performance and vesting is shown 2.
Achievement of Group Annual Safety Plan targets graphically below: up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
Deliver the Boards SustainAbilities agenda Finance up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
Achievement against personal objectives relating to improved financial processes and financial management 60% up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
40% This additional Variable Pay is to be earned based on clearly defined targets for each metric.
In relation to any payment in connection with the above targets, the Committee will retain 20% discretion to reduce these elements of Variable Pay to zero 18% 32% 58% if it considers it appropriate to do so in light of the Companys 0% overall financial performance achieved during the year.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% Adjusted EPS growth over performance period In relation to disclosure against the strategic targets noted Growth in normalised EPS will be determined by the Committee above, our expectations are that, as a minimum, commentary after verifying calculations made internally.
as to the extent of achievement against each objective will be included or, where possible, full disclosure will be provided where targets are not considered commercially sensitive in the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Percentage vesting for two-thirds of award OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 89 The Boards strategy continues to focus on delivering longThis sliding scale of TSR performance and vesting is shown term profitable growth and generating above market long-term graphically below: returns to our shareholders.
The ongoing use of EPS growth 100% targets and relative TSR targets is considered to provide 100% vesting at Upper Quartile alignment between the Boards strategy and the executives long-term reward.
The targets are weighted towards EPS 75% performance since this is the key metric targeted internally for growth and supports our objective of continuing to operate a progressive dividend policy.
50% Total shareholder return Vesting of the other third of an award will be dependent upon 25% vesting at Median 25% the Companys performance in terms of TSR, as measured against the TSR of each company in the FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts.
0% Median Upper Quartile Given the limited number of direct comparator companies, TSR ranking of the Company the use of the above broader TSR peer group is considered to have the potential to provide a keener alignment between performance and reward over the long term as it limits the Non-executive director fees potential for the performance of one or two companies to The fee levels for the non-executive directors for 2015 are set disproportionately impact the vesting result which had become out in the table below: the case in operating a small bespoke peer group.
Fee effective Fee effective TSR is calculated as the percentage change in the net return 1 January 2015 1 January 2014 Percentage Element change index from the start to the end of the three-year performance period commencing on the first day of the 2015 financial Fee paid to Group Chairman 165,000 150,000 10.0 1 year.
This measures the return to an investor on a holding of Base fee paid to other Interserve shares.
non-executive directors 50,000 45,100 10.9 Supplementary fees: The TSR performance conditions are set out in the table below: Senior Independent Director 7,000 7,000 nil TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Vesting percentage of one-third Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 nil Comparator Group over the performance period of shares subject to the award Remuneration Below median ranking 0% Committee Chairman 10,000 9,000 11.1 Median ranking top 50% 25% Nomination 1 1 Median to upper quartile ranking 25% to 100% pro-rated Committee Chairman See note See note n a Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% 1 The Group Chairman is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and receives 1 no supplementary fee for chairing this committee.
The return index at the start of the performance period is the average of the net return index over the three months preceding the start of the performance period.
The return index at the end of the performance period is the average of the return index over the last three months of the performance period.
Percentage vesting for one-third of award 90 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WAS APPLIED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 This section is audited.
The table below shows the remuneration paid to each director.
Further detail is included in the additional tables overleaf.
2 Nick Salmon was appointed on 1 August 2014.
3 David Thorpe resigned on 31 August 2014.
4 The share price used to calculate the value of shares for the 2012 PSP awards which will vest on 11 April 2015 was 583.02p, being the three-month average to 31 December 2014.
This will be adjusted in the 2015 report to reflect the actual value once the share price on the date of vesting is known.
The values above also include a dividend equivalent of 65.0p per vested share inclusive of the final dividend for 2014 which is subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
5 The share price used to calculate the value of shares for the 2011 PSP awards that vested on 20 April 2014 was the market value on that date, being 672.00p.
The values above also include a dividend equivalent payment of 61.0p per vested share.
For the amount realised on exercise, please refer to the PSP table on page 95.
6 Excludes SMART contributions but includes Company contributions where applicable see table included in the Directors Pension Entitlements section on page 93.
7 Includes 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
8 Includes 15 per cent salary supplement 27,528 in lieu of pension contributions for the period 1 May to 31 December 2013.
9 Gains made on the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme see table on page 98.
10 David Paterson retired on 30 April 2013.
He received no payment for loss of office.
His 2012 PSP awards have been scaled back in accordance with the rules of the scheme and with the good leaver provisions set out in the policy for payments for loss of office on page 83.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 91 Additional notes to the directors remuneration table 1.
Determination of 2014 Annual Variable Pay In the Circular to Shareholders seeking approval for the Initial Facilities acquisition, the Committee undertook to increase the Normalised EPS growth required to achieve entry, threshold and on-target performance for the EPS element of awards made under the Annual Variable Pay scheme should shareholders approve the transaction.
The performance measures were therefore adjusted as set out in the table below: Percentage of maximum Pre-transaction target Post-transaction target 1 1 Required performance Annual Variable Pay award Normalised EPS Normalised EPS Less than 95% of budgeted Normalised EPS 0% 49.1 pence 52.3 pence Between 95% and 100% of budgeted Normalised EPS 10% to 50% 51.7 pence 55.1 pence Between budgeted Normalised EPS and 135% of budgeted Normalised EPS 50% to 100% 69.8 pence 69.8 pence The revised performance targets were adjusted to take into account the planned additional earnings during the 2014 financial year from the Initial Facilities acquisition.
The Committee was comfortable that, following the adjustment, the targets remained equally challenging.
The Annual Variable Pay for 2014 was determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 31 December 2014.
The performance measures and targets, as well as performance against them, are set out below: Maximum annual award Actual annual award Metric Performance target Actual performance as percentage of salary as percentage of salary 1 Normalised EPS See above 58.8 pence per share 100% 62.59% 1 Normalised EPS growth of 23.27% 1 Normalised EPS is defined as Headline EPS adjusted to exclude IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any unbudgeted one-off contributions to EPS which the Committee exercises its discretion to exclude.
92 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In testing the performance condition, basic EPS was adjusted to 3.
D etermination of EPS performance conditions for awards take into account the change from IAS 19 to IAS 19R pensions made under the Performance Share Plan in 2014 and for the treatment of exceptional items and intangible In the Circular to Shareholders seeking approval for the Initial asset amortisation, the majority of which related to the Initial Facilities acquisition, the Committee undertook to increase the Facilities acquisition thus ensuring that the condition was Normalised EPS growth required to achieve the threshold and tested on a consistent basis.
Following this adjustment, growth on-target performance for the EPS element of awards to be in Normalised EPS over the three-year performance period for made to the executive directors under the Performance Share the 2012 award was 27.6 per cent.
Accordingly, 31.34 per cent Plan should the transaction be approved.
The revised targets of the EPS element of those awards will vest.
In making the set out below take into account the Committees view on the adjustment the Committee was comfortable that the degree additional earnings potential from the acquisition.
of stretch in the original performance target was maintained in light of the acquisition and the change in the accounting Pre-acquisition Normalised Post-acquisition Normalised Vesting percentage of 1 1 standard and took comfort from the fact that the same result EPS growth of the Company EPS growth of the Company two-thirds of shares over the performance period over the performance period subject to the award had been achieved as if Headline EPS had been used across the performance period i. e. the adjustments resulted in the Less than 32% Less than 40.46% 0% condition measuring underlying growth in EPS which was the 32% to 83% 40.46% to 83% 25% to 100% original intention when the target was set.
pro-rated Greater than 83% Greater than 83% 100% The TSR Performance Condition for one-third of the 2012 Awards 1 This condition is determined by comparing the Companys TSR Normalised EPS is defined as Headline EPS adjusted to reflect growth in underlying value created by a removing the impact of IAS 36 Impairment of performance to the TSR of each of a defined list of comparator assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments: and b recognising or removing one companies drawn from the Construction and Materials, and off events at the judgement of the Committee.
For the 2014 awards vesting Support Services sectors, comprising Atkins WS, Babcock in 2017, the Committee intends to exercise discretion such that the awards will International, Balfour Beatty, Capita Group, Carillion, Costain reflect the underlying earnings growth in line with our strategic ambitions.
Group, Kier Group, May Gurney Integrated Services, MITIE Group, Morgan Sindall, Mouchel Group, Rentokil Initial, RPS 4.
Determination of Performance Share Plan payments for 2014 Group, Serco and WSP Group.
The analysis below explains how the Performance Share Plan payments for the performance period ending 31 December 2014 TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Vesting percentage of one-third were determined.
Comparator Group over the performance period of shares subject to the award Below median ranking 0% The PSP awards granted on 11 April 2012 were based on performance over the three-year period from 1 January 2012 Median ranking top 50% 30% to 31 December 2014 and were subject to the following Median to upper quartile ranking 30% to 100% pro-rated performance conditions: Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% The EPS Performance Condition for two-thirds of the 2012 Awards Growth in TSR was 111.6 per cent over the three-year 1 Vesting percentage of two-thirds Normalised EPS growth of the Company performance period, which was in the upper quartile, over the performance period of shares subject to the award meaning that the TSR element of the awards will vest in full.
Less than 20% 0% 20% to 40% 20% to 50% pro-rated The 2012 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 11 April 2015 and 10 April 2017.
40% to 60% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 60% 100% 1 Normalised EPS is defined as basic EPS adjusted to remove the effect of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any return generated from the sale of the Groups PFI investments in excess of the internal rate of return as set by the Board of directors of the Company at the approval stage and any other items defined by the Committee.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 93 The 2012 PSP awards will therefore vest as follows: Dougie Sutherland also participated in the Companys SMART Bonus arrangement available to all employees receiving an Dividend equivalent on annual bonus.
The contribution paid by the Company in 1 Number of Number of Number of shares to vest respect of his SMART Bonus was 40,000 2013: 39,680.
Executive director shares granted shares to lapse shares to vest S L Dance 143,648 65,753 77,895 50,632 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions AVCs.
Neither the contributions nor T P Haywood 173,779 79,545 94,234 61,252 the resulting benefits of AVCs are included in the above table.
D I Sutherland 128,933 59,017 69,916 45,445 Defined Benefit Scheme 1 This includes a final dividend equivalent of 15.5p per share for the financial year Following the benefit changes to the Interserve Pension Scheme, ended 31 December 2014, the corresponding dividend of which is subject to Adrian Ringrose ceased to accrue any further benefits in the approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Accordingly, payment of this part of Defined Benefit section of the Scheme from 31 December 2009. the dividend equivalent will not be made until after the AGM.
His accrued pension at that date was 72,337 per annum and his pension will increase up to the point he draws his benefits 5.
Directors pension entitlements broadly in line with price inflation.
Defined Contribution Scheme As at 31 December 2014, all the executive directors were Performance graph deferred members of the Defined Contribution section of the The graph below shows the value, on 31 December 2014, of Interserve Pension Scheme prior to which only Steven Dance 100 invested in Interserve Plc on 31 December 2009 compared and Dougie Sutherland participated in the Companys SMART with the value of 100 invested in the companies comprising Pensions arrangement as detailed on page 77. the Support Services sector of the FTSE All-Share Index.
This was chosen for comparison because it is considered to be the The table below shows, for each executive director, the amount relevant benchmark against which to compare our performance.
by which their base salaries were reduced and paid by the Company into their pension scheme SMART contributions, together with the total contributions paid by the Company 500 Historical TSR Performance including SMART contributions but excluding SMART Bonus Interserve Plc 400 FTSE All-Share Support Services and AVC arrangements.
300 Company Total Company contributions contributions 200 excluding SMART SMART including SMART contributions contributions contributions Executive director Year 100 1 S L Dance 2014 10,399 2,101 12,500 0 2013 40,989 8,786 49,775 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 T P Haywood 2014 8,174 8,174 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 2013 49,587 581 50,168 3 B A Melizan 2014 2013 3 A M Ringrose 2014 2013 4 D I Sutherland 2014 2013 13,461 3,963 17,424 1 Steven Dance became a deferred member of the Scheme with effect from 5 April 2014 and received a 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension thereafter.
2 Tim Haywood became a deferred member of the Scheme with effect from 28 February 2014 and received a 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension thereafter.
3 Bruce Melizan and Adrian Ringrose became deferred members of the Scheme with effect from 1 January 2012 and 1 April 2012 respectively and received a 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension thereafter.
4 Dougie Sutherland became a deferred member of the scheme with effect from 5 April 2014 and received a 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension thereafter.
Value of hypothetical holdings 94 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Change in Chief Executive remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below provides a summary of the Chief Executives The table below illustrates the change in expenditure by the remuneration over the last six years: Company on remuneration paid to all the employees of the Group against other significant distributions and payments from 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 the financial year ending 31 December 2013 compared to the financial year ending 31 December 2014: Total remuneration 000 1,800 1,969 1,928 1,318 619 1,087 2014 2013 Percentage Annual Variable Pay million million change % of maximum 62.59% 59% 100% 100% 30% 98% Overall expenditure on pay 997.6 694.6 43.62 PSP vesting 1 Dividends paid 33.0 27.8 18.71 % of maximum 54.23% 100% 100% 50% 0% 50% 1 Including the final dividend for 2014 of 15.5p per share which is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration compared to employees Performance Share Plan The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief The following grants were made to the executive directors Executives salary, benefits and annual bonus between the under the PSP during the year: financial years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, compared to the percentage increase for UK Senior Management 1 Number Face value End of on a per capita basis : Executive director of shares performance period S L Dance 61,908 429,642 31 December 2016 31 December 2014 T P Haywood 74,893 519,757 31 December 2016 Percentage change B A Melizan 61,908 429,642 31 December 2016 Salary A M Ringrose 104,005 721,795 31 December 2016 Chief Executive 18.1 1 D I Sutherland 61,908 429,642 31 December 2016 Senior Management 15.1 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 13 May 2014, being 694.00p Benefits per share.
Chief Executive 12.8 1 Senior Management 10.1 Awards were made in the form of nil-cost options equivalent to 150 per cent of base salary, exercisable between 13 May 2017 Annual bonus and 12 May 2019.
Chief Executive 25.9 The performance conditions attached to these awards are set 1 Senior Management 22.3 out on page 96.
1 The comparator group relates to UK Senior Management rather than all Group Achievement of the minimum performance over the employees.
We have chosen this group because the Committee believes that it performance period would result in 26.66 per cent of the provides a sufficient comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of awards vesting on 13 May 2017 together with the corresponding underlying increases based on similar remuneration constituents applicable to Senior Management whilst reducing the distortion that would otherwise arise dividend equivalent.
from the changing mix between UK and overseas employees, the increase during the year in the white-collar salaried workforce resulting from the Initial Facilities acquisition and the mix of contract wins and losses.
This figure also includes a dividend equivalent payment of 61.0p per vested share.
The maximum number of shares that could be receivable by the executive if the performance conditions set out overleaf are fully met: 96 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2011 Awards Adjusted Headline EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of 50% of shares subject to the award Less than 15% 0% 15% to 30% 25% to 50% pro-rated 30% to 50% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 50% 100% The 2011 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 20 April 2014 and 19 April 2016.
2 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2012 Awards Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 20% 0% 20% to 40% 20% to 50% pro-rated 40% to 60% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 60% 100% The 2012 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 11 April 2015 and 10 April 2017.
3 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2013 Awards Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 49% 0% 49% to 58% 25% to 50% pro-rated 58% to 75% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 75% 100% The 2013 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 9 April 2016 and 8 April 2018.
4 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2014 Awards Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 40.46% 0% 40.46% to 83% 25% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 83% 100% The 2014 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 13 May 2017 and 12 May 2019.
These targets were adjusted in respect of the Initial Facilities acquisition.
For full details refer to page 92.
1234 The TSR Performance Condition This condition is determined by comparing the Companys TSR performance to the TSR of each of a defined list of comparator companies drawn from the Construction and Materials, and Support Services sectors comprising Atkins WS, Babcock International, Balfour Beatty, Capita Group, Carillion, Costain Group, Kier Group, May Gurney Integrated Services not after 2013, MITIE Group, Morgan Sindall, Mouchel Group not after 2012, Rentokil Initial, Rok not after 2011, RPS Group, Serco, Spice not after 2011 and WSP Group not after 2012.
TSR ranking of the Company compared to the comparator Vesting percentage of 50% of shares subject to the award group over the performance period Below median ranking 0% Median ranking top 50% 30% Median to upper quartile ranking 30% to 100% pro-rated Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% Vesting percentage of 50 per cent was replaced by one-third for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards.
The awards made in 2011 measuring performance over the three years to 31 December 2013 vested in full on 20 April 2014 as the Companys TSR performance was above the upper quartile top 25 per cent TSR performance against the peer group and EPS growth was greater than 50 per cent over the performance period actual growth 77.53 per cent, including credit for the realised value from PFI investments.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 97 Share options The number of options over shares in the Company pursuant to the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme held by each person who served as an executive director of the Company during the financial year, is shown below.
All options are fully vested, having achieved the respective performance conditions in previous financial periods.
No further grants will be made under this Scheme.
Market price Market price Amount Balance as at Granted at date Exercise Exercised at date Lapsed realised on Balance as at Date 1 January during of award price during of exercise during exercise 31 December Exercise Executive director granted 2014 year pence pence year pence year 2014 period S L Dance n a n a n a n a n a n a T P Haywood n a n a n a n a n a n a B A Melizan 14.03.05 75,140 358.25 359.33 n a 75,140 14.03.08 13.03.15 A M Ringrose 14.03.05 150,280 358.25 359.33 n a n a 150,280 14.03.08 13.03.15 D I Sutherland n a n a n a n a n a n a No options were granted during the year 2013: nil.
The aggregate gain made on the exercise of options was nil 2013: 711,673.
The market price of the shares as at 31 December 2014 was 557.50p.
The highest and lowest market prices of the shares during the financial year were 745.00p and 531.50p respectively.
2 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 30 September 2014, being 599.50p per share.
All eligible employees are entitled to apply for options under the Sharesave Scheme.
The maximum monthly savings amount is set annually by the Remuneration Committee within HMRC limits.
There are no performance conditions attached to these options.
The difference between the market price on the grant date and the exercise price is that, under the scheme rules, the exercise price is calculated by taking the average of the mid-market closing share price for the five dealing days immediately preceding the invitation date less a discount set by the Remuneration Committee of between 0 per cent and a maximum of 20 per cent.
A percentage of the Annual Variable Pay is required to be invested in Company shares and no fewer than 100 per cent of shares net of taxes following an option exercise or award vesting must be retained until such time as the shareholding guidelines have been met.
Shares purchased under the Annual Variable Pay arrangements, the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme, the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP count toward this limit.
Share options and awards under the PSP, whether or not vested, do not count towards satisfying the shareholding guidelines.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 99 Shareholdings of directors The beneficial interests of each person who served as a director of the Company during the financial year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, together with interests held by his connected persons, are shown below, together with details of the extent to which the executive directors have met the requirement to hold shares to the value of 100 per cent of salary: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding % shareholding % actual Beneficially Beneficially ESOS options PSP awards Sharesave options requirement shareholding 4 Director owned owned vested unvested vested unvested vested unvested % of salary fee % of salary fee Executive directors S L Dance 101,710 101,383 Not counted Not counted 100% 198% T P Haywood 54,143 29,390 Not counted Not counted 100% 88% B A Melizan 104,050 101,183 Not counted Not counted Not counted 100% 178% A M Ringrose 434,579 400,809 Not counted Not counted Not counted 100% 461% D I Sutherland 104,467 98,868 Not counted Not counted 100% 203% Non-executive directors Lord Blackwell 10,995 10,000 n a n a L G Cullen 12,582 10,000 n a n a A K Fahy 8,000 n a n a 1 R J King 3,000 n a n a K L Ludeman 4,990 3,000 n a n a 2 N R Salmon 5,000 n a n a 3 D A Thorpe 14,783 12,793 n a n a 1 As at 1 September 2014, when Russell King was appointed to the Board.
2 As at 1 August 2014, when Nick Salmon was appointed to the Board.
3 As at 31 August 2014, when David Thorpe retired from the Board.
4 Using a share price of 583.02p, being the three-month average to 31 December 2014.
The above figures include shares held in trust pursuant to the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009.
Between the year end and the date of this report Steven Dance, Tim Haywood, Adrian Ringrose and Dougie Sutherland have each purchased additional shares pursuant to the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009, as shown below: Purchase price Number of Beneficial holding as Date of purchase pence shares acquired at 26 February 2015 S L Dance 15.01.2015 507.30 25 11.02.2015 544.00 23 101,758 T P Haywood 15.01.2015 507.30 30 11.02.2015 544.00 28 54,201 A M Ringrose 15.01.2015 507.30 25 11.02.2015 544.00 23 434,627 D I Sutherland 15.01.2015 507.30 1 104,468 There have been no further changes in the shareholdings of the directors who held office at the year end.
100 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee meets as often as is necessary to discharge OTHER INFORMATION its duties and met 12 times during the year ended Dilution limits 31 December 2014.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Under present dilution limits the Company is permitted to Director may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
allocate a rolling ten-year aggregate of up to 10 per cent of its ordinary share capital 14,391,761 shares under all its share No member of the Committee has any personal financial schemes.
At 31 December 2014 there remained headroom interest in the Company other than as a shareholder, any equivalent to 3,080,359 shares over which options may be conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships, or any granted under the Companys share schemes.
day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No individual is present when matters relating directly to their own It is currently anticipated that all exercises of options and remuneration are discussed.
awards made under the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan will be satisfied by newly Advisers issued shares.
In determining the executive directors remuneration, the Committee consulted with and received recommendations GOVERNANCE AND OPERATION OF THE from Adrian Ringrose, the Chief Executive.
The Committee also received advice from New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name REMUNERATION COMMITTEE of Aon Hewitt a subsidiary of Aon plc, and Trevor Bradbury, the Role and membership Company Secretary, which materially assisted the Committee in The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the relation to the 2014 financial year.
Executives are not present Board, the remuneration of all executive directors, the Group when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are decided.
of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Aon plc also provides insurance broking services to the Company though a separate business division to Aon Hewitt.
The The Committees role is, after consultation with the Group Committee has been advised that NBS operates as a distinct Chairman and or the Chief Executive except when determining business within the Aon Group and that there is a robust their own remuneration, to set the remuneration policy and separation between the business activities and management of determine the individual remuneration and benefit packages NBS and all other parts of Aon Hewitt and the wider Aon Group.
of the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and the senior The Committee is satisfied that these additional services in no management team comprising the executive directors, the way compromised the objectivity and independence of advice Company Secretary and the other senior executives below provided by NBS.
the Board who report to the Chief Executive.
This includes formulating for Board approval long-term incentive plans which The terms of NBSs appointment and their performance is require shareholder consent and overseeing their operation.
reviewed regularly by the Committee.
The Committee also monitors the terms of service for, and level NBS meets either on a one-to-one basis with the Committee and remuneration structure of, other senior management.
Chairman, or with the Company Secretary present, as The table below lists the members of the Committee who necessary, to discuss matters such as topical issues in served during the year and are regarded as independent by the remuneration which are of particular relevance to the Board.
Their attendance at the meetings of the Committee was Company or if there are specific pieces of work which the as follows: Committee requires to be undertaken.
Number of meetings attended Name out of potential maximum K L Ludeman Committee Chairman from 9 July 2014 12 12 Lord Blackwell 12 12 L G Cullen 12 12 A K Fahy 12 12 1 R J King 4 4 2 N R Salmon 5 5 3 D A Thorpe Committee Chairman until 8 July 2014 7 8 1 Russell King was appointed on 1 September 2014.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 101 The total fee paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year was 122,989 2013: 21,505.
These fees relate to sundry ongoing advice, in line with NBSs role of providing ongoing support and advice to the Committee over the entire remuneration year.
This included: performance monitoring of the TSR element of the Performance Share Plan: review of vesting documentation for the Performance Share Plan: IFRS 2 option valuation: assistance with the remuneration review for senior managers, including the executive directors: assistance with the drafting of the Directors Remuneration Report: and the provision of updates on developments in remuneration practice.
Any fees for major projects would normally be negotiated in advance of such a project being undertaken.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and has confirmed its compliance with the Code.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM At the AGM held on 13 May 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: Total votes cast Votes Resolution text Votes for % for Votes against % against including votes withheld withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 93,059,430 98.0 1,697,625 1.8 94,931,945 174,890 Annual Report on Remuneration 93,775,951 98.8 975,177 1.0 94,931,946 180,818 Shareholder engagement During the year the Committee consulted with shareholders on the proposed revisions to the remuneration packages of the executive directors as explained in more detail on page 87 of this report.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Keith Ludeman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2015
