Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, Mary Harris In the current competitive environment Chairman, Remuneration Committee it is vitally important that our remuneration policy is aligned to our business objectives and is motivational for our executives to ensure that we grow the business and deliver returns to shareholders over the longer term.
During the year we delivered good performance, I am very pleased that Mike will be leading the The changes we have made during the year despite tough trading conditions.
As summarised Company through its next chapter.
Following his support the over-arching principles of our on page 56, we have increased retail sales by 2.7 appointment as Chief Executive, his salary will be remuneration policy which are to balance reward per cent including VAT, excluding fuel, improved 900,000 per annum, reflecting his experience and with performance, drive the achievement of our underlying profit before tax by 5.3 per cent and knowledge of Sainsburys.
While the total variable business objectives and encourage sustainable maintained our market share at 16.8 per cent.
pay opportunity as a percentage of base salary shareholder value creation.
Thisperformance has been reflected in the level remains the same as Justins, we have rebalanced ofpayments under our incentive plans.
this towards the longer-term element of the In addition, to ensure we are being appropriately package, to align his interests with the long-term advised, we reviewed the remuneration advisers to Annual bonus our profit growth over the year interests of shareholders.
Following an extensive tender has resulted in a bonus pool of over 80 million, process, we reappointed Deloitte LLP, who the which was shared by colleagues across the The Committee receives regular updates on the Committee believes provides robust, objective, business.
For the Executive Directors the pay and conditions of colleagues throughout the independent advice.
payments were between 60 and 65 per cent of Company and our normal approach to pay awards the maximum compared to between 84 and is for increases to Executive Directors to be in line The Directors Remuneration Report, consisting 87per cent last year.
with colleagues, unless there are exceptional of this Annual Statement, the Directors circumstances.
Following the most recent annual Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Deferred Share Award following the delivery of review we have increased John Rogers salary to Remuneration, is compliant with the new reporting strong financial, strategic and relative 600,000, reflecting his expanding role on the requirements.
Unfortunately by necessity this has performance during the year, awards were made Board and also in light of the full purchase of the made the report longer but we hope that you find at 80 per cent of the maximum compared to Bank.
He is now responsible for a larger consolidated the additional information and analysis useful.
Group and he has a particularly important role Toassist shareholders, we have provided overleaf Value Builder in May 2014, the sixth cycle of with the Bank, being the only Group Director to sit asummary of our performance, the payments Value Builder, in which over 230 managers on theBank Board.
John is a high performing and for2013 14 and the structure of remuneration participate, will mature at a performance well-respected CFO in the marketplace and this arrangements for 2014 15. multiplier of 1.6 times 40 per cent of the adjustment recognises his growth in the role and maximum, reflecting our performance over the most importantly his increased responsibilities.
I hope you can see from this report that we previous three years.
remain committed to being focused on pay for During the year, we also undertook a review of our performance and rewarding the leadership team The last year was particularly busy for the long-term incentive plan Future Builder.
We in a way which aligns with the experience of Committee.
In January, we announced that Justin reviewed the plan and the performance targets to long-term shareholders, while staying true to our King will be stepping down as Chief Executive in ensure they support our business plan and align Company values.
The Committee carefully considered Justins the interests of executives and shareholders.
leaving terms, together with the remuneration Following conversations with our shareholders, we arrangements for Mike Coupe, who succeeds him.
have increased the threshold and maximum Cash The details were included in the announcement at Flow hurdles by 250 million the range is now the time and are repeated in the Annual Report on 5,750 million to 6,750 million.
The agreed departure terms for relative sales targets remain unchanged.
Prior to Justin ensure that any remaining payments to any vesting for this award, the Committee must him are aligned with the performance of the also be satisfied that the Companys underlying Mary Harris Company following his departure.
performance over the period justifies the level of Chairman, Remuneration Committee vesting.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 55 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of remuneration at Sainsburys focused on pay for performance How did we perform in 2013 14?
2 Underlying profit before tax: profit before tax before any profit or loss on the disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, retailing financing fair value movements, IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge, defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
3 IGD Market Track 51 weeks to 8 March 2014.
4 2012 13 KPIs have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 Revised.
5 Retail underlying operating margin: underlying profit before tax before underlying net finance costs and underlying share of post-tax results from joint ventures, divided by retail sales excluding VAT, including fuel.
How much were Executive Directors paid in 2013 14?
Justin King Mike Coupe John Rogers 000 000 000 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 Fixed pay Salary 960 940 587 575 520 510 Benefits 31 32 18 17 18 18 Pension 288 282 147 144 112 110 Performance-related pay Annual bonus Good profit growth and 60% 65% of max 781 996 318 449 282 390 delivery against customer andindividual objectives Deferred Share Award Exceeded targets providing strong platform for long-term 80% of max 960 975 423 430 374 381 performance focus on core Sainsburys values LTIP Value Builder Good progress on cash generation and returns generated 40% of max 925 1,141 516 588 407 357 in challenging environment Total pay 3,945 4,366 2,009 2,203 1,713 1,766 How will pay be structured in 2014 15?
Fixed pay Annual bonus Deferred Share Award Future Builder 2014 15 salary Cash bonus Shares deferred for two years Long-term share incentive Mike Coupe: 900,000 Profit, sales, customer and Basket of financial and strategic ROCE, Cash Flow and relative sales measured John Rogers: 600,000 personal performance measures over three years: 50% of shares retained for a further one-year holding period plus competitive benefits CEO: up to 110% of salary CEO: up to 110% of salary Core award: and pension CFO: up to 90% of salary CFO: up to 90% of salary CEO: up to 62.5% of salary CFO: up to 50% of salary Maximum of 4x core award Note: Figures for Mike Coupe relate to package on appointment as Chief Executive.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 56 Remuneration principles Our colleagues are central to the Companys ongoing success and This overall reward strategy is the foundation for the remuneration the Companys overall reward strategy supports this.
Our objective is policy for senior executives.
to have a fair, equitable and competitive total reward package that supports our vision of being the most trusted retailer where people The over-arching objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure love to work and shop, encourages colleagues to perform in rewards are performance-based and encourage long-term shareholder ways that deliver great service for customers, drives sales and value creation.
The remuneration policy for senior executives is based provides opportunities for colleagues to share in Sainsburys success.
on the following principles: Linked to business Supports Drives long-term Secures high Encourages strategy Sainsburys values growth calibre leaders share ownership Specifically built around Aligned to the Company Encourages the right Recruit and retain high Enables executives the five areas of focus values as outlined in our behaviours to deliver calibre leaders who can to become shareholders as described in the 20x20 Sustainability Plan long-term growth deliver operational in the Company Strategic Report excellence The Committee takes a rounded approach to pay and considers a variety of When reviewing or amending remuneration arrangements, the Committee factors when determining, and subsequently implementing, the remuneration considers pay practices across the Company, the impact on colleague behaviour, policy for senior executives.
It believes it is important to exercise suitable the cost to the Company, share dilution, stakeholder views including judgement at all stages during the process to ensure that executive pay shareholders, governance bodies and colleagues, best practice corporate levels appropriately reflect performance and are aligned with the interests governance and market competitiveness, particularly within the retail sector.
Italso considers the overall performance of the Company within the context ofthe retail market and the wider economic environment.
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the overall structure of remuneration for senior executives to ensure that it continues to evolve and is The Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report of Remuneration provide aligned to the corporate plan and business goals as well as supporting the further details of our approach to pay.
In line with the new regulations, at the interests of shareholders.
2014 AGM, the Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote and the remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 57 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The following sections set out our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the 2014 AGM.
Policy Table for Executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, with further details set out after the table.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Core element of remuneration used to attract and retain executives who can deliver our strategic objectives.
Operation Typically reviewed annually in March.
Consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including business and individual performance, role, responsibilities, scope, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Opportunity Salary increases in percentage of salary terms for Executive Directors will normally be within the range of those for the wider workforce.
There is no maximum salary opportunity.
Where the Committee considers it necessary and appropriate, larger increases may be awarded in individual circumstances such as: A change in scope or responsibility: If a new Executive Director is appointed at a lower rate and the salary is realigned over time as the individual gains experience in the role: or Alignment to market level.
Salary levels effective 16 March 2014: Justin King 960,000 Mike Coupe 587,000 increasing to 900,000 on 9 July 2014 on appointment as Chief Executive John Rogers 600,000 Performance details None Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Competitive benefits to assist in attracting and retaining executives.
Operation A range of benefits may be provided including, but not limited to, the provision of company car benefits or cash equivalent, private medical cover, life assurance, long-term disability insurance, all-employee share plan participation and colleague discount.
The Committee keeps the benefits offered, the policies and the levels provided under regular review.
Opportunity The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the context of relevant market practice for comparable roles and taking into account any individual circumstances e. g. relocation.
There is no maximum monetary value.
Participation in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plan is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
Performance details None Pension Purpose and link to strategy Provides an income following retirement and assists colleagues building wealth for their future.
Operation JS Self Invested Pension Plan SIPP, a defined contribution plan and or a cash salary supplement.
Opportunity Maximum value of up to 30 per cent of salary per annum for existing Executive Directors.
For new hires the nature and value of any pension provided will be, in the Committees view, reasonable in the context of market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Company.
Performance details None Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Rewards performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
Operation Performance measured over one year, bonus payable in cash after the year-end.
Bonus level determined by the Committee after the year-end based on performance against targets.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary per annum.
The level of payment for threshold performance varies depending on the performance measure, with payouts from zero per cent.
Full vesting requires outperformance of stretch objectives.
Maximum for 2013 14: Maximum for 2014 15: Justin King 125 per cent of salary Mike Coupe 110 per cent of salary Mike Coupe 90 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary Performance details Based on a combination of financial e. g. profit, operational e. g. customer, availability and individual metrics.
A profit gateway must be achieved before any bonus payments can be made.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year-on-year based on the Companys strategic goals.
At least half of any award will be subject to financial measures.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 58 Deferred Share Award DSA Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of short-term strategic and financial objectives which contribute towards long-term sustainable growth.
Balance with annual bonus to ensure management remain mindful of long-term consequences of short-term actions.
Awards delivered in shares to provide further alignment with shareholders.
Operation Performance measured over one year, after which award made as conditional shares or equivalent deferred for two financial years.
After the year-end, performance is assessed in the round based on the Committees judgement of performance achieved.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually in light of the strategic plan.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue on shares during the deferral period.
No DSA grants are made unless threshold performance levels are reached, with full vesting requiring outperformance of stretch objectives.
Maximum for 2013 14: Maximum for 2014 15: Justin King 125 per cent of salary Mike Coupe 110 per cent of salary Mike Coupe 90 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary Performance details Basket of metrics covering four categories: financial performance, returns to shareholders, relative performance against peers and strategic goals.
A profit gateway must be achieved before any awards can be made.
At least half of any award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Future Builder Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of Company performance and shareholder value over the longer term.
Share-based to provide greater alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation Awards of conditional share awards or equivalent with vesting dependent on performance measured over a period of at least three financial years.
To the extent that targets are met, 50 per cent vests following the end of the performance period and 50 per cent is deferred for a further year.
The Committee reviews the metrics, targets and weightings prior to each grant to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue on vested shares.
Opportunity Maximum award of up to 250 per cent of salary per annum under the rules of the plan in respect of any financial year.
Awards structured as core award up to 62.5 per cent per annum with a performance multiplier of up to 4 times.
For performance at threshold levels of performance, up to 25 per cent of maximum under each element may vest.
Based on the current structure this is equivalent to a multiplier of 1 times the core award.
Award levels for 2013 14: Award levels for 2014 15: Justin King core award of 55 per cent of salary Mike Coupe core award of 62.5 per cent of salary Mike Coupe core award of 50 per cent of salary John Rogers core award of 50 per cent of salary John Rogers core award of 50 per cent of salary Performance details Based on Return on Capital Employed ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from retail operations Cash Flow and relative sales performance.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards vest.
Weightings for 2014 15 awards: ROCE 50 per cent Cash Flow 30 per cent Relative sales 20 per cent Prior to granting awards, the Committee will review the performance conditions and may opt to vary the metrics and weightings to ensure targets and measures remain aligned with the corporate strategy.
The Committee would seek to consult as appropriate with its major shareholders regarding any material changes.
Shareholding Guidelines Purpose and link to strategy Alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Guideline expected to be met within five years of appointment.
Guidelines are: Chief Executive 2.5 times salary, other Executive Directors 1.5 times salary.
The 2014 15 incentive opportunities for Mike Coupe will take effect from his appointment as Chief Executive on 9 July 2014 and awards will be pro-rated to reflect time in role.
Further details are included on page 64.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 59 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Setting performance measures and targets Treatment of outstanding awards The Committee believes it is important that the performance conditions The Committee may approve payments to satisfy commitments agreed prior applying to incentive arrangements support the short and long-term to the approval and implementation of this Policy.
This includes previous corporate ambitions of the Company.
We operate in a dynamic market with incentive awards that are currently outstanding and unvested e. g. prior year evolving challenges and the Committee reviews the performance measures Deferred Share Award, Value Builder and Future Builder arrangements granted and targets each year to ensure that they remain relevant and stretching.
under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The structure of these legacy awards is Further details of the performance measures are set out in the Annual Report consistent with the Policy Table but the performance conditions applying on Remuneration.
Further details of outstanding awards are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The performance measures in the annual bonus and Deferred Share Award are selected as they are the key drivers of business performance.
The targets The Committee may also approve payments outside of this Policy, in order to for the annual bonus and DSA are set with reference to the corporate strategy satisfy any legacy arrangements made to a colleague prior to and not in and internal budgets as well as the external context e. g. market forecasts.
contemplation of promotion to the Board of Directors.
This approach seeks to ensure that the threshold and stretch targets are appropriately challenging.
Consideration of colleague pay and conditions When considering remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, the The Future Builder performance measures focus on longer term growth and Committee takes into account, as a matter of course, the pay and conditions returns to shareholders, and a similar target-setting approach is used.
Future of colleagues throughout the Company.
Builder awards are currently linked to the following measures: In particular, the Committee receives regular updates of any major changes to the pay and benefits of colleagues generally and the Committee takes Reflects the return generated for shareholders and into account wider pay issues when determining Executive Directors ROCE as such is a critical measure of the quality of our remuneration.
When setting Executive Director salary increases the business activity and the efficiency of capital use Committee considers the overall salary increase budget for management Cumulative underlying Measures the total flow of cash in and out of the and the increase in rate of pay for hourly-paid colleagues.
cash flow from retail business as well as providing an assessment of operations underlying profitability The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues on the setting This is an important metric used across the retail ofthe Policy but as a result of the Companys all-employee share plans, sector outperforming our direct peers on sales colleagues are able to become shareholders in the Company and can Relative sales will be a key source of value for our shareholders comment on the Policy in the same way as other shareholders.
and like-for-like sales are the biggest driver for profitability and returns Differences in remuneration policy for all colleagues Ensures that any payout reflects the underlying Performance gateway Many aspects of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors are performance of the Company consistent with the reward strategy for other colleagues across the Company.
Below executive level, pay and benefits are scaled to reflect the nature of the The Committee may vary or rebalance the weighting of the performance role and based on the levels of pay in comparable roles in the market.
metrics for future annual bonus, DSA and Future Builder awards, in order to ensure that they remain aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
All colleagues, including colleagues at Sainsburys Bank, are entitled to base TheCommittee may also adjust the calculation of performance measures salary, benefits including pension and annual bonus, subject to eligibility and and vesting outcomes for instance for material acquisitions or disposals and relevant performance criteria.
Annual bonus plans are operated across the events not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain Company and are aligned under a common set of principles with afair reflection of performance over the relevant period.
performance metrics tailored to different populations.
Preventing rewards for failure Senior executives expected to have the greatest influence on Company The Remuneration Committee may operate a recovery provision on Future performance over time are eligible for participation in long-term incentive Builder awards.
This feature strengthens the Companys formal governance in plans.
All colleagues have the opportunity to become shareholders in the line with our existing philosophy, and reduces the risk of payments for failure.
Company through our all-employee share plans and, as outlined in our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, our aim by 2020 is to increase the number of colleagues The circumstances in which the provision may be invoked have been defined with shares in our business by 25 per cent.
asfollows: Participation in a pension plan is offered to all colleagues on a contributory basis, with the Company contribution varying by grade.
Following autoFinancial accounts Material mis-statement of our financial results enrolment, we now have over 100,000 colleagues in one of our pension plans.
Serious reputational damage Actions conduct of Serious misconduct colleague Fraud Should the Committee consider such events to have occurred, it will have discretion to: Reduce the number of shares under an unvested award: Cancel an unvested award in full: or Impose further conditions on an unvested award.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 60 increases to at least three-quarters of the package at maximum levels Potential total remuneration opportunity under our ofperformance.
pay policy The Committee believes it is important that a significant portion of the The charts below show the total remuneration potential of the Executive package for Executive Directors is performance-related and delivered in Directors, in accordance with the remuneration policy, under three shares to align their interests with shareholders.
The balance between fixed performance scenarios.
The details for Mike Coupe relate to the annual policy pay base salary, pension and benefits and variable pay annual bonus, for him as Chief Executive, although for 2014 15 his actual rewards will reflect Deferred Share Award and Future Builder changes with performance.
the time in his current and new role.
In line with the regulations, the charts The variable proportion of total remuneration increases significantly for exclude the effect of share price movements.
At least 60 per cent of the package is delivered through variable pay at on-target performance and this proportion Mike Coupe John Rogers 3,500 7,000 3,048 3,000 6,000 5,418 5,000 2,500 39% 42% 1,908 4,000 2,000 3,303 18% 32% 3,000 1,500 34% 18% 14% 2,000 1,000 18% 15% 768 14% 18% 15% 1,188 1,000 500 100% 40% 25% 100% 36% 22% 0 0 Minimum Mid-point Maximum Minimum Mid-point Maximum Future Builder Annual bonus DSA Fixed pay Opportunity Minimum Mid-point Maximum Fixed pay Salary Mike Coupe 900,000: John Rogers 600,000 Benefits value in line with 2013 14 actual Pension CEO 30% of salary: CFO 25% of salary Annual bonus CEO 110% of salary Nil 50% of maximum 100% of maximum CFO 90% of salary Deferred Share Award CEO 110% of salary Nil 50% of maximum 100% of maximum CFO 90% of salary Future Builder CEO core award of 62.5% of salary Nil Multiplier of 2x Multiplier of 4x CFO core award 50% of salary Our approach to recruitment The Committee believes it is vital to be able to attract and recruit leaders of the calibre required to deliver our strategic objectives, while remaining mindful of the cost to the Company.
When determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments, the Committee intends to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The Committee will seek to align the remuneration package with the approved remuneration policy.
Fixed pay Salary and benefits including retirement benefits would be determined in accordance with the Policy Table above.
An alternative package may also be necessary where an individual fulfils an executive role on an interim basis.
In certain cases, the initial salary for a new appointment may be set at a lower level, with the intention of increasing the salary over time as the executive gains experience in the role.
Benefits may need to be tailored based on the individual circumstances e. g. relocation, housing or travel allowances may be required.
Variable pay The maximum variable remuneration which may be offered to an executive will be no more than 500 per cent of salary excluding any buy-out arrangements.
This limit is consistent with the overall maximum set out in the Policy Table.
Within these limits and where appropriate the Committee may tailor the award e. g. timeframe, form, performance criteria based on the commercial circumstances.
Shareholders will be informed of the terms for any such arrangements.
Buy-outs The Committee may need to buy-out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such circumstances, the Committee will seek to ensure any buy-out is of comparable commercial value and capped as appropriate.
The quantum, form and structure of any buy-out arrangement will be determined by the Committee taking into account the terms of the previous arrangement being forfeited e. g. form and structure of award, timeframe, performance criteria, likelihood of vesting, etc..
The buy-out may be structured as an award of cash or shares.
However, the Committee will normally have a preference for replacement awards to be made in the form of shares and to be within the Companys existing incentive plans.
Where an executive is appointed from either within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation e. g. acquisition of another company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the terms and fees will normally be consistent with the fee policy outlined later in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 61 000 000 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and policy for departing Executive Directors The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service contracts to be terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
Contracts contain non-compete and non-solicit clauses with key suppliers and colleagues.
The Companys normal practice is that Executive Directors may take up one non-executive role outside the Company, with approval from the Board, subject to the role being in a business that does not compete with the Company and with consideration of the time commitment.
Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
In the event of early termination without notice, any severance payment would be limited to one-years salary and benefits including pension, payable on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
Benefits payable may include certain one-off benefits in connection with termination such as legal costs and the costs of meeting any settlement agreement.
There are no specific terms relating to a change of control.
The service contract under which Mike Coupe will be appointed Chief Executive and John Rogers was appointed as Chief Financial Officer follow these provisions in full, as will contracts for new appointments.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office.
The Committee retains discretion to determine the exact termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time.
The table below sets out the general position and range of approaches in respect of incentive arrangements.
In accordance with the terms of the relevant incentive plan rules, based on the circumstances of any departure the Committee has discretion to determine how an Executive Director should be categorised for each element and determine vesting levels accordingly based on the range shown below.
Bad leaver Good leaver e. g. termination for cause, etc.
e. g. cessation due to ill-health, injury, etc.
Annual bonus No entitlement following Bonus may be payable subject to performance.
Awards normally pro-rated based date notice served.
on the period worked during the financial year, with payments usually occurring following the year-end.
Deferred Share Award No entitlement to current years Normally must be employed and not under notice to receive current years award following date notice served.
Unvested awards will lapse on Outstanding unvested awards normally do not lapse.
rated for the proportion of the deferral period elapsed on cessation, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may vest following cessation or at another date.
On death, unvested awards will be released and vest in full.
Long-Term Incentive Unvested awards will lapse on Unvested awards vest at the normal time subject to performance.
Awards Plan i. e. Future Builder notice.
will normally be pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the performance and legacy Value Builder awards period that has elapsed since cessation, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
On death, awards vest early on cessation with performance measured at this time.
Awards are pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed since cessation.
If the Director leaves in the first six months after the start of the performance period, the award lapses in full.
All-employee share plans In line with HMRC rules.
Legacy terms for Justin King and Mike Coupe Justin King will step down from the Board at the AGM on 9 July 2014.
Further details regarding his departure terms are set out on page 70.
Mike Coupes legacy service contract continues until 9 July 2014.
If Mike Coupes current contract is terminated without cause, the maximum payment he would receive would be equal to one times basic salary for the 12-month notice period plus 50 per cent of basic salary in lieu of all other elements of remuneration, except share plans treatment as outlined above.
The Company can make phased payments in which case Mike Coupe would be required to mitigate his loss and payments would cease on him finding alternative employment.
Mike Coupes contract does not contain any specific provisions relating to change of control.
Detailed share plan provisions Deferred Share Award, Value Builder and Future Builder awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the award has been granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Companys capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
On a change of control, Deferred Share Awards would be released or vest in full.
Under the LTIP rules approved by shareholders, Value Future Builder awards may vest taking account of relevant factors including progress against the relevant performance conditions.
Awards will be pro-rated as set out below or, alternatively, Value Future Builder awards may be rolled-over into awards in the new entity.
Timing of event Pro-rating 12 months or less from the annual date of grant Reduced to 33.3% More than 12 months but 24 months or less from the annual date of grant Reduced to 66.6% Over 24 months from the annual date of grant No reduction J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 62 In the event of a demerger or other significant distribution, Deferred Share Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Awards or Value Future Builder awards may be allowed to vest wholly or in part if Approach The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level it is considered that a demerger or significant distribution event would affect the to setting which is considered appropriate to attract individuals value of the award.
remuneration with the necessary experience and ability to oversee the business.
Fees may be paid in cash or shares.
Winding up, administration or a voluntary arrangement event would result in Deferred Share Awards being released or vesting in full and Value Future Builder Typically reviewed annually in September.
awards would vest subject to achievement of the relevant performance Judgement is used but consideration is given to a number conditions on the same time pro-rated basis as above.
of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
In similar corporate events, awards under HMRC approved all-employee plans Where appropriate benefits may be provided such as would vest in accordance with the standard approved terms.
private medical cover, annual medical assessment and colleague discount.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the remuneration policy to aid Travel and other reasonable expenses including any its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approvals e. g. for associated taxes incurred in the course of performing regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account their duties are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
of a change in legislation provided that any such change is not to the material advantage of colleagues.
Opportunity Fee opportunity reflects responsibility and time commitment.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities such Non-Executive Directors as chairmanship of committees.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in Committee and the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors by the the market context and take account of the individual Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors circumstances and benefits provided in comparable roles.
receive fees and are eligible for certain benefits.
They are not entitled to any Fees as at 16 March 2014: performance-related pay or pension.
Chairman 490,000 per annum The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Base fee 62,500 per annum The Companys policy is to appoint the Chairman and Non-Executive Senior Independent Director, Chairman of Directors for an initial three-year period, which may be extended for further Remuneration and Audit Committees additional terms by mutual consent.
The initial appointments and any subsequent fees of 17,500 per annum reappointments are subject to annual election or re-election by shareholders.
Chairman of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee additional fees of 12,500 Non-Executive Directors appointments may be terminated at any time by per annum serving three months written notice by either party: six months in the case ofthe Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee values the views of the Companys shareholders and guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year, as well as any additional feedback received during the year, is considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration review.
As part of the Committees commitment to positive and transparent shareholder relations, during the year the Committee consulted with its major shareholders in relation to the Future Builder targets for the 2014 awards.
Further details of the 2014 awards are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited information The table below shows a single remuneration figure for all qualifying services for the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014, together with comparative figures for the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013.
2 Benefits include a combination of cash and non-cash benefits, valued at the taxable value.
Justin King received non-cash benefits which include company car benefits and private medical cover.
Benefits for John Rogers and Mike Coupe include cash car allowance and private medical cover.
The largest contributor to the benefits value is the company car provision: 27,856 for Justin King and 15,250 for Mike Coupe and John Rogers.
Also included is a value for Sharesave options based on a 20 per cent discount on the savings in the year.
3 Paid in relation to the year: relates to cash supplements and for John Rogers also includes the Company contribution to a defined contribution plan.
The figures in the case of John Rogers do not include deductions made from base salary for Saving Money and Reducing Tax SMART pensions.
4 Annual bonus relates to performance during the financial year, paid in May following the relevant year-end.
5 The Deferred Share Award relates to performance during the financial year, shares are granted in May following the relevant year-end and vest after a two-year deferral period.
6 The Long-Term Incentive Plan value relates to the Value Builder award vesting in May following the end of the relevant financial year, which is the third year of the performance period.
50 per cent of the shares are released in May after the end of the relevant performance period and the balance one year later.
The figures include accrued dividends over the performance period.
The 2012 13 awards are based on the share price on initial vesting of 3.7450.
The 2013 14 awards are based on the average share price over the fourth quarter for 2013 14 of 3.4948.
7 The Executive Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned from non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Justin King was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Staples, Inc. on 17 September 2007.
During the year 13,715 2012 13: 11,372 of restricted Staples stock was released to Justin King and a further award over 15,412 shares was granted 2012 13: 13,715 restricted shares awarded.
Justin King was also a Director of The London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Limited and a member of the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games until 30 May 2013.
Justin King received 2,000 2012 13: 8,000 during the year for his services which, after deductions for National Insurance, was donated directly to charity.
Mike Coupe was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc on 26 July 2011 and received 43,762 2012 13: 43,000 for his services.
The following section provides details for each element of the package during Base salary 2013 14 as well as details of the Committees intended approach in respect Salary effective Salary effective of 2014 15. from from 17 March 2013 16 March 2014 Appointment of Mike Coupe as Chief Executive Justin King 960,000 960,000 Mike Coupe will be appointed as Chief Executive following the AGM on Mike Coupe 587,000 587,000 9 July 2014.
As detailed at the time of the announcement, his package John Rogers 520,000 600,000 will consist of: On 9 July 2014, salary will be set at 900,000.
Salary of 900,000 per annum: Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 110 per cent of salary: In line with the policy, the Committee takes account of a number of factors when considering salaries, with particular focus on the general level of salary Maximum Deferred Share Award of 110 per cent of salary: increases awarded throughout the Company.
The salary review for management and non-management central colleagues in March 2014 Future Builder core award of 62.5 per cent of salary maximum potential was 2.0 per cent and for hourly-paid retail colleagues in September 2013 250 per cent of salary : was 2.6 per cent.
External pay data is provided to the Committee for Payment in lieu of pension of 30 per cent of salary: and reference, relating to the UK retail market and similar-sized companies in terms of sales revenue and market capitalisation, but the Committee applies Benefits in line with the Companys policy.
judgement when considering market data.
The Committee considered Mikes package in light of the role, the individual No adjustment was made to Justin Kings salary at the start of the 2014 15 and market positioning.
The salary set reflects Mikes significant retail financial year.
Mike Coupes salary will also remain the same until 9 July experience, knowledge of Sainsburys and his proven track record, including when he is appointed Chief Executive.
At the start of the financial year, the seven years as an Executive Director.
The Committee also determined that, Committee reviewed John Rogers salary in light of his performance and while the overall level of variable incentive opportunity for the Chief Executive expanded role, and increased his salary to 600,000.
Following the full role should remain unchanged, it should be rebalanced towards the purchase of Sainsburys Bank, John is now responsible for a larger long-term award Future Builder.
For 2014 15, Mikes incentive awards will consolidated Group and he has a particularly important role with the Bank, bepro-rated reflecting the time in each role.
being the only Group Director to sit on the Bank Board.
John is a high performing and well-respected CFO in the marketplace and this adjustment As detailed in the Directors Remuneration Policy, Mike Coupes contractual recognises his growth in the role and most importantly his increased terms have also been aligned with current best practice.
A similar approach was taken to setting pay for 2013 14, details of which were set out in last years report.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 64 Pension Annual bonus In lieu of pension plan participation, Justin King receives a pension 2014 15 policy supplement of 30 per cent of salary and Mike Coupe receives a pension All bonus plans across the Company are aligned under a set of common supplement of 25 per cent of salary increasing to 30 per cent on principles.
The Board and management plans are based on profit, sales appointment as Chief Executive.
growth, customer-focused measures and an element for individual performance.
Bonus awards are weighted to the achievement of profit, at In 2013 14, John Rogers participated in the JS Self Invested Pension Plan least 50 per cent under the current structure, and profit also acts as the SIPP, a defined contribution arrangement which is open to all senior overall gateway measure for the plan, reflecting the emphasis on profit.
In return for contributing 5 per cent of his salary, the Company The annual bonus is paid in cash after the year-end.
contributed 12.5 per cent of his salary up to an internal earnings cap 141,000 for 2013 14.
He received a cash pension supplement of 25 per The profit and sales targets are set against the Companys expected cent of the pensionable salary he was paid in excess of the earnings cap.
For performance and are subject to a rigorous process of challenge before the 2014 15, he will no longer participate in the SIPP and will receive 25 per cent proposals are considered by the Board.
For 2014 15, the targets have been set of salary as a cash pension supplement.
such that stretching performance in excess of internal and external forecasts is required for maximum payout.
The customer-focused measures are based on product availability and a customer service measure.
Benefits For 2013 14 and 2014 15, benefits for Executive Directors include the Individual performance objectives are set annually for each Executive Director provision of company car benefits, private medical cover, long-term disability and are reviewed by the Committee.
These objectives cover a variety of insurance, life assurance and colleague discount.
financial and operational targets that contribute to the achievement of longer-term strategic goals: some of these objectives relate, either directly or Performance-related pay indirectly, to the Companys values.
The Committee believes it is important that for Executive Directors asignificant portion of the package is performance-related and the The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the new Chief Executive will performance conditions applying to incentive arrangements support the be110 per cent of base salary which will take effect from the date of his delivery of the Companys strategy and the long-term sustainable success appointment to the role.
The maximum opportunity for the Chief Financial of the Company.
The Committee considers performance against a range of Officer remains unchanged at 90 per cent of base salary.
Justin King will not metrics to ensure that the assessment is rounded, taking into account both participate in this plan in 2014 15. qualitative and quantitative factors.
2013 14 annual bonus payment audited information The table below outlines each of the performance measures used in our The performance measures for 2013 14 were the same as outlined above performance-related pay arrangements and how they support our business for 2014 15.
The Committee assessed performance against the targets strategy as outlined in the Strategic Review, being the five areas of focus, following the end of the financial year.
The Committee considers that operational excellence, our values and our customers.
the detail of targets applying to the annual bonus for 2013 14 continue to be commercially sensitive.
However, an explanation of the outcome, including the positioning against the performance scale for each element Five areas Operational of focus excellence Our values Our customers is shown below: Annual bonus Profit CustomerIndividual Sales Profit Sales focused performance Customer Above target Individual performance Target DSA Threshold Financial performance Below threshold Returns to shareholders Relative performance During the year, the Company achieved good year-on-year profit growth Strategic goals resulting in an underlying profit before tax of 798 million.
However, this Future Builder performance was not sufficient to trigger vesting at the upper-end of the scale ROCE due to the highly demanding targets which were set at the start of the year.
Cash Flow The profit element represents around 50 per cent of the total award and Relative sales therefore this has a noticeable impact on the overall level of vesting.
In addition, despite growing retail sales including VAT, excluding fuel by The Board is of the opinion that the performance targets for the annual bonus 2.7 per cent and maintaining market share, we were unable to meet our and Deferred Share Award are commercially sensitive as we operate in a threshold sales target.
The customer element is made up of a product highly competitive, consumer-facing sector.
The disclosure of targets would availability measure which is measured across all stores on a regular basis provide competitors, even after the end of the performance period, with by an independent third party, conducting random and unannounced store insights into the Companys strategic aims, budgeting and growth visits and a customer service measure based on how well the store support projections.
Therefore, a full breakdown of the targets for the 2013 14 and centres support customers and stores, both of which were achieved in full, 2014 15 awards has not been provided.
However, in the following sections, reflecting our strong performance in this area.
the Committee has looked to provide expanded disclosure where possible so that shareholders can understand the basis for payments.
The Committee also carefully reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors against the objectives that were set at the start of the year.
These objectives include the Executive Directors contribution to the Companys strategy as members of the Board and specific goals related to their core areas of responsibility.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Based on the above performance outcomes, the table below sets out the The Company performed well in challenging market circumstances in Executive Directors bonus payments for 2013 14, which are payable in cash 2013 14 and this flowed through to the measures that determine awards inMay 2014.
These are the figures included in the annual bonus row in the under the DSA.
The Committee agreed that for 2013 14 awards would be single total figure table.
made at 80 per cent of the maximum level see table below.
These are the figures set out in the DSA row of the single total figure table.
The share award is made in May 2014 and the shares vest in March 2016 subject to continued Annual bonus for 2013 14 employment.
Maximum Value Per cent of Per cent of per cent 000 salary maximum of salary Deferred Share Award for 2013 14 Justin King 781 81% 65% 125% Maximum Mike Coupe 318 54% 60% 90% Value Per cent of Per cent of per cent 000 salary maximum of salary John Rogers 282 54% 60% 90% Justin King 960 100% 80% 125% Mike Coupe 423 72% 80% 90% The 2013 14 annual bonus for store colleagues was based on corporate sales, product availability and customer service targets measured in their individual John Rogers 374 72% 80% 90% stores.
This has resulted in a bonus pool of over 80 million which will be shared by colleagues.
Although some of the specific measures and targets are commercially sensitive, the table opposite presents a selection of performance highlights which the Committee took into account within eachof the four categories.
Deferred Share Award 2014 15 policy Long-term incentives The Deferred Share Award DSA is used to drive performance against a diverse range of business-critical financial and strategic scorecard measures 2014 15 policy and rewards Executive Directors for achieving the short-term objectives that The long-term incentive vehicle in use at Sainsburys is known as Future will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Builder.
This arrangement was introduced in 2012 following the amendment Company.
These awards are made in shares to ensure further alignment of to the performance conditions.
Awards are made under the shareholder Executive Directors interests with shareholders.
approved 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the overall maximum award permitted by the rules of the plan is 250 per cent of salary including the The DSA covers broadly the top 45 managers in the Company, including performance multiplier.
Performance is assessed in the round based on the Committees judgement of performance achieved against a number of Around 230 senior managers participate in this arrangement.
A core award of measures within four broad categories.
The categories and examples of the shares is granted, calculated as a percentage of salary and scaled according measures that will be reviewed for 2014 15 are set out below.
Vesting of the core award is dependent upon performance against specific measures common for all participants tested at the end of a three-year performance period.
The core award can grow by Financial performance Profit, earnings per share up to four times at stretch levels of performance.
Half of any vested shares are Returns to shareholders Total shareholder return, dividend yield released at the end of the performance period, while the remaining half are Relative performance against peers Market share released after a further year.
Dividends accrue between grant and vesting on Strategic goals Five areas of focus, corporate the shares that vest, in the form of additional shares.
responsibility As outlined in the Policy Table, Future Builder measures performance against As outlined in the Policy Table, at least 50 per cent of the award will be ROCE, Cash Flow and relative sales.
based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
In addition, no shares will be awarded unless the profit gateway target The targets and weightings for the 2014 awards are set out below: as applied to the annual bonus is achieved.
Threshold Maximum Performance is assessed over one financial year, but any shares awarded are target target deferred for a further two financial years.
The shares are subject to forfeiture 1.0x core 4.0x core ifthe participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Measure Weighting award award Dividends accrue during the deferral period on the shares that vest in the form Return on capital employed ROCE 50% 10.75% 12.00% of additional shares.
Cumulative underlying cash flow 30% 5,750m 6,750m from retail operations Cash Flow The maximum DSA award opportunity for the new Chief Executive will be Relative sales v IGD Index 20% Match Index 110 per cent of base salary, which will take effect from the date of his Index 1.0% p. a. appointment to the role.
The maximum opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer remains unchanged at 90 per cent of base salary.
Justin King will not In addition, a performance gateway must be achieved before any element participate in this plan in 2014 15. under the ROCE, Cash Flow or relative sales elements can vest.
The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the Companys underlying 2013 14 Deferred Share Award audited information performance over the period justifies the level of vesting.
Vesting will be Following the year-end, the Committee conducted a rigorous assessment reduced if the vesting outcome is not considered to be justified.
Consistent with the underlying principles of the DSA, the when making this judgement the Committee has scope to consider such Committee assessed achievements in the round and also considered the factors as it deems relevant.
The Committee believes that having a gateway manner in which these performance goals had been delivered, in particular isan important feature of the plan and mitigates the risk of unwarranted how the overall performance of the Company had contributed to its future, vesting outcomes.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 66 2013 14 Deferred Share Award performance Financial performance Returns to shareholders Relative performance against peers Overall we have performed well... We have maintained a good level of We have outperformed the market returns to shareholders... as measured by IGD...
Outperformed the IGD Index by Underlying ROCE 11.3% 0.8 per cent source: IGD Market 5.3% PBT 798 million 19bps 0.8% Track 51 weeks to 8 March 2014 Proposed full year Maintained market share at16.8% Retail underlying dividend 17.3 pence, as measured by Kantar.
8bps 3.6% operating margin 3.65% with dividend cover Retail Industry Awards 2013 1.90x underlying earnings Supermarket of the Year sixth time in eight years and Convenience Retailer TSR was above assessed over a one, of the Year fourth year running.
three and five year period.
Underlying basic 6.5% EPS 32.8 pence Dividend yield and price earnings ratio remain strong.
Strategic goals Great food Compelling general merchandise and clothing Complementary channels and services Our own-brand goods are growing at over twice Non-food sales are increasing at over twice the rate We opened 91 convenience stores last year the rate of branded goods and account for over of food.
and delivered sales growth of around 19 per 50 per cent of food sales.
cent year-on-year with annual turnover of The re-launch of our Tu clothing brand in autumn over 1.8 billion.
Our re-launched by Sainsburys range now 2013 represented the single biggest investment in hasover 7,000 lines and is driving own-brand our clothing business since 2004.
The range is now We were named Online Retailer of the Year penetration, with 97 per cent of customers merchandised in more than 400 stores.
for the second consecutive year at the buying by Sainsburys products.
Grocer Gold Awards and reached 1 billion Annual turnover in general merchandise is over in online annual sales.
We remain the most trusted food retailer of the 1billion and continues to grow.
We acquired the remaining 50 per cent shareholding of Sainsburys Bank from Lloyds Banking Group.
Developing new business Growing space and creating property value Corporate responsibility Mobile by Sainsburys is still in its first year of The market value of our property portfolio is now First major supermarket to introduce the business and we continue to test the dynamic 12.0 billion.
Department of Healths nutritional labelling.
market in which it operates.
This year we opened 13 new supermarkets, All operational waste put to positive use, 2 I C marked its first full year of operation.
91convenience stores and extended six avoiding landfill.
2 I C manages multi-media campaigns to supermarkets, a total of one million sq ft of We have raised over 40 million for good Sainsburys customers through a unique range additional space.
causes this year and since 2005 have of cross-channel tools.
To reduce our operational carbon emissions by donated 136 million worth of Active Kids In its first year of trading, eBooks by 30per cent, we have started to build highly equipment and experiences.
Sainsburys was the first to offer free ebooks sustainable, low carbon stores.
for those buying the physical version.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance targets to ensure made in 2011 and vests in May 2014, based on performance over 2011 12 to they remained aligned with the business plan.
The performance conditions applying to the award vesting in May after consulting with shareholders, has increased the threshold and 2014 are set out in the Performance conditions attached to outstanding maximum Cash Flow targets by 250 million from 5,500 million long-term incentives awards table.
The ROCE and relative sales targets remain unchanged.
When assessing ROCE and cash flow per share CFPS performance for the purposes of the plan, adjustments were made to take into account additional As Chief Executive, in 2014 Mike Coupe will receive a total core award of 62.5 investment, returns and one-off events not envisaged at the time the targets per cent of salary maximum 250 per cent of salary.
This will comprise a core were set.
The Committee determined an adjusted ROCE of 13.0 per cent and award of 50 per cent of salary in May 2014 in relation to his role as Group CFPS of 8.2 per cent, resulting in a vesting multiplier of 1.6 times, which the Commercial Director and, as previously announced, after he is appointed Committee believes is a true and fair reflection of performance.
This Chief Executive, he will receive an additional award, bringing the overall award represents 40 per cent of the maximum award opportunity.
to 62.5 per cent of his average salary for 2014 15.
John Rogers will receive a core award of 50 per cent of salary in May 2014.
One half of the award becomes exercisable in May 2014, with the remaining portion exercisable in May 2015.
Future Builder performance measures Performance conditions attached to outstanding ROCE long-term incentive awards ROCE is based on the underlying operating profit for the whole business, with Sainsburys Bank fully consolidated, including the underlying share of post-tax 2012 Future Builder first cycle and 2013 Future Builder profit from joint ventures.
The capital employed figure excludes the impact of second cycle movements in the IAS 19 pension deficit.
Threshold Maximum target target Cumulative underlying cash flow from retail operations 1.0x core 4.0x core Measure Weighting award award The cumulative underlying cash flow is based on the reported cash flow generated from core retail operations over the performance period after Return on Capital Employed 50% 10.75% 12.00% adding back net rent and cash pension costs.
Only core retail operations are Cumulative underlying cash flow from 30% 5,500m 6,500m included in recognition of the differences in cash generation between the operations retail business and Sainsburys Bank.
Relative sales v Match Index 20% IGD Index Index 1.0% p. a.
Relative sales In addition, a performance gateway must be achieved EPS must grow by at least 4 per cent per annum for Relative sales performance is measured using the IGD Index IGD Market any award to vest.
The Index measures growth in like-for-like sales excluding fuel across 2011 Value Builder sixth cycle the market based on the performance of all of the Companys key competitors.
This is an independently audited index of sales efficiency, which is viewed as Cash flow per share a robust reference point for performance across the food retail sector.
13.5% 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 The structure of the plan is the same as Future Builder but different 13% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 performance conditions applied.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan figures in the 12.5% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 single total figure table relates to the sixth cycle of Value Builder which was Share awards made during the financial year audited information The following share awards were made to Executive Directors during the year.
The Future Builder award levels are determined by the normal grant policy for the role and, in the case of the DSA, performance over the previous year.
Basis of award Percentage vesting at Performance Scheme maximum Face value threshold performance Number of shares period end date 1 Justin King Future Builder 220% of salary 2,112,000 25% of each element 550,456 12 03 2016 2 DSA 104% of salary 975,000 N A 254,183 N A 1 Mike Coupe Future Builder 200% of salary 1,174,000 25% of each element 305,984 12 03 2016 2 DSA 75% of salary 430,000 N A 111,948 N A 1 John Rogers Future Builder 200% of salary 1,040,000 25% of each element 271,056 12 03 2016 2 DSA 75% of salary 381,000 N A 99,293 N A 1 The performance conditions applying to 2013 Future Builder are set out in the Performance conditions attached to outstanding long-term incentive awards table.
The basis of award shows the maximum value being four times the core award.
The award was made on 16 May 2013 and the number of shares has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant 9 to 15 May 2013 of 3.8368.
50 per cent of the award vests on 12May 2016 and 50 per cent 12 months later.
The award is structured as a nil-cost option with a two-year exercise period.
2 The DSA was made on 16 May 2013 based on performance over the 2012 13 financial year.
The award was made at 83 per cent of the maximum level maximum of 125 per cent of salary for Justin King and 90 per cent of salary for Mike Coupe and John Rogers.
The number of shares has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant 9 to 15 May 2013 of 3.8368.
No further performance conditions apply.
Awards become exercisable on 20 March 2015.
The award is structured as a nil-cost option with an eight-year exercise period.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 68 All-employee share plans Shareholding guidelines In line with our 20x20 target of increasing the number of colleagues with 2,000 shares in the Company by 25 per cent, the Company provides two all- 5.4 x salary 1,750 employee share plans for colleagues, namely the Savings-Related Share Option Plan SAYE and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan, of which the 1,500 Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan SSPP is a part.
Executive Directors may 1,250 participate in these plans in the same way as all other colleagues.
Justin King 5.2 x salary and John Rogers currently participate in both plans.
Mike Coupe participates 1,000 in the SAYE.
As these are all-employee plans there are no performance 750 conditions.
The Committee approves the adoption or amendment of these 3.1 x salary plans and awards to Executive Directors.
500 250 The 2008 five-year SAYE reached maturity on 1 March 2014.
Around 3,200 colleagues could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy Sainsburys 0 shares at a 2.24 option price.
The 2010 three-year SAYE matured at the Justin King Mike Coupe John Rogers same time covering around 7,200 colleagues who could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy Sainsburys shares at a 2.97 option price.
Using Shareholding Share awards Guideline the market price on the date of the first exercise, the value of all the shares Notes subject to the maturity was nearly 28 million.
The Company currently has Shareholding calculated using i salaries as at 15 March 2014, ii share total based on total of shareholding over 33,000 colleagues participating in the SAYE with around 64,000 plus net of tax value tax assumed to be 47 per cent of share awards not subject to performance as at individual savings contracts.
15March 2014 and iii the closing mid-market share price on 14 March 2014 of 3.1360.
All Executive Directors have shareholdings that meet and significantly exceed Shareholding guidelines audited information the current shareholding guideline.
On appointment as Chief Executive, Mike As detailed in the Policy Table, the Executive Directors are required to build up Coupes shareholding guideline will increase to 2.5 times salary.
However, his a specified level of shareholding in the Company.
This is to create greater current holding exceeds the new guideline.
alignment of the Directors interests with those of shareholders, in line with the objectives of the remuneration policy.
The guidelines require the Chief Executive to have a holding of 2.5 times salary and Executive Directors 1.5 times salary.
Directors are required to build this shareholding within five years of appointment to the relevant role.
In addition to shares held, share awards under the DSA and Value Future Builder awards where the performance period has ended count towards the guideline on a net of taxbasis.
Executive Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The table below sets out details of all the Executive Directors shareholdings and their share awards.
Further details of the movements of the Executive Directors shareholdings during the year are set out on page 73.
The table below sets out the Executive Directors current shareholdings including beneficial interests and a summary of outstanding share awards at the endof the 2013 14 financial year.
1 3 Ordinary shares Scheme interests Value Future Value Builder awards Builder awards with Deferred Share with performance performance period 2 4 5 6 16 March 2013 15 March 2014 6 May 2014 Awards period completed outstanding SAYE Justin King 825,979 1,282,115 1,282,190 543,556 133,763 1,788,340 2,710 Mike Coupe 866,411 801,949 801,949 239,901 68,908 995,620 4,518 John Rogers 210,806 376,644 376,717 212,526 41,885 851,080 6,302 1 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan.
2 The total includes shares purchased under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan between 15 March 2014 and 6 May 2014.
3 Deferred Share Awards and Value Future Builder awards are structured as nil-cost options.
4 Relates to Deferred Share Awards, including those awards granted in 2012 13 as set out in the Share awards made during the financial year section.
5 Relates to Value Builder awards that have met the performance test but have not yet vested.
6 Relates to Value and Future Builder awards maximum where the performance period has not ended, including those awards granted in 2012 13 as set out in the Share awards made during the financial year section and those vesting in May 2014.
Note: The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Companys employee benefit trust, which is used to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans, and they are therefore treated as interested in the 2.1 million shares 2013: 5.3 million held by the Trustees.
The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Dilution Committee reviews these at least once a year.
Up to 15 March 2014, an The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys estimated 8.0 per cent of the Companys issued share capital has been allocated share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best for the purposes of its all-employee share plans over a ten-year period, practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not including an estimated 4.0 per cent over ten years in respect of its executive exceed 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital for all-employee share share plans.
This is on the basis that all outstanding awards vest in full.
plans and 5 per cent in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 69 Number of shares 000 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Departure terms of Justin King Performance graph and remuneration table Justin King will step down at the AGM on 9 July 2014.
Justin Kings contract The graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in JSainsbury provides for a cash severance payment potentially worth up to 175 per cent plc shares over the last five years compared with an equivalent investment of his base salary at departure.
However, he has offered to waive this cash inthe FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index has been selected to provide an entitlement.
As detailed on announcement of his departure, the established and broad-based index.
The following table details the Chief Remuneration Committee have determined the following treatment: Executives total remuneration over this period.
There will be no payment in lieu of notice: TSR performance since March 2009 He will remain eligible for an annual bonus and Deferred Share Award 250 250 for2013 14: He will receive no annual bonus, Deferred Share Award or Future Builder 200 200 for 2014 15: 150 150 There will be no acceleration of vesting for any share awards: The 2012 13 and 2013 14 Deferred Share Awards will subsist in full and 100 100 will be released at the end of the deferral period: and The 2011 Value Builder and 2012 and 2013 Future Builder awards will subsist 50 50 in full and will vest at the normal date, subject to the normal performance conditions i. e. at a vesting level consistent with other colleagues.
0 0 The above arrangements ensure that any remaining payments to Justin King Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 are aligned with the performance of the Company following his departure Sainsburys FTSE 100 and are a sign of his confidence in the new management and the businesss continuing prospects.
Chief Executives total remuneration in last five financial years 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Single figure remuneration 000 4,441 4,380 3,471 4,366 3,945 Bonus DSA award as a percentage of maximum 92% 65% 61% 84% 73% LTIP vesting percentage of maximum 80% 48% 43% 44% 40% Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executives The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total colleague salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 13 and 2013 14 compares with the pay being the aggregate staff costs as set out in Note 7 to the financial percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for all statements and distributions to shareholders being declared dividends.
number of colleagues has increased from 157,000 to 161,000 during the year.
Salary Benefits Bonus Colleague pay Distribution to shareholders % change % change % change 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 1 Chief Executive 2.1% 3.1 % 21.6 % m m % change m m % change 2 All colleagues 2.1% 2.2% 17.4 % 2,320 2,435 5.0% 308 320 3.9% 1 For the Chief Executive, the bonus figure only relates to the cash annual bonus.
2 Figures relate to average based on number of full-time equivalent colleagues.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 70 Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited information The table below shows a single remuneration figure for all qualifying services for the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 for each Non-Executive Director, together with comparative figures for the 52 weeks to 16 March 2013.
2 David Tyler received a non-cash benefit of private medical cover.
The Chairman receives an annual cash fee and benefits of private medical Dates of Directors service contracts and letters cover and a colleague discount card.
of appointment Justin King 29 March 2004 Non-Executive Directors receive a base annual cash fee: additional fees Mike Coupe 1 A ugust 2007 post appointment as Chief Executive are paid to the Senior Independent Director and to the Chairmen of the 9 July 2014 Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability John Rogers 19 July 2010 Committees.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits other than a David Tyler 1 October 2009 Chairman from 1 November 2009 colleague discount card.
Matt Brittin 27 January 2011 Mary Harris 1 August 2007 Details of the Board and Committee schedule of meetings and the number Gary Hughes 1 January 2005 of meetings attended by the Directors are set out on page 43.
John McAdam 1 September 2005 Susan Rice 1 June 2013 During the year, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees were Jean Tomlin 1 January 2013 reviewed.
From 29 September 2013, the fee levels were amended the first increase in two years to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment Governance The Remuneration Committee of the roles, as set out in the table below.
Committee membership The Remuneration Committee comprises Mary Harris, John McAdam Fees effective Fees effective and Jean Tomlin.
All members of the Committee are independent from from 30 September 29 September Non-Executive Directors.
2012 2013 Chairman fee 470,000 490,000 Role and responsibilities of the Committee Base fee 60,000 62,500 The Committee complies with relevant regulations and considers the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice when determining pay and Senior Independent Director fee additional 15,000 17,500 policy.
The specific responsibilities of the Committee include: Chairman of Remuneration Committee fee 15,000 17,500 additional Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the Chairman of Audit Committee fee additional 15,000 17,500 Chairman, Executive Directors and the Operating Board Directors: Chairman of Corporate Responsibility and 12,500 12,500 Setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Sustainability Committee fee additional Executive Directors: The beneficial interest of the Non-Executive Directors and their families in the Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for shares of the Company are shown below.
those members of senior management within the scope of the Committee, namely the Operating Board Directors and any other executive whose 1 salary exceeds that of any Operating Board Director: Ordinary shares 16 March 2013 15 March 2014 6 May 2014 Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across the Company: David Tyler 50,000 50,000 50,000 Approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including Matt Brittin 1,000 1,000 1,000 termination arrangements: and Mary Harris 11,607 12,123 12,123 Considering the achievement of the performance conditions under annual Gary Hughes 31,625 33,032 33,032 and long-term incentive bonus arrangements.
John McAdam 1,000 1,000 1,000 2 Susan Rice 1,000 1,000 1,000 The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website Jean Tomlin 1,315 1,315 www.
1 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
2 16 March 2013 figure relates to date of appointment.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 71 Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Tim Fallowfield, Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee David Tyler, Justin King, Angie Risley Group HR Director, Lorna Godman The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers Head of Reward and Ed Barker Director of Group Finance, are invited to if it considers this beneficial.
Over the course of the year, the Committee attend Committee meetings.
Mike Coupe and John Rogers have also attended was supported by its appointed advisers, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, whose selected meetings.
The Committee considers their views when reviewing the consultants attended all of the Committee meetings.
Deloitte provided remuneration of the Executive Directors and Operating Board Directors.
advice to the Committee on a range of topics including remuneration trends, Individuals who attend Remuneration Committee meetings do not corporate governance, incentive plan design and consulting with participate in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
In relation to this advice, Deloitte received fees of c. 165,000 fees are based on hours spent.
Deloitte provided the Company with Principal activities and matters addressed during 2013 14 unrelated advice and consultancy regarding information technology, The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in taxation and non-audit accounting matters.
addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.
The Committee typically meets four times each year, or more as required.
The Towers Watson provided comparative data, which was considered by the table below shows the standard items considered at each meeting, leading Committee in setting remuneration levels, for which they received fees of up to the meeting in April where the key decisions regarding performance, c. 35,000.
Towers Watson also provided other services to the Company outcomes and grants for the coming year are determined.
The key issues the relating to pensions.
Committee discussed during the year were the exit arrangements for Justin King, the remuneration arrangements for Mike Coupe, the Future Builder Both Deloitte and Towers Watson are members of the Remuneration arrangement, the targets applying to 2014 awards and the new reporting Consulting Group and, as such, operate under the Code of Conduct in relation regulations.
The Committee also undertook a competitive tender exercise to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, the ofits adviser.
Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte and Towers Watson and has confirmed that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has also determined that the Deloitte partner who provides Standard agenda items remuneration advice to the Committee does not have any connections with September Performance update on outstanding incentive awards the Company that may impact their independence.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were Review of dilution under Company share plans appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Corporate governance and market update Review of the Chairmans fee Following the appointment of a new Remuneration Committee Chairman January Competitive review of Executive Directors salary and total in2012 and in line with good governance, during the year the Committee remuneration packages undertook a competitive tender of its advisers.
During the extensive tender process, the Committee met with a number of firms which concludedwith Performance update on outstanding incentive awards thereappointment of Deloitte.
Initial discussions on long-term incentive plan for the next financial year Statement of voting at general meeting Corporate governance update The table below sets out the votes on the Directors Remuneration Report Review of advisers and their independence at the last two AGMs.
The Committee is keen to hear the views of all March Review of long-term incentive plan for the next financial year shareholders and continually reviews the remuneration policy and Executive Directors salary review decisions implementation.
Performance update on outstanding incentive awards April Review of performance and outcomes under the annual Votes for Votes against Votes abstained bonus and Deferred Share Award 2012 13 96.91% 3.09% 8.3 million Remuneration Report 1,293 million 41 million Review of performance and vesting under long-term incentives 2011 12 96.52% 3.48% 14.2 million Determining incentive structure for the next financial year Remuneration Report 1,184 million 43 million including finalisation of targets Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding vote at the AGM on 9 July 2014, together with an advisory vote on the remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Approved by the Board on 6 May 2014.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 72 Details of the Executive Directors share awards and movements during the year audited information The table below shows the conditional awards granted and exercised under each of the Companys share plans.
2 See page 66 for details of the Deferred Share Award, including performance conditions.
3 The performance of the awards granted in June 2008 was tested and matching shares of 0.91 times an individuals deferral was achieved.
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2011 whilst the remainder of the achieved award was released in May 2012.
The number of dividend shares on the second vesting was determined by a five-day average share price from 10 to 16 May 2012.
The Plan is no longer operated.
4 The SAYE Plan is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance conditions as per HMRC Regulations.
5 Maximum award which could be achieved.
6 The second half of the award which vested in May 2012 was released in May 2013.
The number of dividend shares which have been received on vested shares was determined by a five-day average share price from 9 to 15 May 2013.
7 The performance of the award made in May 2010 was tested in May 2013 and a multiplier of 1.75 was achieved.
The number of shares between the maximum multiplier 4.0 and the multiplier achieved have lapsed.
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2013 whilst the remainder of the achieved award will vest in May 2014.
The number of dividend shares determined by a five-day average share price from 9 to 15 May 2013.
8 The number of dividend shares for the 2011 award was determined by a five-day average share price following the announcement of interim and preliminary results: 12 to 18 May 2011, 10 to 16 November 2011, 10 to 16 May 2012 and 15 to 21 November 2012.
9 This is the notional gain on the date of exercise had all shares been sold.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 73
