46 47 Directors Remuneration Report Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and Annual Statement we seek to ensure that our remuneration policy is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the right Dear Shareholder calibre to ensure the success of the Company into the future.
The Committee has determined that it would be appropriate for The Remuneration Committee Committee has focused on a new LTIP scheme to be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 ensuring that our policies and actions are appropriate for our AGM.
In line with prior LTIP schemes, it will grant cash awards business and that they balance the rewards to our Executive rather than shares, given the current shareholder structure and Directors for delivering first class financial performance with the lack of a large free float.
The Committee believes it is in the our medium long term strategic goals to create long term value best interests of the Company to adopt the new LTIP in order to for our shareholders.
be able to retain and motivate the Executive Directors, to provide We believe in rewarding our Executives based on their individual competitive rewards and to incentivise them to sustain and and team performance and on the value created for the build long term value in alignment with shareholder interests.
Our annual bonus scheme combines challenging financial targets with clear medium long term strategic objectives.
Summary of activity This year we are proposing a new Long Term Incentive Plan Review of basic salary to ensure these are appropriate for LTIP which will be based on the achievement of challenging the market in which we operate.
No salary increase was financial targets.
awarded to the Executive Directors at the last review in 2013.
With effect from 1 April 2014, the Committee has This Directors Remuneration Report Report is on the activities agreed that the basic salary reviews detailed on page 56 of the Committee for the period to 1 February 2014.
It sets will be implemented.
The salary increases equate to a 2% out the remuneration policy and remuneration details for the increase for the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Executive and Non-Executive directors of the Company.
There are which is in line with the general increase for our Head three sections: Office employees and 6.25% for the Group Financial - This Annual Statement.
Director so as to be more in line with the market.
- The Policy Report setting out the forward looking directors Review of annual bonus awards for the year to 1 February remuneration policy and which is subject to a binding 2014, which are set out on page 53, and appropriate shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
targets for the 2014 15 financial year.
These are based - The Annual Report on Remuneration providing details on on a combination of financial and non-financial Key how the directors remuneration policy will be operated for Performance Indicators KPIs linked to key strategic 2014 2015 and the remuneration earned in the year to objectives which are intended to reward our Executive 1 February 2014.
This Annual Report on Remuneration Directors for performance and provide alignment with together with the Annual Statement will be subject to an shareholder interests.
advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Consideration of appropriate LTIP arrangements.
The Company is proposing a new cash LTIP for the This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule Executive Directors at the 2014 AGM.
8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Consideration of the final award under the Executive Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in Chairmans special retention scheme which is outlined August 2013 Regulations.
This is the first time the Company on page 54. has prepared the Report in accordance with the amended Regulations.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have Andrew Leslie been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject 15 April 2014 to audit are indicated in that report.
The Committee keeps under review the remuneration policy and specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee is mindful that our Governance 46 47 Policy Report This directors remuneration policy will take effect, subject to it being approved by shareholders, from the date of the 2014 AGM.
Following approval, remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made to directors if they are consistent with the approved directors remuneration policy.
However, commitments made before the directors remuneration policy comes into effect and commitments made before an individual became a director will be honoured even if they are inconsistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Policy Overview The Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the right calibre to ensure the success of the Company into the future.
Remuneration should be aligned with the key corporate metrics that drive earnings growth and increased shareholder value with significant emphasis on performance related pay measured over the longer term.
Incentive arrangements for Executive Directors should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related elements and be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
Future Policy Table Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Base salary To provide competitive Base salaries for the Executive Directors are The policy of the Committee is that Not applicable fixed level remuneration reviewed annually by the Committee.
the salaries of the Executive Directors to attract and retain should be reviewed annually, although Executive Directors of The following factors are taken into account when it reserves the right to review salaries the necessary calibre to determining base salary levels: on a discretionary basis if it believes an execute the Groups Remuneration levels at comparable quoted adjustment is required to reflect market strategy and deliver UK retail companies.
The need for salaries to be competitive.
The performance of the individual.
There is no prescribed maximum Executive Director.
The Committee is Experience and responsibilities.
guided by the general increase for the Pay for other employees in the Group.
broader employee population but on The total remuneration available to the occasions may need to recognise, Executive Directors and the components for example, an increase in the scale, thereof and the cost to the Company.
scope or responsibility of the role as well as market rates.
Benefits To ensure the overall Current benefits provision is detailed The Committee determines the Not applicable package is competitive on page 53. appropriate level taking in account for Executive Directors.
market practice and individual Other benefits may be provided where circumstances.
appropriate including health insurance, life insurance death in service, travel expenses and relocation.
Governance 48 49 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Pension To provide post-retirement Payments are made into a defined contribution The rates are set at a level which the Not applicable benefits for Executive scheme with company contributions set as a Committee considers is appropriate.
Current company contribution rates The Committee has the discretion to pay a for Executive Directors are shown on cash amount in lieu of a pension contribution page 53. any such payment would not count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
Annual Bonus Executive Directors have The bonus is paid annually in cash and is 100% of salary, however, the Committee The targets are set by the opportunity to earn non-pensionable.
has the discretion to award bonuses of the Committee each performance related up to 200% of salary for exceptional year and are based on a bonuses based on the No claw back provisions apply.
combination of financial achievement of targets and strategic KPIs, with and key performance target and maximum indicators which incentivise levels.
At least two thirds the achievement of the of the annual bonus will business strategy.
be linked to financial KPIs.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the targets in the event of significant corporate activity during the year.
The Committee will review the Groups overall performance before determining final bonus levels.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances amend the bonus payout should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect the overall business performance or individual contribution.
Targets will be disclosed in the following years Annual Report.
Governance 48 49 Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Long Term To provide the Executive We are proposing a new LTIP for shareholder 200% of base salary under the The proposed LTIP Incentive Plans Directors with the approval at the 2014 AGM.
The level of any will measure financial opportunity to earn awards under such LTIP if approved performance over a 3 year competitive rewards.
Key features of the proposed LTIP are: remain under consideration of the period with targets based Cash awards not shares.
on headline earnings To align the Executive Three year performance period.
Directors interests more The performance condition can be amended closely with those of the or substituted if events occur which cause It is anticipated that shareholders.
the Committee to consider that an amended 25% of any award or substituted performance target would will vest at threshold To focus the Executive be more appropriate.
Any amended or performance increasing Directors on sustaining substituted target would not be materially on a straightline basis and improving the more or less difficult to satisfy.
to 100% for maximum long-term financial Malus provisions apply to unvested awards.
performance of the The Committee can reduce, cancel or impose Company and reward further conditions on the awards where it Targets will be disclosed them appropriately considers such action is appropriate.
in the annual accounts for doing so.
This includes where there has been a for the year following material misstatement of the Companys a performance period.
audited financial results, a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
Non-Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Non-Executive Set at a level which Cash fee paid.
Additional fees based on additional The policy of the Committee is that the None Director Fees the Committee considers responsibilities, such as acting as Senior fees paid to Non-Executive Directors reflects the time Non-Executive Director or serving as Chairman should be reviewed annually, although commitment and of Board Committees, may be paid.
it reserves the right to review fees on contributions that are a discretionary basis if it believes an expected from the Fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
adjustment is required to reflect market Non-Executive Directors rates, scope of responsibilities or The Non-Executive Directors do not participate performance.
There is no prescribed in the Companys incentive arrangements and no maximum annual increase.
pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Reasonable travel and subsistence expenses may be paid or reimbursed by the Company.
Governance 50 51 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Share Ownership Guidelines If it were necessary to attract the right candidate, due consideration would be given to making awards necessary to compensate for The Company does not have a minimum share ownership forfeited awards in a previous employment.
In making any such requirement for the Executive Directors.
Given our narrow award, the Committee will take into account any performance shareholder base, the Committee considers it impractical to set conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the form in which realistic shareholding targets.
they were granted and the timeframe of the forfeited awards.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The value of any such award will be capped to be no higher on recruitment than the forfeited awards and will not be pensionable The Committee engages directly with the major shareholders nor count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
on key aspects of the remuneration policy and will take into The Committee retains the right to exercise the discretion consideration feedback received in relation to the AGM available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 where necessary to put in or otherwise when next reviewing the policy.
place an arrangement established specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a new Executive Consideration of Employee Conditions Elsewhere in Director.
Where appropriate the Company will offer to pay the Group reasonable relocation expenses for new Executive Directors.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle that reward should be In respect of an internal promotion to the Board, any commitments achieved for delivery of our business strategy and should be made before the promotion will continue to be honoured sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent, without paying even if they would otherwise be inconsistent with the directors more than is necessary.
remuneration policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Senior executives below Board level with a significant ability to Service Contracts and Payments For Loss of Office influence company results may participate in an annual bonus Details of the contracts currently in place for Executive Directors plan and deferred bonus plan which reward both performance are as follows: and loyalty and are designed to retain and motivate.
Date of Notice Period Unexpired Approach to Recruitment Remuneration Contract Months Term In the event that a new Executive Director was to be appointed, P Cowgill 16 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months a remuneration package would be determined consistent with B Bown 20 February 2009 12 Rolling 12 months the directors remuneration policy.
In particular, new Executive B Small 10 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months Directors will participate in variable remuneration arrangements on the same basis as an existing Executive Directors.
In the event that a new Non-Executive Director was to be appointed, It is the Companys policy that notice periods for Executive Director the fees payable would be determined consistent with the service contracts are no more than 12 months.
In the event of early termination, the Company may make a termination payment not exceeding one years salary and benefits.
Incidental expenses may also be payable where appropriate.
It is in the discretion of the Committee as to whether departing directors would be paid a bonus.
In exercising its discretions on determining the amount payable to an Executive Director on termination of employment, the Board would consider each instance on an individual basis and take in account contractual terms, circumstances of the termination and the commercial interests of the Company.
When determining whether a bonus or any other payment should be made to a departing director, the Committee will ensure that no reward for failure is made.
The Committee may make a payment to a departing director for agreeing to enter into enhanced restrictive covenants following termination where it considers that it is in the best interests of the Company to do so.
Governance 50 51 In the event of gross misconduct, the Company may terminate the In the event of a change of control, LTIP awards will vest at the service contract of an Executive Director immediately and with no date of change of control other than in respect of an internal liability to make further payments other than in respect of amounts reorganisation unless the Committee determines otherwise.
accrued at the date of termination.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available The current Executive Director service contracts permit the for inspection by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM and Company to put an Executive Director on garden leave for a during normal business hours at the Companys registered maximum period of 3 months.
The Company may adjust such office address.
period as deemed appropriate for any new Executive Directors.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate The Executive Director service contracts contain a change of Governance Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves control provision whereby if 50% of more of the shares in the for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Company come under the direct or indirect control of a person or persons acting in concert, an Executive Director may serve Non-Executive Directors notice on the Company, at any time within the 12 month period The Non-Executive Directors have entered into letters of following a change of control, terminating his employment.
appointment with the Company which are terminable by the Upon termination in these circumstances, an Executive Director Non-Executive Director or the Company on not less than will be entitled to a sum equal to 112% of his basic salary three months notice.
less deductions required by law and such Executive Director waives any claim for wrongful or unfair dismissal.
The Company Non-Executive Directorships does not envisage such a provision being contained in any The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to service contracts for any new Executive Directors.
become Non-Executive Directors of other businesses and that the knowledge and experience which they gain in those appointments LTIP could be of benefit to the Company.
Prior approval of the Board is Where cessation of employment is due to ill-health, injury, required before acceptance of any new appointments.
disability or the sale of the employing entity out of the group, During the year to 1 February 2014, only Peter Cowgill held the unvested LTIP award will continue.
It will continue to vest in Non-Executive positions.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of both accordance with the original vesting date and subject to the United Carpets Group Plc and MBL Group Plc.
He has retained original performance target unless the Committee determines earnings of 72,500 2013: 72,500 in respect of these offices.
that it should vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of cessation.
Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy Where cessation of employment is due to death, the LTIP award The chart below illustrates the level of remuneration that would will, unless the Committee determine otherwise, vest as soon as be received by the Executive Director in accordance with the reasonably practicable following death.
Where the Executive directors remuneration policy in the year to 31 January 2015.
Director is dismissed lawfully without notice, the LTIP award will Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of lapse on the date of cessation.
remuneration payable at target performance and remuneration In all other circumstances the LTIP award will lapse on the date payable at maximum performance to each Director under the policy.
of cessation of employment unless the Committee determines Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each otherwise, in which case it will determine the extent to which the scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration and unvested LTIP award vest taking into account the extent to which variable remuneration.
the performance target is satisfied at the end of the performance period or, as appropriate, on the date on which employment ceases.
The period of time that has elapsed since the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment will also be taken into account unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Governance 52 53 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Fixed elements of remuneration Annual Bonus LTIP LTIP scheme to be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 AGM 2,929k 3000 2500 50% 2000 1,465k 1500 1,323k 25% 1,071k 25% 1000 49% 25% 733k 675k 48% 561k 24% 306k 24% 23% 500 351k 24% 24% 23% 100% 50% 25% 100% 52% 27% 100% 54% 28% 0 Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum P Cowgill Executive Chairman B Bown Chief Executive Officer B Small Group Finance Director The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: On target Maximum Minimum performance performance Fixed elements of remuneration The base salary is the salary as at 1 April 2014 The benefits are taken as those in the single figure table on page 53 The pension is taken as shown in the single figure table on page 53.
Annual Bonus 1 0% 50% 100% Long Term Incentive Plan 2 0% 25% 100% Note 1 the maximum annual bonus has been based on the usual maximum award of 100% of salary.
Note 2 the above graphs assume that the new LTIP is adopted at the 2014 AGM.
On target performance is 50% of salary.
Maximum performance is 200% of salary.
2 Colin Archer ceased to be a Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2013.
3 Martin Davies became a Non-Executive Directors on 1 October 2012.
4 Chris Bird ceased to be a Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2012.
The taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors are car benefits and healthcare insurance.
Pension contributions are: - Peter Cowgill 0% of salary - Barry Bown - 8% of salary - Brian Small - 12% of salary Governance 54 55 Directors Remuneration Report Continued 2010-2013 LTIP The Adjusted Profits target of 74m to achieve the maximum award of 900,000 for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2012 was An LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM met and so the first Award Tranche of 900,000 vested.
2010 LTIP and consisted of one award made in 2010 that would pay out in cash after three years, subject to continued The Adjusted Profits target to achieve the maximum award of employment and meeting performance targets which would 900,000 for the 53 weeks to 2 February 2013 was set at 74m, drive the creation of shareholder value.
The delivery mechanism with the Minimum Adjusted Profit to achieve 40% of such maximum was cash rather than shares, given the Companys shareholder award being set at 70m.
However as these targets were set structure and the lack of a large free float.
All payments would prior to the acquisition of Blacks which was targeted to deliver be non-pensionable.
additional profits in the medium term, the Committee retained a discretion to adjust the award for the impact of this acquisition, The following table outlines the structure of the 2010 LTIP: as reported in the 2012 Annual Report.
The Committee exercised 2 February 2013 its discretion in this regard and was satisfied that, excluding the Performance to 000 impact of the Blacks acquisition, the target of at least 74 million Amount Payable: in the year to 2 February 2013 would have been satisfied.
In the light of this the Committee exercised its discretion and P Cowgill 500 awarded the second Award Tranche of 900,000 in full.
B Bown 437 B Small 313 The Adjusted Profits target to achieve the maximum award of 1,700,000 for the 52 weeks to 1 February 2014 was set at 75m, Other key executives 2,750 with the Minimum Adjusted Profit to achieve 40% of such 4,000 maximum award being set at 68m.
Again, the Committee reserved the right to adjust these targets to take into account the short term impact of any corporate activity which may have The 2010 LTIP awards were paid out in full in 2013 following taken place in the year.
This discretion was not exercised.
satisfaction of the performance conditions under that plan.
No further awards can be made under the 2010 LTIP.
Given the Adjusted Profits target to achieve the maximum award for the year to 1 February 2014 has been exceeded, Executive Chairman Special Retention Scheme the Committee has determined that the third award tranche of A special retention scheme the Scheme for the Executive 1,700,000 has vested.
It is envisaged that payment of the Chairman designed to ensure that he is retained until at least awards will be made in the period between the announcement 31 March 2014 and focused on driving shareholder value was of the Companys results and the end of April 2014. approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited The Scheme provides for Mr Cowgill to receive a cash award at The interests of the Directors who held office at 1 February 2014 a certain date in the future.
The final value of the Scheme is and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares subject to the Group achieving certain profits before tax and are shown below: exceptional items Adjusted Profits.
None of the benefits which may be received under the Scheme are pensionable.
Ordinary shares of 5p each The Scheme is divided into three tranches relating to three 1 February 2 February accounting periods of the Group being the years ending 2014 2013 28 January 2012, 2 February 2013 and 1 February 2014 P Cowgill 410,263 410,263 Award Tranches.
Each Award Tranche has a maximum value, B Bown 5,676 5,676 which will be paid out if the Adjusted Profits target for the relevant B Small 23,950 23,950 accounting period is met.
If the Adjusted Profits target is not met 439,889 439,889 for any particular accounting period, the value of the relevant Award Tranche will be reduced pro-rata according to the actual profits before tax and exceptional items of the Group.
If the There has been no change in the interests of the Directors or Adjusted Profits are less than an agreed figure the Minimum their connected persons between 1 February 2014 and the date Adjusted Profits, the Award Tranche will lapse and no cash of this report.
The holdings stated above are held directly by the payment will be made to Mr Cowgill.
Directors and are not subject to any performance targets.
The Directors have no other interests in Company shares.
As stated in the directors remuneration policy, the Company does not have a minimum share ownership requirement for Directors.
Given our narrow shareholder base, the Committee considers it impractical to set realistic shareholding targets.
Governance 54 55 The annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting level as a percentage Scheme Interests Awards During the Year Audited of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
No awards were made during the year under any long term incentive scheme.
January January January January January Year Ended 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Payments to Past Directors Audited Total remuneration 000 1,604 1,810 2,293 2,045 3,137 No payments were made during the year to any past director.
Annual bonus % 100 120 75 37 100 LTIP vesting % 100 100 100 100 n a Loss of Office Payments Audited No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
The Committee exercised its discretion in 2011 to award Total Shareholder Return bonuses of 120% of salary as the Groups performance The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR was considerably above market expectations early in that of the Group in comparison to the FTSE All Share General financial year.
Retailers Index over the past five years.
The Committee consider Percentage change in Executive Chairmans remuneration the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index a relevant index for total shareholder return comparison disclosure required under The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive the Regulations as the index represents the broad range of UK Chairmans salary, benefits and annual bonus between financial quoted retailers.
years 2 February 2013 and 1 February 2014 compared to UK Head Office employees in the JD and Size?
businesses, being TSR is calculated for each financial year end relative to the base deemed by the Board as the most appropriate comparator group.
date of 31 January 2009 by taking the percentage change of the market price over the relevant period, re-investing any dividends % at the ex-dividend rate.
change Salary Executive Chairman 0 1,000% UK Head Office Employee average 2.5 Benefits 900% Executive Chairman 0 800% UK Head Office Employee average 0 700% Annual Bonus 600% Executive Chairman includes special retention bonus 173 500% UK Head Office Employee average 71 400% 300% Comparator group as defined above.
There are circa 770 employees within this group.
200% 100% Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay 0% for all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % 2014 2013 change JD Sports Fashion plc Staff costs 000 213,653 208,702 2.4 FTSE All Share General Retailers Index Dividends 000 12,871 12,408 3.7 Executive Chairmans Remuneration Over Past 5 Years Tax 000 14,810 12,232 21.1 Audited Retained profits 000 41,486 41,242 0.6 The total remuneration figures for the Executive Chairman during each of the last 5 financial years are shown in the table below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that years performance and LTIP awards based on three year performance periods ending in the relevant financial year.
Governance 56 57 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy Consideration by Directors of Matters Relating to Directors in 2014 15 Remuneration The Committee comprises two independent Non-Executive Salaries Directors, being Andrew Leslie and Martin Davies.
Andrew Leslie The Committee recognised that last year in the difficult and was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee on volatile trading environment it was important that pay restraint 1 October 2013.
Colin Archer was Chairman of the Committee was exercised generally and that the Executive Directors should until 30 September 2013. lead on this issue.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that The Committee assists the Board in determining the Groups the salaries for the Executive Directors would remain unchanged policy on Executive Directors remuneration and determines the last year.
Following this years review, the Committee has specific remuneration packages for senior executives, including determined that salaries for the current year will be revised as the Executive Directors, on behalf of the Board.
Peter Cowgill, follows with effect from 1 April 2014: the Executive Chairman, Barry Bown, the Chief Executive Officer, Position and Brian Small, the Group Finance Director, have assisted the Previous New Against Committee when requested with regards to matters concerning Salary Salary Percentage Computer key executives below Board level.
000 000 Increase Group The Committee can obtain independent advice at the Companys P Cowgill 718 732 2 Upper Quartile expense where they consider it appropriate and in order to perform B Bown 318 324 2 Lower Quartile their duties.
No such advice was obtained during 2013 14.
B Small 240 255 6.25 Lower Quartile The Committee is formally constituted with written Terms of Reference, which are available on the Companys corporate The Comparator Group for these purposes is the FTSE 350 website www.
The Committee is willing to engage companies.
with any of the major shareholders or other representative groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
The salary increases for P Cowgill and B Bown are in line with the general salary increase for Head Office employees.
The Committee is mindful of the Companys social, ethical and Following review of B Smalls salary, the Committee deemed environmental responsibilities and is satisfied that the current it appropriate to award a higher increase so as to be more remuneration arrangements and policies do not encourage in line with the market.
The Committee has met four times during the year under review Annual Bonus Performance Targets with each member attending all the meetings.
Details of The targets in respect of the annual bonus for the financial year attendance at the Committee meetings are set out on page 41. to 31 January 2015 are deemed to be commercially sensitive and so will be disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report.
Statement of Voting at General Meeting At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received LTIP operation the following votes from shareholder.
Annual performance targets for the three financial years comprising the performance period will be set at the date of grant based on headline earnings for the relevant 2013 AGM % financial year.
A third of the award will be subject to this Votes cast for 37,579,895 94.31 performance target in the first financial year, a third of the Votes cast against 2,266,118 5.69 award will be subject to the performance target in the Total votes cast 39,846,013 second financial year and the remaining third will be Votes withheld 0 subject to the performance target in the third financial year.
In order for the relevant portion of the award to vest at the end of the three year period the relevant target for This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board each proportion of the award must continue to be met at the end of the three year performance period.
The targets in respect of the LTIP are deemed to be Andrew Leslie commercially sensitive.
However, the targets for the three Chairman of the Remuneration Committee year performance period will be disclosed in the Annual 15 April 2014 Report following the end of the performance period.
