REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER The annual bonus is based predominantly on financial performance conditions designed to reward the delivery of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our first Groups strategy of pursuing growth without compromising the remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December brand.
For 2015, the annual bonus will be subject to three key 2014.
This has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of performance metrics: the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Company and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment 1 A revenue growth metric to support the long-term growth Regulations 2013. strategy of the business and the sustainability of thebrand: 2 A profit growth metric to ensure that any growth delivers In line with the regulations, this Directors Remuneration Report has appropriate returns to shareholders: and been split into three parts: 3 A cash conversion metric to ensure that the business is delivering sufficient cash returns to cover its operating costs.
This Annual Statement: The Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Directors A long-term incentive, which is the primary tool to be used to Remuneration Policy of JimmyChoo PLC.
This will be subject to drive the long-term business strategy and align the interests of the a binding vote at our 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM : and management team with those of the Companys shareholders.
The Annual Remuneration Report which sets out details on how the Directors were remunerated in the period to To ensure that the long-term incentive plan achieves its primary 31December 2014, and how the policy will be implemented objectives and to ensure that it acts as a strong motivation and in 2015.
This will be subject to an advisory vote at our retention tool, we have considered it appropriate for awards under the 2015 AGM.
plan to be subject to an extended vesting period whereby no value isreceived unless the participant remains in employment for a period REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY of at least five years from the date of grant only.
We believe that As set out in the Companys prospectus, the remuneration package management continuity, in particular in an industry where the for our Executive Directors has been designed based on the management team issynonymous with the products developed following key principles: andthe brand vision, iskey to delivering long-term returns forshareholders.
Fixed remuneration should be set at a suitable level to attract and retain executives with the required calibre to run a company We appreciate that operating a long-term incentive plan that is not with the size and growth profile of the Company.
Base salaries subject to forward looking performance conditions is not common are generally targeted around market median of a suitable practice compared to other FTSE listed companies, however, we peergroup.
strongly believe that granting awards subject to an extended vesting Variable remuneration, in particular long-term incentives, should period rather than granting awards which are subject to performance form a significant part of the remuneration package to encourage over a shorter period i. e. three years from the date of grant, is more a high-performance culture and to ensure that the interests of likely to drive behaviours that are in the interests of long-term value executives are strongly aligned with those of the Companys creation for shareholders.
In line with the above, the total target cash remuneration To emphasise the link between the management team and opportunity for Executive Directors fixed remuneration and shareholders, the Committee also encourages the Executive target annual bonus is set at around the market median of a Directors to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
The total remuneration opportunity for Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant Executive Directors fixed remuneration, annual bonus and shareholding in the Company over the seven years following long-term incentives is targeted at around the upper quartile Admission.
The shareholding guideline for Pierre Denis is 500% ofa suitable peer group.
ofbase salary and forJonathan Sinclair is 200% of base salary.
In recognition of our remuneration philosophy, the variable Following the grants that were made to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors are made shortly after Admission of the Company, there is currently no up of an appropriate balance of both short and long-term incentives intention for them to participate in the long-term incentive plan to ensure that our Executive Directors are focused on delivering in2015.
both annual as well as long-term returns for shareholders.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 58 2014 PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION OUTCOMES 2014 represented a strong year of performance for JimmyChoo PLC, its first year as a publicly listed company.
Particular highlights for 2014 include: revenue of 299.7m, which were up 6.4% on 2013: 7.2% growth in Adjusted EBITDA to 50.2m: opening a net nine new stores and extension of our new store concept to 15 stores: continuing rollout of SAP and shared services around JimmyChoo: consolidation of Choo 24:7 and successful launch of CHOO.
08: and important development of our online and mens businesses.
In light of the level of performance achieved in 2014 against objectives that were set prior to the IPO, the Remuneration and Nominations Committee approved bonus payments of c. 43% of salary to the CEOand c. 30% of salary to the CFO, pro-rated for time based onhisperiod of employment during the year.
Further details on performance against the targets are set out on page 69.
As noted above, the long-term incentive plan for the Executive Directors are not subject to forward looking performance conditions.
As required under the regulations, the single figure table therefore includes the face value of shares awarded shorty following Admission.
The Executive Directors have not received any value from these awards at this stage, as they are subject to extended continued employment requirements.
Should an Executive Director leave the Company prior to vesting, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, these awards would be forfeit.
I hope that you find the Remuneration Report helpful, clear and informative and I hope you will support the resolutions to approve the Directors remuneration policy and the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM.
BART BECHT CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE 18 March 2015 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 59 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT The following sets out the Remuneration Policy the Policy for Directors of the Company.
This Policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
Subject to shareholder approval, this Policy will apply to payments made on or after the date of the 2015 AGM 27 May 2015 and will be effective for three years.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of the Executive Directors is set by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee the Committee under delegated powers from the Board.
POLICY TABLE Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary To recognise the The Committee sets base Salaries for Executive N A responsibilities, experience salaries within the same Directors are targeted and ability of our talent framework as those for all at around the median in a competitive global other employees taking for competitors.
environment, keeping into account a range of our people focused factors, including: Whilst there is no on, and passionate maximum salary, any about, the brand.
the individuals skills, increases will normally be performance and in line with the range of experience: increase for all employees their overall contribution across the Group.
to the business during the year: The Committee retains the cost to the Company: the flexibility to award salary increases increases above this level awarded across the in certain circumstances, Group as a whole: for example: the external economic climate: and to reflect the individuals external benchmark data development and at other global performance in the role: companies of similar to reflect a significant size and or global reach increase in the within relevant sectors individuals role or and or companies with responsibility: and ahigh growth profile.
where a new recruit or promoted employees Base salaries are normally salary has been set reviewed, although not lower than the market necessarily increased, level for such a role and annually.
Base salaries larger increases are may be reviewed more justified in the frequently at the discretion Committees opinion as of the Committee.
the individual becomes established in the role.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
Pension To offer market competitive Executive directors may Maximum Company N A retirement benefits, receive contributions into contribution: up to 25% to recruit and retain a defined contribution of salary per annum.
appropriate talent to arrangement, as a The company pension lead the business.
cash allowance or as a contribution for the combination thereof.
executive directors for 2015 is: Base salary is the only element of remuneration CEO 50,000 to the that is pensionable.
Caisse des Franais fide LEtranger or as a cashallowance CFO up to 10% ofsalary.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 60 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Other benefits To promote the wellBenefit levels are normally The aggregate maximum N A and allowances being of employees, reviewed on an annual value of all other benefits allowing them to focus basis and the cost to the and allowances is not on the business.
Company of providing normally anticipated to benefits can vary due to exceed 200,000 per a number of factors.
Benefits for Executive The Committee retains Directors may include, the discretion to approve a but are not limited to: higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. private medical recruitment or relocation insurance including for or in circumstances their spouse and for where factors outside the dependant children : Companys control have life assurance: changed materially e. g. long-term disability increases in private medical insurance: insurance premiums.
car or car allowance: an allowance for school fees for dependant children: clothing allowance: employee discount: other benefits provided to all employees across the Group: and the Company paying any tax or social security contributions due on any of the benefits.
Other benefits may be provided, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
Reasonably incurred expenses will also be reimbursed.
The Committee may agree that the Company will pay additional allowances linked to relocation or international assignment where required.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 61 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Bonus To reward Executive Awards are based on an The maximum opportunity Performance is measured Directors for achieving appropriate balance of under the annual bonus against a range of key annual financial targets or financial and non-financial plan is 200% of salary in performance metrics, other short-term objectives performance metrics.
determined on an annual linked to the strategic plan basis to ensure they remain agreed by the Board.
Performance targets are set The maximum bonus appropriate and are aligned annually by the Committee.
opportunities for 2015 are: with the Groups strategy.
At the end of the year, the CEO 120% of salary.
The weighting between the Committee determines CFO 50% of salary.
measures is determined on the extent to which the an annual basis, however performance targets have at least 75% will be based been achieved.
In doing so, on measures relating to the Committee exercises financial performance.
its judgement to ensure that the outcomes are Performance is measured fair in the context of the over 12 months.
underlying performance of the Group as a whole.
For performance below Bonus pay-outs are in cash.
threshold, the bonus payout is nil.
For threshold Bonus awards are subject performance, the bonus to clawback details set payout is 25% of maximum.
For target performance, the bonus payout is up to 75% of maximum.
For 2015, 100% of the annual bonus opportunity will be based on financial performance metrics.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 62 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long-Term To incentivise and reward Under the long-term The Committee calibrates Vesting of awards is subject Incentive Plan participants for the delivery incentive plan, awards long-term incentive share to continued employment.
of long-term performance, of shares may be awards for participants as and align the interests granted, which normally a fixed number of shares.
of Executive Directors vest subject to the with our shareholders.
continued employment The Committee will of the participant for a determine annual award five-year period from levels for each of the the date of grant.
Executive Directors taking into account its Long-term incentive awards philosophy that the total are normally granted in compensation opportunity the form of conditional for Executive Directors shares or options with a should be positioned at total exercise price of 1 around the upper quartile or such higher amount of an appropriate peer as determined by the group as determined Committee at grant.
may however be awarded in other forms if it is The maximum award to considered appropriate.
any individual in respect of any one financial year Unvested awards are will be over no more than subject to malus details 2,500,000 shares.
Details set out later in this report.
of the awards in respect of each financial year will Dividend equivalents may be disclosed in the Annual accrue over the five-year Report on Remuneration.
These will normally be paid in shares on a cumulative reinvestment basis.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the plan rules.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE DISCRETION TO HONOUR ALL PRIOR COMMITMENTS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office where the terms were agreed before this Policy came into effect or prior to an individual being appointed a director of the Company and the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares including awards granted prior to and shortly after Admission of the Company including the JC PLC Share Award and the One-Off Share Award as detailed below, in line with the terms of the payment that were agreed at the time the award was granted.
JC PLC SHARE AWARD Prior to Admission, a co-investment plan was operated which required executives to invest in shares of Choo Luxury Holdings Limited.
In return for the participants investment in these shares, they were granted matching phantom i. e. cash settled options which participated in the growth in the value of the company from the date of the investment to the end of the vesting period.
On Admission of the Company, participants exercised a portion of their phantom options.
The remaining phantom options were surrendered by participants.
Following Admission of the Company, participants were granted awards in the form of an option with a nominal total exercise price of 1 or conditional share awards.
The number of shares awarded was linked to the Black-Scholes value of the phantom options surrendered.
These awards will normally become exercisable or will vest in equal tranches in July 2016, July 2017 and July 2018 subject to the participants continued employment with the Group.
Details of the outstanding awards made to the CEO under the plan are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 63 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED ONE-OFF SHARE AWARD PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO TARGET SET TING Following Admission of the Company, selected senior management The performance measures for the annual bonus are set by the and the Executive Directors of the Company were granted a one-off Remuneration and Nominations Committee on an annual basis award in the form of an option with a nominal total exercise price toreflect the Groups financial objectives for any given year.
of 1 or conditional shares, which normally vest 50% on the fifth and 50% on the sixth anniversary of the date of grant subject The performance targets applied to the annual bonus are to the participants continued employment with the Group.
reviewed annually, based on a number of internal reference The CFOs award vests in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth points including the budget for the financial year and prior year and sixth anniversary of the date of grant, subject to his continued performance and external reference points including consensus employment with the Group.
Details of the outstanding awards forecasts, forecasts for the wider luxury industry as well as made to Executive Directors under the plan are set out in the the wider economic environment.
The Committee believes that the pay-outs under the bonus plan REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE DISCRETION IN should only be received for out-performance.
Given the level of REL ATION TO FUTURE OPERATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY stretch in the performance targets for the annual bonus at all levels, In the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, dividend in the Committee considers it appropriate to set pay-outs for target specie, special dividend or similar event, the Committee may adjust performance at up to 75% of the maximum.
Maximum awards will or amend awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan.
only be earned where the performance of the Group has significantly exceeded expectations.
If the Company has been or will be affected by a demerger, dividend in specie, special dividend or other transaction which will affect the The following sets out the performance measures that will be used current or future value of the Companys shares, awards may vest to for the annual bonus for 2015: the extent the Committee determines, which may include awards being time pro-rated if the Committee considers it appropriate.
MEASURES revenue growth: The Committee retains the discretion to amend performance targets net income growth: and in exceptional business or regulatory circumstances or to vary such reduction in net working capital as a percentage of revenue.
targets if acting fairly and reasonably if it considers it appropriate to do so.
If discretion is exercised in this way the Committee may WHY consult with major shareholders as appropriate.
The measures were chosen to support the Companys key financial objectives for 2015 of: The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative growth: purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without margin expansion: and obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
MALUS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS AND SHAREHOLDER ALIGNMENT Under the malus provision, the Committee can reduce awards that The Committee believes that the long-term incentive plan should have not yet vested.
Malus may apply where stated in the Policy primarily be used as a tool to align the interests of the management table above.
team with those of the Companys shareholders.
The circumstances in which malus would apply are set out below: In order to achieve this primary objective and to ensure that the long-term incentive plan acts as a strong motivation and retention where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys tool, encouraging individuals to remain in long-term employment with Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year the Company, the Committee considers it appropriate to grant during which the award was granted and or for any subsequent long-term incentive awards that are subject to an extended vesting financial year ending before either the last date when the award period i. e. five years from the date of grant rather than granting becomes exercisable or the final vesting date: awards which are subject to performance over a shorter period i. e. where there has been serious reputational damage to the Company three years from the date of grant, which the Committee considers as a result of the participants actions or the actions of amember of may drive shorter-term behaviours.
the team for which the participant is directly responsible: where the participant has deliberately misled the Company, the To emphasise the link between the management team and Companys shareholders or the market regarding the Companys shareholders, the Committee also encourages the Executive financial performance: or Directors to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant shareholding in the Company over the seven years following CL AW BACK Admission.
The shareholding guideline for the CEO is 500% The Committee can reclaim bonus payments made from 2016 of base salary and for the CFO is200% of base salary.
onwards, for a period of up to two years post the payment date in the following circumstances: where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year to which the bonus payment relates: or gross misconduct.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 64 SCENARIO CHARTS The regulations require the inclusion of a scenario chart which sets out what each of the Executive Directors could receive for varying levels of performance in respect of the first year in which the Policy is to be effective.
As set out in the Companys Prospectus, the Committee does not currently intend to grant a long-term incentive award in respect of 2015 and as such no determination has yet been made on the number of shares that would be granted to each of the Executive Directors under the long-term incentive plan.
The following chart therefore only includes the value of base salary, pension, other benefits and allowances andthe annual bonus.
CEO SCENARIO CHART CFO SCENARIO CHART THRESHOLD 10 0 % 0.8 9 M THRESHOLD 10 0 % 0.5 9 M TARGET 60 % 40 % 1.47 M TARGET 82 % 18 % 0.72 M MA XIMUM 53 % 47 % 1.6 7 M MA XIMUM 7 7 % 23 % 0.76 M FIXED PAY ANNUAL REWARD FIXED PAY ANNUAL REWARD The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Below threshold is based on fixed pay only, which includes 2015 base salary, pension assuming both of the Executive Directors participate in the pension and other benefits and allowances.
For simplicity the normal maximum other benefit and allowances cap of200,000 has been used.
It is noted that the actual level of benefits will vary by year.
Target includes fixed pay as noted above and target bonus opportunity 75% of the maximum.
Maximum includes fixed pay as noted above and the maximum bonus opportunity.
The Committee does not currently intend to grant a long-term incentive award in respect of 2015.
The value of long-term incentives hastherefore been excluded from the above.
Awards granted shortly after Admission have also been excluded as these were one-off in nature.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose Approach to fees Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Fees are set at a market appropriate rate with reference to fees paid to other Non-Executive To attract and retain high-calibre Directors at companies of a similar size to the Company and to reflect the time commitment Non-Executive Directors.
and the personal contribution expected from Non-Executive Directors.
Fees are normally reviewed annually.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board based on a recommendation from the Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
The Chairman is paid a single fee for allresponsibilities.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board based on a recommendation from the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for their role.
Additional fees may be paid for additional board duties such as chairmanship of a committee and the Senior Independent Director role.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are expected to invest 50% of their net of tax fees in the Companys shares.
Any investment at Admission is recognised as a prepayment of such investment of fees.
Fees paid are subject to a maximum cap which is stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in this would be subject to shareholder approval.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
Additional fees or benefits may be other benefits provided, where appropriate, at the discretion of the Board.
To enable the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive undertake their roles.
arrangements operated by the Company.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 65 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW HIRES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Committee aims to attract, motivate and retain an Executive If a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director is appointed, Director with the required expertise to develop and deliver the remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with business strategy, while at the same time ensuring that the those detailed in the remuneration policy for Non-Executive remuneration arrangements offered are in the best interests Directors above.
ofboththe Company and its shareholders.
SERVICE CONTRACT AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS In determining the appropriate remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director service agreements, including for early recruit, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors, termination, are carefully reviewed by the Committee.
The including but not limited to, the individuals skills and expertise, local Committee does not believe that there should be any element market practice, appropriate market data, and the individuals existing ofreward for failure.
The Committees approach to termination payments is to consider In cases of hiring a new recruit to the Board including an internal each case on an individual basis taking into account any prepromote, the Committee will ensure that the remuneration established contractual agreements including the provisions of any arrangements are in line with the approved remuneration policy and incentive plans, the performance and conduct of the individual and all its elements as set out in the table above.
The ongoing annual the commercial justification for any payments.
remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors will therefore comprise: The key terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, asstipulated in their service agreements are set out below: base salary: suitable pension and other benefits and allowances which may NOTICE PERIOD include a relocation allowance where the Committee considers Each Executive Directors service agreement is terminable by itappropriate : theExecutive Director on six months written notice.
an annual bonus opportunity: and The Company may terminate Pierre Denis service agreement a long-term incentive award.
The Company may terminate Jonathan Sinclairs service The maximum ongoing level of annual variable remuneration which agreement on six months written notice.
may be awarded to a new executive shall therefore be limited to the For new appointments the Committees policy is that Executive levels set out in the Policy table i. e. 200% of salary for the annual Director service agreements will provide up to twelve months bonus and 2,500,000 shares under the long-term incentive plan for notice by the Company and up to twelve months notice by the Executive Directors, excluding buy-out awards.
The Committee retains the flexibility to undertake the following TERMINATION PAYMENTS actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and The Company is entitled to terminate each Executive Directors therefore shareholders: employment immediately and make a payment in lieu of notice comprising the executives base salary in respect of the notice For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional period or the remaining part of it and a sum equal to the value of cash and or share awards buy-out awards to take account of other benefits during the notice period or the remaining part of it.
remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer.
As far Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide Jonathan as possible and appropriate, such payments would reflect the Sinclair with his contractual benefits for the duration of what nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to would have been his notice period or the remaining part of it.
Where appropriate, the Committee The Company may elect at its discretion to make the payment in retains the discretion to utilise Listing Rule 9.4.
2 for the purpose lieu as a lump sum or to pay half the payment in lieu as a lump of making such an award.
sum and to pay the second half subsequently in equal instalments.
For an internal appointment, the Committee would honour any A duty to mitigate may apply to the payment in instalments.
contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Executive Director level, even in instances where they would ANNUAL BONUS nototherwise be consistent with the prevailing Policy at the time Where an Executive Director leaves office during the performance of appointment.
period or after the end of the performance year but before If necessary, the Committee may offer additional cash and or payment is made any bonus will be at the discretion of the share based elements to secure an appointment, for which the Committee.
Any payment will typically be on a pro-rata basis up Committee has not set a maximum.
The Committee would tothe termination date, taking into account the extent to which determine the performance conditions and time horizons that any performance targets have been met.
would apply to such awards at the time.
The Committee would Under his service contract, other than in certain bad-leaver provide full disclosure of the rationale for such an award in the circumstances, where the Company gives notice to Pierre Denis, Directors Remuneration Report in the year following such he is entitled to a pro-rata annual bonus taking into account time in anaward.
employment during the financial year and the extent to which any performance targets have been met.
Upon voluntary resignation or termination for cause no bonus payment would be made.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 66 LONG-TERM INCENTIVES The appointments of each Non-Executive Director are for a fixed The treatment of long-term incentive awards is governed by the term of six years, subject to annual re-election in general meeting.
The appointments of all the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated at any time upon written notice, in accordance with the JC PLC SHARE AWARD Articles of Association or upon their resignations.
In addition, the If a participant ceases employment with the Group by reason appointment of the Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to ofdisability, death or dismissal without cause including mutual the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and agreement the Committee will determine the number of unvested JAB Luxury may be terminated in accordance with that agreement.
awards that will vest taking into account the proportion of time REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE REST OF THE COMPANY elapsed since the original investment was made under the co-investment plan and a pre-agreed pro-rating approach for The remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors outlined eachtranche of the award.
above are consistent with those for the other employees in the In other circumstances, unless the Committee determines Group, although quantum and award opportunities vary by Executive otherwise, unvested awards will lapse on cessation level.
Only the senior most executives in the Group participate in the ofemployment.
Awards to the extent that they have vested on cessation of employment or for any reason or that are allowed to vest as During its deliberations on executive remuneration, the Committee referred to above will be exercisable for a period of up to twelve considers the reward framework for all employees worldwide, months from the date of cessation or if earlier until the end of ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the Executive theoption exercise period.
Merit increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration.
ONE-OFF SHARE AWARD AND FUTURE AWARDS UNDER THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Due to the size and geographical spread of the Groups operations, Unless the Committee in its sole discretion determines otherwise itdoes not invite employees to comment on the Directors in which case it will determine the terms on which awards vest Remuneration Policy.
and may be exercised, if a participant ceases to be employed bythe Group for any reason, any awards will lapse on cessation CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS ofemployment.
Although the Company only recently became a public listed company, the Committee recognises the importance of understanding the OTHER views of their new shareholders.
The Committee is therefore open to Legal fees and outplacement costs may be paid if the Committee listening to the views of our new shareholders through the year and considers this commercially appropriate.
at the annual general meeting.
CHANGE OF CONTROL The Committee Chairman speaks with the Companys largest In the event of a change of control, Executive Directors may shareholder on the subject of remuneration as and when appropriate.
receive a bonus in respect of the year in which the change of The Companys largest shareholder is very supportive of the control occurs, which, unless the Committee determines Companys philosophy and policy on remuneration.
The Committee otherwise, will be pro-rated by reference to the time elapsed in will continue to keep its remuneration policy under review to ensure the bonus year and performance achieved.
that it remains aligned with the Companys strategic objectives and Long-term incentive awards will normally vest, taking into account provides strong alignment with shareholder interests.
the time elapsed between grant and vest, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for an equivalent award in the acquirer, where appropriate.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors and Chairman of the Board have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The Chairmans letter of appointment states that his appointment is expected to last for at least six years, subject to annual re-election ingeneral meeting.
His appointment is terminable at any time upon written notice, in accordance with the Articles of Association, his resignation or in accordance with the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and JAB Luxury.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 67 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The Committee considers the exact performance targets to be commercially sensitive and as such these have not been EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS disclosed ahead of the financial year.
However, in next years STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Committee will BASE SAL ARY provide shareholders with appropriate context on performance No changes have been made to base salaries since Admission of the against the performance targets and the rationale for any Company.
The table below shows base salaries for 2015. bonus pay-outs, within commercial constraints.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PL AN Pierre Denis 650,000 There is currently no intention for Executive Directors to participate inthe long-term incentive plan in 2015, given the awards received Jonathan Sinclair 350,000 shortly after Admission.
PENSION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS In respect of Pierre Denis, the Company will contribute up to 50,000 The following table sets out the Non-Executive Director fee structure to the Caisse des Franais fide lEtranger.
In respect of Jonathan for 2015: Sinclair, the Company will contribute 10% of base salary to the Companys Group Personal Pension Scheme if he contributes at least5% of base salary.
Chairman 150,000 BENEF ITS Basic fee for Non-Executive Directors 50,000 The Committee sets benefits in line with the policy set out on pages Board Committee Chairman 15,000 60 to 63.
For 2015, both of the Executive Directors will receive private medical insurance for himself, his spouse and dependent children and Senior Independent Director 5,000 life assurance.
As agreed as part of his relocation arrangements on joining the Group, Pierre Denis will also be reimbursed for annual Fees will be paid in cash.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman school fees in respect of his children up to a maximum of 18,000 are expected to invest 50% of their net of tax fees in the Companys per child and receive a company car.
shares, taking into account any investment prepaid at Admission.
ANNUAL BONUS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 AUDITED respect of 2015 will be as follows: The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Given that JimmyChoo PLC only listed as a public company on 22 October 2014, Pierre Denis 120% of base salary the figures shown represent the remuneration received over the period 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 and therefore do not Jonathan Sinclair 50% of base salary include a prior year comparison figure.
For 2015, the annual bonus opportunity will be based solely on The Executive Directors did not provide any qualifying services the following financial performance metrics: revenue growth between 1 September 2014 the date of appointment as Directors measured on a constant exchange rate basis, net income ofJimmyChoo PLC and 22 October 2014. growth and a reduction in net working capital as a percentage of revenue.
Annual bonus awards will be paid in cash.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 68 Other Total pre Base benefits and Annual long-term Long-term 1 salary Pension allowances Bonus incentives incentives Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Pierre Denis 128 8 15 55 206 5,147 5,353 Jonathan Sinclair 68 2 20 90 1,500 1,590 1 The amounts shown in this column reflect the value on grant of the awards made shortly after Admission of the Company to Pierre Denis and Jonathan Sinclair.
Although the regulations require the disclosure of the full grant value of the awards in this table, these awards are subject to continued employment requirements.
Further details of the vesting schedule for these awards are set out on pages 63 and 64.
ELEMENTS OF THE SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION BASE SALARY The values shown in the table represent the amount received since Admission of the Company.
Annualised base salaries for the Executive Directors following Admission were: Pierre Denis 650,000 Jonathan Sinclair 350,000 PENSION For Pierre Denis, this represents the Companys contribution to the Caisse des Franais fide lEtranger.
Jonathan Sinclair did not participate in the pension arrangements in 2014.
OTHER BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES The values shown in the table represents the taxable value of benefits received during the financial year since Admission of the Company.
For Pierre Denis this includes: company car, school fees which is only drawn in respect of one of his three dependant children, private healthcare and product allowances.
For Jonathan Sinclair this includes: private healthcare and product allowances.
ANNUAL BONUS The value shown in the table reflects the annual bonus earned in respect of performance in the year ended 31 December 2014, pro-rated over the period since Admission of the Company.
The bonus was paid in cash.
The Executive Directors annual bonus awards in relation to performance during 2014 were measured against a basket of metrics and objectives.
For Pierre Denis and Jonathan Sinclair, they were weighted 70% on Group financial objectives and 30% on strategic objectives.
The table below shows the overall outcome against each of the financial measures.
The Board considered the financial performance of the Group to be strong in the year, and in particular, the Group made strong progress against the revenue target set at the beginning of the year.
Although absolute Adjusted EBITDA performance was resilient during the year, the stretching targets set at the beginning of the year were not met and nor were the net working capital targets.
Weighting as a total of Performance achieved as annual bonus opportunity apercentage of maximum Pierre Jonathan Payout Performance measure Denis Sinclair Threshold Target Maximum % maximum Adjusted EBITDA 25% 25% 0% Revenue at constant exchange rates 25% 25% 85.2% Net working capital as a percentage of revenue 20% 20% 0% JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 69 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Actual targets have not been disclosed as they were set at a time prior to the Company becoming a listed Company and as such the Board considers the underlying targets to be commercially sensitive and any disclosure of such targets could be seriously prejudicial to the Groupsbusiness.
A portion of Pierre Denis bonus was subject to performance against strategic objectives set at the beginning of the year.
Pierre demonstrated strong performance against these objectives during the year, his key achievements in the year include development of the distribution network, leadership of the IPO and the transformation programme.
A portion of Jonathan Sinclairs bonus was also subject to performance against strategic objectives set at the beginning of the year.
Jonathan demonstrated strong performance against these objectives during the year, his key achievements in the year include a number of aspects of the successful IPO and the transformation programme.
As a result of the above performance, the Committee considered it appropriate to pay Pierre Denis a bonus of c. 43% of salary and Jonathan Sinclair a bonus of c. 30% of salary, pro-rated for time based on his period of employment during the year LONG-TERM INCENTIVES As required under the regulations, the values shown in the table represents the face value of shares based on a share price of 1.40 awarded following Admission which are subject to the Executive Directors continued employment with the Company only.
Although the regulations require the disclosure of the full grant value of the awards in the single figure table, these awards are subject to continued employment requirements as set out below.
The individuals have not yet received any value from these awards at this stage.
For Pierre Denis, this includes the face value of shares granted to him under the JC PLC Share Award, which as set out in the Remuneration Policy were granted to replace awards under a phantom share option plan that was operated by the Group prior to Admission.
The value of the shares granted were linked to the Black-Scholes value of the phantom options that were surrendered by Mr. Denis before Admission of Company.
These awards will only become exercisable in equal tranches in July 2016, July 2017 and July 2018 subject to Mr. Denis continued employment with the Company.
It also includes the face value of the shares granted to him under the one-off award which was made shortly after Admission, which will vest 50% on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant and 50% on the sixth anniversary of the date of grant subject to Mr. Denis continued employment with the Company.
For Jonathan Sinclair, this includes the face value of shares granted to him under the one-off award which was made shortly after Admission, which will vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversary of the date of grant subject to Mr Sinclairs continued employment with the Company.
SCHEME INTERESTS GRANTED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED The table below sets out the details on the awards made to Executive Directors during the financial year, namely the JC PLC Share Award and the One-Off Share Award.
Face value of Performance 1 Award Individual Type of award award at grant Vesting period for awards measures Threshold and maximum vesting JC PLC Pierre Nominal 1,847,167 Awards become exercisable Share Award Denis cost in equal tranches in July 2 option 2016, July 2017 and July2018 Subject to 100% of the awards become Pierre 3,300,000 Awards become exercisable continued exercisable on the dates set Denis in equal tranches in October employment out in the column vesting 2019 and October 2020 Nominal only period for awards One-Off cost Jonathan 1,500,001 Awards become exercisable Share Award 2 option Sinclair in equal tranches in October 2018, October 2019 and October 2020 1 Based on the share price used for the grant of awards of 1.40.
These shares were granted on 30 October 2014.
2 Total exercise price of option on exercise 1.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 70 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors and shareholder interests through the executives building up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant shareholding in the Company over the seven years following Admission.
The shareholding guideline for Pierre Denis is 500% of base salary and for Jonathan Sinclair is 200% of base salary.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2014: Shares acquired Total value of by the Director Total number of Shares acquired Total number of shares owned at during the period shares owned as at sold by the Director shares owned at 31 December as a 31 December 2014 1 2 Individual 22 October 2014 during the period 31 December 2014 percentage of salary and 18 March 2015 3 Pierre Denis 2,771,429 2,771,429 746% Jonathan Sinclair 35,714 35,714 18% 1 Includes shares held by the Director and by their connected persons.
2 Based on a closing share price on 31 December 2014 of 175p.
3 As disclosed in the Prospectus, following Pierre Deniss exercise of awards under the previous phantom share option plan, he agreed to make an investment in JimmyChoo PLC shares.
Pursuant to this agreement, Pierre Denis purchased 771,429 shares immediately following Admission of the Company.
In order to fund his investment, Pierre Denis has entered into a loan agreement with HSBC, pursuant to which he agreed to grant a pledge over 2,771,429 shares to HSBC.
Pierre Denis has agreed that he will hold these shares in line with and in the same proportions as the vesting schedule for the JC PLC Share Awards.
As shown in the table above Pierre Denis has met his shareholding guideline.
Jonathan Sinclair is on-target to meet his shareholding requirement.
The below shows in relation to each Executive Director the total number of share options with and without performance conditions held at 31December 2014.
Options Options with without Exercised performance performance Vested but during the Individual measures measures unexercised year 3 Pierre Denis 3,676,548 Jonathan Sinclair 1,071,429 PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED There were no payments to past directors during the financial year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments for loss of office during the financial year.
TSR PERFORMANCE CHART The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 250 Index since Admission of the Company to 31 December 2014.
TheFTSE 250 index was selected on the basis that the Company is a member of the FTSE 250 in the UK.
VALUE OF 100 INVESTED AT ADMISSION 14 0 12 0 10 0 8 0 OC TOBER 2 014 NOV EMBER 2 014 DECEMBER 2 014 JIMM Y CHOO F TSE 2 5 0 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 71 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED HISTORICAL CEO PAY Given that the Company has only been publicly listed since 22 October 2014, the following sets out information regarding the CEOs historical pay since Admission.
CEO 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Single figure of remuneration n a n a n a n a 5,353 Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a 36% 1 Long-term incentive payout as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a 100% 1 The regulations require the value of long-term incentives granted to the Executive Directors to be included at the date of grant as they are subject to continued employment with the Company only.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION This section is not applicable as the Company only listed in October 2014 and as such there is no prior year comparator which can be shown.
REL ATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table illustrates total remuneration for all employees in the Group compared to distributions to shareholders and any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay since Admission of the Company to 31 December 2014.
As the Company only listed in October 2014, there is no comparative information for the prior year.
The following is based on the period following Admission of the Company to 31 December 2014.
2014 m Shareholder distributions dividends and share buybacks Total employee expenditure 10.8 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Subject to the Boards approval, Executive Directors are able to accept a limited number of external appointments outside the Company and can retain any fees paid for these services.
Details of such external appointments held between Admission and 31 December 2014 are set out below: Individual Roles and organisation Fees Pierre Denis 1 Jonathan Sinclair LLX Global Business Services SA Nottingham Scientific Limited 3,000 per annum pro rata 1 A subsidiary of JAB Luxury that provides various services to JimmyChoo.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Given that JimmyChoo PLC only listed as a public company on 22 October 2014, the figures shown represent the remuneration received over the period 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 and therefore do not include a prior year comparison figure.
Board Committee Senior Chairmanship Independent Basic fee fee Director fee Total Peter Harf 30 30 Bart Becht 10 3 13 Gianluca Brozzetti 10 10 Fabio Fusco 10 10 Olivier Goudet 10 10 David Poulter 10 1 11 Bob Singer 10 10 Judith Sprieser 10 3 13 Fees are paid in cash.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 72 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The following table shows the shareholding of each of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2014.
Shares acquired by the Director Total number of Total number of during the period shares owned as at shares owned at 31 December 2014 22 October 2014 31 December 2014 and 18 March 2015 Peter Harf 928,571 928,571 Bart Becht 928,571 928,571 Gianluca Brozzetti Fabio Fusco 107,143 107,143 Olivier Goudet 928,571 928,571 David Poulter 142,857 142,857 Bob Singer 285,714 285,714 Judith Sprieser 35,714 35,714 THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE As of 31 December 2014, the Committee comprised of three Non-Executive Directors: Bart Becht Chairman Peter Harf Gianluca Brozzetti The Committee determines and recommends to the Board the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determines the level of remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman and other senior executives and prepares the annual remuneration report for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
The Committee also assists the Board in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board.
It is also responsible for reviewing succession plans for the Directors, including the Chairman, the CEO and other senior executives.
The Committee did not hold any scheduled meetings in the period following Admission of the Company to 31 December 2014.
The Committee did however hold one scheduled meeting between the 31 December 2014 and the publication of this report.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Deloitte isamember of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
Total fees received by Deloitte in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during 2014 amounted to 34,350 excluding VAT based on the required time commitment.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The Company has yet to hold a shareholder vote on the Remuneration Report.
On behalf of the Board, BART BECHT CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE 18 March 2015 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 73
