94 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued They maintain a regular dialogue with Annual General Meetings Remuneration institutional shareholders on performance, The board has established a remuneration The AGM is an important part of effective plans and objectives through a programme committee, the MDRC.
The membership communication with shareholders.
Our of one to one and group meetings and and terms of reference of the MDRC are AGM takes place in London.
Notice of the ensure that shareholder views are summarised on page 115 of the meeting and any related papers are sent communicated to the board.
Our Investor Remuneration Report, which describes to shareholders at least 20 working days Relations Department acts as a focal point the work of the MDRC in discharging before the meeting and are published on our for contact with investors throughout the its responsibilities.
The circular sent to shareholders year.
with the notice aims to set out a balanced The Chairman is available to meet and clear explanation of each proposed Relations with Shareholders with institutional investors to hear their resolution.
views and discuss any issues or concerns, Dialogue with Our Shareholders All directors, including the chairmen including on governance and strategy.
Our board welcomes the opportunity to of our board committees, who are able to The Senior Independent Director and the openly engage with shareholders as it attend our AGMs do so.
In 2013 the entire other non-executive directors are similarly recognises the importance of a continuing board attended the AGM.
Our Chief available if requested, however, no such effective dialogue, whether with major Executive welcomes the opportunity for meetings were held or requested during institutional investors, private or employee face to face communication with our the year.
The board takes responsibility shareholders and makes a business Overall, the board believes that for ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
Shareholders are appropriate steps have been taken during encouraged to participate and all directors the year to ensure that the members of the Reporting of Results, Interim in attendance are available to answer board, and in particular the non-executive Management Statements and questions, formally through the Chairman directors, develop an understanding of the the Investor Day during the meeting and informally afterwards.
These have At the AGM we propose separate We report formally to our shareholders when included, for example, analysts and resolutions on each substantially separate we publish our full year results in June and brokers briefings, consideration by the issue.
For each resolution, shareholders our half year results in November.
These board of monthly brokers reports and of have the option to direct their proxy to vote results are posted on our website.
When we feedback from shareholder meetings on a either for or against the resolution or to publish the results, our executive directors six-monthly basis.
Major shareholders views withhold their vote.
The proxy form and the give presentations on the half year and full are canvassed for the board in a detailed announcement of the results of a vote make year results in face to face meetings with investor survey which is usually conducted it clear that a vote withheld is not legally a institutional investors, analysts and the every two years by external consultants.
vote and is not counted in the calculation of media in London.
Live webcasts of these The last such survey was undertaken in the proportion of the votes cast.
All valid results presentations are available on our September 2013 by Smiths Corporate proxy appointments received are recorded website.
Our first quarter and third quarter Advisory.
The purpose of these surveys is and counted.
Interim Management Statements issued to obtain the views and opinions of a broad All resolutions at the AGM are decided respectively in July and in late January range of shareholders and non-shareholders.
on a poll as required by the companys early February each year are also posted The MDRC undertakes detailed Articles of Association rather than on a on our website.
collective consultation exercises with a show of hands and poll voting is carried out In addition, we hold an annual Investor selection of major institutional shareholders by electronic means.
Day for our institutional investors and and institutional investor bodies as part of its The results of the poll are announced analysts.
At the 2014 Investor Day, held in comprehensive review of executive director to the market as soon as possible and London in January, we gave presentations and senior management remuneration posted on our website.
The announcement on our Process Technologies Division.
These arrangements within the group.
As shows votes for and against as well as highlighted the opportunities for Process described in the Remuneration Report, votes withheld.
Technologies, including in the chemicals and a consultation was undertaken during the Our AGM will be held on 23rd July 2014. oil and gas markets, in China and focused year in respect of the triennial review of The notice of the meeting, together with an on how the division adds value through remuneration then being undertaken.
explanation of the resolutions to be technology.
A live webcast of the Investor Day The board believes that these considered at the meeting, is set out in a presentation and a copy of the presentation methods, taken together, are a practical separate circular to shareholders.
This are available on the Investor Relations and efficient way for all our directors to circular is published on the Investor Presentations section of our website.
keep in touch with shareholder opinion Relations Shareholder Centre Annual and views and to reach a balanced General Meeting section of our website.
Contact with Our Shareholders understanding of major shareholders objectives, issues and concerns.
Our Chairman takes overall responsibility for While the board recognises that the ensuring that the views of our shareholders company is primarily accountable to its are communicated to the board and that shareholders, it also recognises the our directors are made aware of major contribution made by other providers of shareholders issues and concerns.
capital and confirms its interest in listening However, contact with major shareholders to their views, where relevant, to the is principally maintained by the Chief companys overall approach to governance.
Executive and the Group Finance Director.
