STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT ON REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REPORT During 2014, the Group underwent and completed a major restructuring.
This resulted in the disposal of a number of mature assets inthe Zhezkazgan and Central Regions of Kazakhstan, which was subject to both regulatory and shareholder approval, and now positions the Group as a high growth copper company focused on large scale, low cost, open-pit mining in Kazakhstan and able to achieve sustainable positive Free Cash Flow.
This was a key step in achieving the Groups primary strategic objectives of optimising its assets and delivering its major growth projects.
The Committee believes that achievement against these objectives will deliver strong long-term financial performance and shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
Therefore, in determining the levels of executive reward, the Committee continues to place emphasis on ensuring a strong and demonstrable link between actual remuneration received, and the achievement of KAZ Minerals strategic and business objectives.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG, Although the Committee recognises the pivotal role the Chief Chair of the Remuneration Committee Executive had to play in the delivery of this strategic objective, as a reflection of the reduced size and scale of the Group, his incentive opportunity has been reduced.
Remuneration structure Dear fellow shareholder, In order to provide a straightforward and transparent remuneration On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the 2014 structure, the remuneration of executive Directors is made up of Directors Remuneration Report which sets out details of the base salary, plus some benefits-in-kind, and, subject to stretching remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors, performance conditions, cash awarded under an annual bonus plan describes how the remuneration policy is implemented and discloses and shares awarded under a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
the amounts paid relating to the year ended 31 December 2014.
Incentive pay is subject to clawback provisions.
For executive This report includes an Annual Report on Remuneration pages 92 Directors, other than the Chief Executive who is a major to 100 which describes how the remuneration policy was implemented shareholder in the Company, part of any annual bonus payment for the year ended 31 December 2014 and how we intend to is required to be invested in the Companys shares and held for apply the policy for 2015.
The annual report together with this a period of time.
We operate a post-vesting holding period for annual statement will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at LTIP shares and significant share ownership guidelines apply.
These the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
features enhance the alignment of interest between executive To maximise clarity and transparency, for reference, we have also Directors and shareholders and contribute to an appropriate republished our remuneration Policy Report in an abridged form level of risk mitigation.
Our remuneration policy received binding Remuneration for 2015 shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In light of the Restructuring, during 2014 the Committee reviewed The Committee is satisfied that the policy remains appropriate overall levels of pay and incentive opportunity to ensure they and fit for purpose and intends that it will cover a three year remain appropriate given the reduction in size and scale of the period to the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The key points in relation to how we are implementing Objectives of the Committee our policy for 2015 are as follows: The Committees objective is to design a remuneration framework salaries will not be increased from 2014 levels.
which promotes the long-term success of the Company and focuses executives on delivery of the Groups strategic and the Chief Executive will continue not to receive any business objectives, while relating reward to performance in the pension provision.
context of appropriate risk and safety management, and aligning maximum bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive was the interests of executive Directors and senior managers with reduced from 200% to 150% of salary from 1 January 2014. those of shareholders to build a sustainable performance culture.
LTIP award levels for the Chief Executive will be reduced from 200% to 150% of salary.
34 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT For more information, see pages 88 Remuneration Report Changes to the Board shareholders on the implementation of our remuneration policy, Following completion of the Restructuring on 31 October 2014, for example on the issue of incentive opportunity.
The Committee Eduard Ogay, executive Director, stepped down from the Board considered this feedback, along with other feedback received and left the Group.
Eduard Ogay did not receive any payments for during the year, as part of the annual review of the implementation loss of office and his outstanding LTIP awards were time pro-rated of our remuneration policy.
based on the period of time from their respective date of award As set out above, the Annual Report on Remuneration and tohis date of leaving the Group and, subject to the satisfaction of this annual statement will be subject to an advisory vote at the their respective performance conditions, will vest on their normal forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and I have no hesitation in date of vesting.
The members of the Committee Andrew Southam, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed to the will be happy to answer any questions on remuneration matters at Board as an executive Director on 1 November 2014.
Upon the Annual General Meeting and are available at any other time to appointment to the Board his salary was not increased and his discuss feedback on the remuneration policy and its implementation.
incentive opportunity will remain the same as that he received prior to his appointment.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2014 performance and reward The Group underwent a transformational change this year following completion of the Restructuring, which leaves KAZ Minerals as a more cash generative and leaner business well positioned to deliver substantial production growth.
Despite the EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR challenging market conditions, the executive management team REMUNERATION STRUCTURE were able to deliver solid operational performance for the continuing operations with copper cathode production in line Summary of remuneration structure with external guidance.
Financial performance was affected by lower commodity prices, but EBITDA excluding special items Fixed remuneration for the continuing operations was broadly in line with budget as Base salary cost savings offset the fall in revenues.
The cash costs of the Group had been significantly reduced as a result of the divestment of the higher cost Disposal Assets, and cash costs for the continuing Benefits operations were lower than forecast as management were successful in mitigating inflationary pressures and due to strong zinc by-product credits.
Bozshakol is on track for commencement of commissioning in the fourth quarter of 2015.
A change in contractor strategy was initiated at Aktogay with an additional Variable remuneration contractor appointed during the year leading to an increase in the overall budget cost for the project of around $300 million.
Short term Annual Although there was a huge and continuing effort on safety, with Annual bonus plan linked to Group performance a reduction in fatalities for a fifth consecutive year, the safety performance remains far from what it needs to be, so the Committee has therefore scaled back resulting bonuses.
Benefits Five years Long Term Incentive Plan linked to relative TSR performance It is expected that the 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan awards, against comparator group, combined with a five year measuring performance from 1 January 2012 to 31 December retention period 2014 and 1 June 2012 to 31 May 2015 combined 41 month performance period will lapse on 1 June 2015 on failing to achieve the required total shareholder return target.
Shareholder engagement The Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue Total remuneration with shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
During the year we received feedback from a number of institutional www.
com 35 Bozshakol Bozshakol is a large scale, low cost, open-pit copper mining project currently in the final stages of construction, scheduled to commence commissioning in Q4 2015.
The mine has 4.2 MT of contained copper at a grade of 0.36% and will produce 100 kt of copper per annum in the first 10 years of operations.
For more information about our major growth projects, go to www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT 38 Operating Review 46 Financial Review 58 Principal Risks 64 Corporate Responsibility
