Strategic Report Governance Accounts Directors Remuneration Report During the year the Committee conducted a comprehensive review of executive remuneration arrangements to ensure they are aligned to long-term shareholder value creation.
Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee To download the Remuneration Report go to http: annualreport.
html 2013 14 Remuneration Review Annual Statement from the Chairman During the year, the Committee conducted a thorough and of the Remuneration Committee comprehensive review of the Groups executive remuneration arrangements.
The focus of this review was to ensure that the Dear Shareholder overall executive remuneration structure supports the Creating I am pleased to present the 2013 14 Directors Remuneration the Leader strategy and is aligned to long-term shareholder Report on behalf of the Board.
The review also considered the structure of a new long-term incentive plan to replace the Kingfisher Incentive As required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Share Scheme and the Performance Share Plan.
The rules of Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations the new plan will be submitted to shareholders for approval at 2013, the rest of this remuneration report is split into two sections: the AGM in 2014.
The directors remuneration policy which sets out the Our major shareholders were consulted as part of this review Companys proposed policy on directors remuneration for to ensure that we took on board their views on the proposed the three years from the 2014 Annual General Meeting the changes to our remuneration structure.
The Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at this years AGM Following this thorough review, the Committee is satisfied and thereafter at least every three years.
that the Groups executive remuneration arrangements create a strong link between competitive pay and performance.
The The annual report on remuneration sets out the payments Committee agreed to propose a number of changes to the made to directors and details the link between Group Groups executive remuneration policy to strengthen alignment performance and remuneration for the 2013 14 financial with long-term sustainable performance by increasing deferral, year the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Annual extending malus provisions and raising shareholding Remuneration Report together with this letter will be requirements.
The specific changes are: subject to an advisory shareholder vote at this years AGM.
Annual bonus deferral for executive directors to be increased Changes to the layout of the Directors Remuneration Report to 50% from 33% : are intended to improve transparency and demonstrate how the remuneration arrangements are aligned with the Groups strategy.
Reverting to annual grants under the proposed new long-term incentive plan, at the level of 200% of salary, with Outcome 2013 14 the flexibility in future to award up to 250% for the Group 2013 14 proved to be another challenging year for retailers but Chief Executive, subject to stretching performance targets: although the economic environment was difficult, Kingfisher made solid progress, with profit increased and like-for-like sales Increased shareholding requirements to 300% of salary growth delivered.
Further information regarding the Groups for the Group Chief Executive and 200% of salary for other performance during the year can be found in the Strategic executive directors: and Report on pages 1 to 31.
This results in bonus payments being Extension of malus provisions to include instances of awarded for performance between threshold and on-target reputational damage linked to executive actions.
As a result, bonuses in respect of performance were between 24% and 36% of maximum which were similar to the The full proposed Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 49 to 58. previous year.
At our 2013 AGM, 98% of shareholders voted in favour of our The 2011 Performance Share Plan vesting percentage is Directors Remuneration Report.
I very much hope you will determined by the 2013 14 EPS result and the 2011 12 to support the Remuneration Policy and 2013 14 Annual 2013 14 cumulative KEP result.
EPS was below the required Remuneration Report at our forthcoming meeting.
I will be threshold but KEP was within the target range, resulting in an available at the AGM in June to answer any questions about overall award of 31% of maximum.
The awards will vest in the work of the Committee.
two equal tranches in June 2014 and June 2015.
Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 March 2014 www.
com 47 47 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The key principles of our At a Glance Remuneration Policy are to: In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage to provide executive directors with a our strategic objectives, and we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes remuneration package that recognises for 2013 14.
More detail can be found in the Remuneration Policy and Annual the experience of the individual Remuneration Report.
concerned and the value created: How has the structure changed year-on-year?
ensure performance-related remuneration constitutes a Proposed changes to Remuneration Policy substantial proportion of the Performance metrics Component used, weighting and time remuneration package: value Operation of the component Maximum potential period applicable ensure executive directors interests Base salary no difference no difference n a are aligned with shareholders by Benefits no difference no difference n a delivering rewards in shares, and requiring a significant personal holding Annual bonus 33% of 2013 14 annual no difference, maximum In 2013 14 the annual bonus will be deferred opportunity remains at 200% bonus was based on the in Kingfisher shares in accordance for three years.
following metrics: with the Groups ownership policy: 50% of the 2014 15 annual Profit 30% be competitive in the talent markets bonus will be deferred for Relative LFL sales 30% in which the Group operates: three years under the Sourcing & new plan.
Productivity 20% be fair, transparent and straightforward Personal to understand: and performance 20% ensure remuneration principles apply LTIP Following the one-off award No awards were made in No award was made consistently throughout the Group, of 500% of base salary made 2013 14.
In future awards will in 2013 14 in 2011 under the PSP, no be granted on an annual basis and where practical are translated awards were made in 2012 at a maximum of 200% of base into local practice at the appropriate or 2013.
Annual awards will salary with flexibility to award up organisational level.
to 250% of salary for the Group Chief Executive.
How have we performed against our performance objectives?
Outcomes achieved as a % of Maximum Sir Ian Kevin Philippe Performance Measure Target Actual Cheshire OByrne Tible Karen Witts Profit before tax 765m 744m 0% 0% Retail operating profit 5% 0% Like for like sales 3.3% 0.7% 15% 15% Divisional like for like sales 10% 15% Sourcing and productivity 58% 71% 17% 58% Personal objectives 80% 85% 78% 85% Totals 32% 36% 24% 33% Bonus receivable 000 532.7 453.9 239.4 319.8 Threshold Maximum % of 15 % 100% maximum Performance Measure vesting vesting Actual achieved.
Earnings per share EPS 25.8p 31.2p 23.4p 0% Kingfisher Economic Profit KEP 229m 386m 288.4m 62.2% Total 31.1% Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors 2013 14 Taxable Salary benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 Ian Cheshire 832.3 30.6 532.7 1,909.5 260.4 3,565.5 Kevin OByrne 627.0 24.3 453.9 1,404.0 123.1 2,632.3 Philippe Tible 509.3 11.7 297.6 1,072.5 320.0 2,211.1 Karen Witts 484.5 26.3 319.8 607.2 103.1 1,540.9 Total 2,453.1 92.9 1,604.0 4,993.2 806.6 9,949.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 48 48 Strategic Report Governance Accounts The key principles of the Remuneration Policy are to: Remuneration Policy provide executive directors with a remuneration package The Remuneration Policy set out in this section is intended to that recognises the experience of the individual concerned apply for three years from the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to and the value created: shareholder approval.
Where the forward-looking policy differs ensure that performance-related remuneration constitutes from the policy that was in operation in 2013 14, we have a substantial proportion of the remuneration package: provided explanations of these differences.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee will review the Remuneration Policy ensure that executive directors interests are aligned with on an annual basis to ensure that it remains aligned to the shareholders by delivering rewards in shares and requiring Creating the Leader strategy and is appropriately positioned a significant personal holding in Kingfisher shares in relative to the market.
There is no current intention to revise the accordance with the Groups share ownership policy: policy more frequently than every three years.
Where a material be competitive in the talent markets in which the change to policy is considered, the Group will consult with its Group operates: major shareholders prior to submitting the revised policy to all shareholders for approval.
be fair, transparent and straightforward to understand: and ensure remuneration principles apply consistently throughout The Remuneration Policy will be displayed on the Groups website www.
com immediately after the 2014 AGM.
the Group, and where practical are translated into local practice at the appropriate organisational level.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, retain and The Committee is satisfied that this Remuneration Policy strikes motivate executives of the highest quality, incentivising them an appropriate balance between the fixed and variable elements to deliver exceptional business performance aligned with the of remuneration, and between promoting short and long-term interests of shareholders, and to deliver the Groups Creating the business objectives.
The Remuneration Policy continues to ensure that a significant element of executive directors remuneration remains at risk.
Future Remuneration Policy Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Base salary Base salary reflects the Base salaries are set with reference to two primary Whilst there is no prescribed or Individual performance is an comparator groups: i FTSE 25-75 excluding formulaic maximum, the annual important factor considered by the individuals role, experience financial services organisations, and ii FTSE100 increase will normally not exceed Committee when reviewing base and contribution to the retailers and privately held retailers which are the level awarded to the general salary each year.
Group and is set at levels considered to be of a similar size and market workforce.
Higher increases may that support the recruitment capitalisation to the Group.
The Committee also be made where there have takes account of pay levels in other large European been significant changes in the and retention of executive retailers.
Alternative peer groups may need to be responsibility and accountability directors of the calibre referenced depending on the domicile of in a role, or where there are large required by the Group.
individual executive directors outside the UK.
variances to the market, for example in the case of a recently The Committee does not apply a strict appointed executive director mathematical approach to the market data, appointed on a salary below the which it considers to be only one relevant input.
Any significant Instead, the Committee has regard to its overall increases will be fully explained.
assessment of appropriate levels of salary, within the benchmark range taking into account the market, economic conditions, affordability, the level of increases awarded to employees generally and the individuals performance, contribution and experience.
Salaries are reviewed, but not necessarily adjusted, annually.
Out of cycle reviews may be conducted in exceptional circumstances if determined appropriate by the Committee.
Base salaries are paid monthly in cash.
com 49 49 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Future remuneration policy continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Benefits Benefits are provided to The Group may provide pension contributions Maximum levels of benefit None set out below, a company car or cash alternative, provision are: assist executive directors allowance for financial planning, medical in the performance of their Car allowance 25,000 per annum insurance, and life assurance cover.
Other benefits roles and are designed Private medical insurance may be provided from time to time if considered on a family basis to be competitive and reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, Life assurance cover of 4x to include items such as relocation allowances, cost effective.
base salary and will be explained in the next Annual Financial planning at Remuneration Report.
2,500 per annum The Group pays the cost of providing benefits on a monthly basis or as required for one-off events There are a number of variables such as financial planning advice.
and unknowns impacting the maximum payable in the event of Store discount may be offered to all directors relocation: however, the Committee on the same basis as offered to other would pay no more than is necessary Group employees.
Store discount of up to 20% is offered.
By exception, death in service cover for Kevin OByrne is provided at 7x base salary.
The additional 3x cover is funded by him through an equivalent 0.25% reduction in his pension cash allowance.
All-employee share plans To enable investment in UK-based executive directors may participate in The maximum monthly limit for None a tax approved all-employee scheme Sharesave the Sharesave plan is currently shares in Kingfisher on the under which they make monthly savings over a 250 per month.
same terms as other UKperiod of three or five years, that may be used to The maximum monthly amount an based employees.
buy Kingfisher shares at a discounted price when individual may invest in partnership the scheme matures.
They may also choose to shares is currently 125 per month.
withdraw their savings at the end of the savings The SIP also allows the award of free period or at any time during the savings contract.
and matching shares up to the limits UK-based executive directors may also participate set by the Government.
in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Designed to The Group may increase the amounts promote employee share ownership, the SIP that can be saved or invested under enables participants to make monthly investments the Sharesave and SIP plans in line in Kingfisher shares.
with any increases authorised by the UK Government for approved plans.
Pension To provide retirement Pension provision for executive directors with For the defined contribution scheme None the exception of Philippe Tible is by way of or cash allowance, the maximum benefits and support contributions to a defined contribution scheme.
annual pension contribution is 30% retirement planning in a A cash allowance is available to those who choose of base salary for the Group Chief tax efficient way through not to participate in the defined contribution Executive and 20% of base salary for a competitive scheme.
scheme as a result of having applied for protection other UK-based executive directors.
upon exceeding or getting close to Lifetime For the defined benefit arrangement Allowance limits.
For executive directors who in which the divisional CEO of choose to remain in the scheme, to avoid total Castorama and Brico Dpt, Philippe member and employer contributions exceeding Tible participates, the pension the Annual Allowance 40,000 for the tax year notionally accrues at a value of 1.5% 2014 15, employer contributions can be paid as a of final pensionable pay for each year taxable cash allowance on a cost neutral basis to of service, with crystallisation of the the Company.
pension being conditional upon him A French non-contributory defined benefit retiring from the Company.
arrangement is in operation for Philippe Tible as divisional CEO of Castorama and Brico Dpt.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 50 50 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Annual bonus To incentivise executive Annual bonuses are paid after the end of the The on-target and maximum The specific measures, targets and financial year to which they relate.
annual bonus payable are weighting may vary from year to year in directors to achieve or 100% and 200% of base order to align with the Groups strategy, exceed annual financial, 50% of the annual bonus is paid in cash shortly salary respectively.
but always with a substantial proportion after the financial year end.
The remaining 50% strategic and personal based on key financial metrics.
For the of the annual bonus is deferred for three years in The level of payment at threshold objectives set by the 2014 15 financial year, 60% of the Kingfisher shares.
Vesting of these shares is not is set on an annual basis but will annual bonus is linked to key financial Committee at the start of subject to performance conditions and no match not exceed 25%.
metrics, 20% is related to KPIs for which each financial year.
Shares delivered on the exercise of an there is a particular focus during the year deferred element of the award attract additional dividend shares calculated in question: examples would include on the basis of the re-investment back into shares annual bonus is intended Group sourcing and productivity.
20% of the dividend that would have been received to support longer-term is for personal performance based on had the shares been beneficially held.
achievement of personal objectives and shareholder alignment The Committee has the discretion to adjust the contribution to the One Team strategy, and retention.
bonus outcome if the pure application of a formula including behaviours.
is not felt to produce an appropriate result in light Where executive directors have specific of overall underlying performance.
In particular the management accountability for the Committee has the discretion to adjust payments results of one or more Operating downwards if profits have fallen.
Any adjustment Companies they may, in addition to, or made using this discretion will be explained.
as a substitute for Group targets, also Malus may be applied whereby part or all of an have targets related to the performance unvested deferred bonus award may be reduced of those businesses.
including, if appropriate, reduction to zero in the The actual performance targets set are event of financial misstatement, serious not disclosed at the start of the financial reputational damage, or material misconduct in year, as they are considered to be individual cases.
Deferred bonus awards will vest in full in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Long-term incentive plan To incentivise executive Awards will be granted annually under the The maximum annual award is Awards vest based on performance Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan, subject to 200% for executive directors, with over three years against performance directors to achieve a three-year vesting period and stretching the flexibility to award up to 250% measures chosen by the Committee superior returns for performance conditions.
for the Group Chief Executive.
The to align with business and strategic shareholders and drive Group Chief Executives award in priorities.
For the 2014 5 financial year Shares delivered on the exercise of an award shareholder alignment and 2014 5 will be 200%.
the measures for executive directors are: attract additional dividend shares calculated on retention of executives over the basis of the re-investment back into shares of 25% of the award vests for 50% EPS the performance period the dividend that would have been received had threshold performance.
50% Kingfisher Economic Profit KEP the shares been beneficially held.
The Committee may adjust the The Committee has the discretion to adjust the Performance conditions performance measures attaching to LTIP outcome if the pure application of a formula awards and the weighting of these are aligned with is not felt to produce an appropriate result in measures if it feels this will create shareholder interests light of overall underlying performance.
greater alignment with business and and the Groups Malus may be applied whereby part or all of an strategic priorities.
unvested long-term incentive award may be A significant change to the measures reduced including, if appropriate, reduction used would only be adopted following to zero in the event of financial misstatement, consultation with major shareholders.
serious reputational damage, or material misconduct in individual cases.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, awards will vest subject to assessment of performance up to the date of change of control and will be reduced on a time pro-rated basis unless the Committee considers that such a reduction is inappropriate.
com 51 51 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Future remuneration policy continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Profit sharing arrangements Participation Scheme Philippe Tible participates in this scheme as an Under the Participation Scheme The award level is determined employee of a French company on the same the maximum opportunity is set by as a proportion of profits as set with To enable French terms as all French employees.
There are reference to the minimum required employees to share in the two limits set which are based on a by the French government and a The Participation scheme is a mandatory scheme financial success of the multiple of the Annual Social more favourable formula that based on a legal requirement for a proportion of French businesses Security ceiling PASS.
This is has been agreed with the French the Castorama and Brico Dpt France profits updated each year but for 2014 Works Council.
to be distributed to employees.
It is paid in cash stands at 37,548. shortly after the financial year end, although the Over the last five years the award scheme provides the option to defer the payment These limits are: level as a % of salary up to the salary for a period of five years to receive certain cap has remained within the 5% The maximum salary that the taxation exemptions.
On Philippe Tibles actual award level as a % of salary is salary the award levels have been less applied to is 4x PASS 150,192 than 2% of salary.
The maximum possible payment is 0.75x PASS 28,161 Interessement Scheme Philippe Tible participates in this scheme as an Since the design is in the form of The profit pool is based on a formula employee of a French company on the same a profit pool, there is no set cap as which is linked to a proportion of To enable French employees terms as all French employees.
However, the award level for the sales and profit growth.
to share in the financial Philippe Tible has not exceeded This scheme creates a profit pool which is divided success of growth in the 20% of salary historically.
by the cost of wages and salaries to determine French businesses an award level as a % of salary.
Payments are made in cash on a quarterly basis although the scheme provides the option to defer the payment for a period of five years to receive certain taxation exceptions.
Shareholding requirements To ensure alignment of Executive directors are required to build a Group Chief Executive: None significant shareholding in the Company before shareholding of 300% of interests of executive the fifth anniversary of the date of their first award base salary.
directors and shareholders under a qualifying share plan.
Consideration will Other executive directors: over the long-term.
be given to extending the five-year time frame in shareholding of 200% of the event that share awards vesting from deferred base salary.
bonus shares or the LTIP alone do not provide enough shares to meet the shareholding requirement.
Unvested deferred bonus awards are not included in the assessment of the holding requirement until the transfer of beneficial ownership to the executive director at the end of the three-year deferral period.
Nil-cost options which have vested but the executive has yet to exercise are considered to count towards the shareholding.
Legacy Awards Performance Share A one-off exceptional award of 500% of base 500% of base salary for all Awards are subject to stretching salary was granted under the PSP in 2011. executive directors.
performance targets, 50% based Plan PSP This award was granted to create focus on a on EPS and 50% on KEP.
single three-year period of the Creating the Following completion of the financial Leader strategy.
The awards vest in two equal year, the vesting percentage has tranches in June 2014 and June 2015. been determined by the Committee On exercise, additional dividend shares are at 31% of the maximum award level, added to the award, with a value equivalent to subject to continued employment.
the value of dividends reinvested into shares from the date of grant to the date of transfer.
Malus may be applied to unvested awards, if the Committee determines that the grant of awards was not justified.
Certain awards granted prior to 2011 have vested but have not been exercised and therefore remain outstanding.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 52 52 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Kingfisher Incentive Under the KISS, executive directors defer 33% of their 33% of the Annual Bonus at the None Annual Bonus into Kingfisher shares.
Awards are deferred time of award, plus additional Share Scheme KISS for three years and are subject to forfeiture should the dividend shares accrued from the executive leave the Group before the vesting date.
Malus date of grant to the date of transfer.
may be applied to unvested awards, if the Committee determines that the grant of awards was not justified.
On exercise, additional dividend shares are added to the award, with a value equivalent to the value of dividends reinvested into shares from the date of grant to the date of transfer.
Awards were granted annually under the KISS and will be granted in 2014 in respect of the 2013 14 annual bonus.
Awards will vest in full in the event of a change of control of the Company.
An HMRC approved share option plan was used to grant Up to 30,000 None Company Share Option awards with a value up to a limit of 30,000.
The option Plan CSOP price was determined at the time of grant by reference to the market price immediately before the date of grant.
The options are linked to an underpinning KISS Award and the two awards must be exercised simultaneously.
On exercise, the proceeds of the underpinning KISS Award are used to fund the exercise price of the CSOP Award.
Chairman and nonexecutive director fees To attract and retain a The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by Aggregate annual fees paid to None the Committee, while the fees of the non-executive the Chairman and non-executive Chairman and non-executive directors are determined by the Board with affected directors are limited by the directors of the calibre persons absenting themselves from the discussions Companys Articles of Association, required by the Group.
which may be varied by special resolution of the shareholders.
The The Committee reviews the Chairmans fees annually.
current limit contained within the The Chairmans fees are determined with reference to Articles of Association is 1 million time commitment and relevant benchmark market data.
and it is proposed that this be increased to 1.75 million at the Contributions may be made towards the cost of running AGM in 2014, to allow sufficient the Chairmans office.
The Board determines non-executive directors fees under Contributions towards the cost of a policy which seeks to recognise the time commitment, running the Chairmans office will responsibility and technical skills required to make a not exceed 60,000 per annum valuable contribution to an effective Board.
and are included within the A base fee is paid to all non-executive directors aggregate fees set out above.
and additional fees are also paid to the Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board annually reviews fees paid to non-executive directors against those in similar companies and taking into account the time commitment expected of them.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys performance-related pay programmes and do not receive pension benefits.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits with the exception of store discount of up to 20%.
com 53 53 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Future remuneration policy continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Assessment of performance Approach to recruitment When hiring a new executive director, or making internal Normal Awards None promotions to the Board, the Committee will in principle The normal maximum incentive remuneration apply the same policy as for existing executive directors, opportunity on recruitment will be as detailed in the Remuneration Policy.
The rationale for in line with the Remuneration the package offered will be explained in the next Annual Policy for executive directors.
Additional LTIP Award Base salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit Under the plan rules, the the best candidate based on their skills, experience and Committee may, on the current remuneration.
recruitment of an executive director, make an additional oneBenefits would be in line with normal policy and may off performance linked award include, where appropriate, relocation benefits or other under the long-term incentive plan benefits reflective of normal market practice in the of up to an equal face value to the territory in which the executive director is employed.
normal policy award i. e. up to Normal incentive awards would be made under the 250% of base salary for the Group annual bonus plan and long-term incentive plan in Chief Executive and 200% of base line with the Remuneration Policy.
salary for the other executive directors.
This provision is For internal promotions any commitments made prior normally used to pro-rate incoming to appointment may continue to be honoured as the executives into recently awarded executive is transitioned to the new remuneration long-term incentive plan cycles.
Buy-out Award The Committee would be mindful of best practice The Committee normally seeks to guidelines in considering whether any enhanced LTIP or avoid explicitly buying out awards other award was necessary on recruitment in order to forgone at a previous employer, secure the preferred candidate e. g. to buy out awards preferring instead to make longforgone from the incoming executives previous employer.
term incentive plan awards as set The Committees policy is to seek to avoid buying out out above.
Normally the Committee would seek only to make performance-related awards under the long-term Where, in exceptional incentive plan, for example by pro-rating them into circumstances, buy-out awards are recently awarded plan cycles to ensure alignment with made, they are not subject to a existing executive directors.
However, each case will formal maximum, although would need to be considered on its own facts at the particular be designed to reflect only time such awards are made.
If a buy-out award would the value forgone or less.
In be required, the Committee would aim to reflect the establishing the appropriate value nature, timing and value of an award forgone in any of any buy-out the Committee replacement award which may be in the form of a would also take into account the restricted stock or performance-related award as value of any additional long-term appropriate.
The Committee would aim to minimise incentive plan award made the cost to the Company.
The Committee will operate the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan which will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in June 2014 and the Groups legacy plans the Performance Share Plan, Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme and Company Share Option Plan together the Plans in accordance with the rules of those Plans and where relevant with the UKLA Listing Rules.
In addition to the discretions set out as part of this Remuneration Policy, the rules provide the Committee with discretion in certain matters regarding the administration and operation of these Plans, including, but not limited to the following: the impact of a change of control or restructuring: any adjustments to performance conditions or awards required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue : the operation of malus provisions: and minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of operation of the plans or to comply with local tax law or regulation.
The Committee retains certain discretions in relation to the Annual Bonus Plan, which include but are not limited to: the determination of and timing of any bonus payment: the impact of a change of control or restructuring: any adjustments required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue In relation to the Plans and the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee retains the ability to amend the performance conditions and or measures in respect of any award or payment if one or more event s have occurred which would lead the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that such an amendment would not be materially less difficult to meet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 54 54 Strategic Report Governance Accounts If the Committee used any of the discretions set out above these would, where relevant, be disclosed in the next Annual Remuneration Report and the views of major shareholders may also be sought.
Discretion in relation to the Groups All-Employee Share Plans Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan would be exercised within the parameters of the HMRC and the UKLA Listing Rules.
Notes to the future remuneration policy table Annual bonus The performance conditions are set annually based on the metrics the Committee feels are most appropriate for the business.
Like-for-like sales is a key metric in the Creating the Leader strategy, and Profit Before Tax ensures that this sales growth is delivered in a way that creates value for shareholders.
Other strategic KPIs are chosen to support particular objectives for the year, and the individual component enables outstanding contributions to be incentivised and rewarded.
Annual bonus targets are set with reference to internal budgets and analyst consensus forecasts, with maximum pay-out requiring performance well ahead of budget.
Long-term incentive plan The Committee believes that long-term incentive plan measures should be aligned to shareholder value while providing line of sight to management, so that they are meaningful and incentivising.
EPS growth is a key measure of our success in growing value for shareholders over time, while KEP balances profit growth with efficient use of our balance sheet.
The setting of LTIP targets takes into account analyst consensus forecasts, internal projections, and the levels of performance required over the long-term to deliver absolute value appreciation for shareholders.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits and may also receive bonus, pension, profit share and share awards which vary according to local jurisdiction and market practice.
The maximum provision and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Provision Policy 12 months notice by either the director or the Company for Sir Ian Cheshire, Kevin OByrne and Karen Witts.
Three months Notice period notice for Philippe Tible.
As described in this report.
Remuneration Car allowance as an alternative to a company car and pension benefit.
Cash benefits The Company provides a range of additional benefits, including private medical insurance on a family basis, death in service Non-cash benefits cover equal to four times base salary, a subsidised staff canteen, a staff discount card, allowance for financial planning and 30 working days holiday per year.
Reimbursement of reasonably incurred costs in accordance with their duties.
Expenses During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
In respect of Philippe Tible, an amount equal to 50% of annual salary Non-compete and car benefit must be paid to him on a monthly basis if his employment is terminated by the Company.
This amount is standard under French law in order to ensure that the non-compete provision is enforceable.
In the case of resignation, no payments on departure will be made on termination, even if by mutual agreement the notice Contractual period is cut short.
If notice is served by the Company in full, no other payments should be due on departure.
For any period termination payment of notice period not served, the payment takes the form of liquidated damages, which pays the departing executive 8.3% of salary per month for the remainder of their notice period.
These monthly payments are subject to mitigation.
The maximum Executive directors payment post departure would be one times base salary.
If notice is served by either party, the executive director may continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period, during which time the executive director may continue their duties or be assigned a period of garden leave.
The Groups policy is that payments for termination will not exceed 12 months base salary.
The terms of the phased payment clauses in the service contracts of Sir Ian Cheshire and Kevin OByrne were consistent with the governance guidelines at the time the contracts were put in place.
In circumstances where the Company terminates their agreements, they will receive phased payments of 15% and 12% of base salary respectively for a maximum of 12 months from the date of termination subject to mitigation.
The termination clause in Philippe Tibles contract is determined by the collective convention which applies to all French employees.
A termination payment would be made up of two parts i the dismissal indemnity which is 3% of annual remuneration per year of service and ii a payment for any unpaid notice which would be a maximum of three months remuneration.
The current combination cost based on years of service to date is approximately one times base salary.
Remuneration for this purpose consists of base salary, car benefit and cash bonus award.
In the event of a settlement agreement, the Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
com 55 55 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office continued Provision Policy Non-executive directors are appointed under letters of engagement.
Appointments have historically been for an initial period of Contractual three years and invitations to act for subsequent three-year terms are subject to a review of performance, and taking into account Termination payment the need to progressively refresh the Board.
continued The appointment may be terminated by either party giving the other not less than three months prior written notice, unless Chairman and terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
non-executive directors If notice is served by either party, the executive director may receive bonus payments in cash on a pro-rated basis from the start of Leaver provisions for the financial year up to the date of termination of employment, based on the determination of the results at the year-end against annual bonus targets set.
In the event that an executive director ceases to be employed during or shortly after the financial year and before the date of the annual bonus award, the Committee has the discretion to make a bonus payment and determine the basis upon which it is made and its value taking into account the individual circumstances of the departure.
If the executive ceases employment as a result of a reason defined as a good leaver which includes ill-heath or retirement, then the normal approach would be to award a time pro-rated bonus in cash based on the actual results against the performance measures set once they have been determined following the end of the financial year.
In the case of resignation, no bonus award will be made.
The rules of the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan which will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in June 2014 and Leaver provisions for the Groups legacy plans the Performance Share Plan, Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme and Company Share Option Plan share incentives together the Plans set out the treatment that will be applied to awards and options if a participant leaves the Group before the end of the vesting period.
A summary of the treatment is set out below: Long-Term Incentive Awards granted under the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP from 2014 onwards and the Performance Share Plan PSP Awards will normally lapse upon cessation of employment with the exception of unvested awards granted under the KISP, which lapse on the date of notice of termination of employment, except in certain circumstances as described below.
In determining the extent to which awards should vest when an executive departs, the Committee will consider all the facts of the executives departure, including their performance and the extent to which the departure is at the instigation of the Company.
If an executive director ceases to be employed as a result of a reason defined as a good leaver within the rules of the KISP or the PSP, which includes ill-health, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then the awards will vest on the normal vesting date, but will be adjusted on a time pro-rated basis unless the Committee decides, acting fairly and reasonably, that such an adjustment would be inappropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to reduce further awards granted under the KISP to reflect any personal performance issues.
If the award is structured as a nil-cost option, it will normally be exercisable for a period of six months from the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines that it may vest on the date of cessation.
In circumstances where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, then the award will vest on the date the Company is notified and, if the award is structured as a nil-cost option, then it will be exercisable for a period of twelve months from the date of notification.
The Committee will determine the vesting of the award based upon the performance conditions attached to the awards and a reduction in the number of shares on a time pro-rated basis unless the Committee decides, acting fairly and reasonably, that such an adjustment would be inappropriate.
In the event of a takeover or other corporate event such as the winding-up of the Company, awards will vest on the date of notification, but will be adjusted on a time pro-rated basis unless the Committee decides, in its absolute discretion, that such an adjustment would be inappropriate and in the case of an award structured as a nil-cost option, will be exercisable for a period of one month from the date of notification.
Deferred Bonus Awards granted under the KISP from 2015 onwards and the KISS up to 2014 Awards granted under the KISS lapse if the executive director resigns or is dismissed for cause.
In all other circumstances, the award will vest in full on the date of cessation of employment and will remain exercisable for a period of six months 12 months in the case of death.
Deferred Bonus Awards which will be granted under the KISP from 2015 onwards will lapse if the executive director resigns or is dismissed for cause.
If an executive director ceases to be employed as a result of a reason defined as a good leaver which includes ill-health, disability or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then the awards will vest on the normal vesting date.
If the award is structured as a nil-cost option, it will be exercisable for a period of six months from the normal vesting date.
In circumstances where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, then the award will vest in full on the date the Company is notified and, if the award is structured as a nil-cost option, then it will be exercisable for a period of twelve months from the date of notification.
In the event of a takeover or other corporate event such as the winding-up of the Company, awards will vest on the date of notification and in the case of an award structured as a nil-cost option, will be exercisable for a period of one month from the date of notification.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP is an HMRC approved share option plan.
Options granted under the CSOP are linked to an underpinning deferred bonus award granted under the KISS and the two must be exercised simultaneously.
Options granted under the CSOP will normally lapse upon cessation of employment.
If an executive director ceases to be employed as a result of a reason defined as a good leaver within the rules of the CSOP, which include injury, disability or the sale or transfer of the business or company that employs them the option will vest on the cessation of employment and will be exercisable for a period of six months.
If the executive director leaves due to retirement, the award will vest on the normal vesting date or if the cessation of employment is within six months of the normal vesting date it will vest on the date of cessation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 56 56 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2013 14 The differences between the Remuneration Policy for 2013 14 and the policy on which shareholders will vote at the 2014 AGM are set out below.
Performance metrics used, weighting and Component value Operation of the component Maximum potential time period applicable no difference no difference n a Base salary no difference no difference no difference Benefits 33% of 2013 14 annual bonus no difference, maximum In 2013 14 the annual bonus was Annual bonus will be deferred for three years.
based on the following metrics: opportunity remains at 200% of base salary.
Profit 30% 50% of the 2014 15 annual bonus will be deferred for three Relative LFL sales 30% years under the new plan.
Sourcing & Productivity 20% Personal performance 20% Following the one-off award of No awards were made in No award was made in 2013 14 LTIP 500% of base salary made in 2013 14.
In future awards will be 2011 under the PSP, no awards granted on an annual basis at a were made in 2012 or 2013. maximum of 200% of base salary Annual awards will be made with flexibility to award up to in future.
250% of salary for the Group Chief Executive.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee invites the Group HR Director to present at its meeting the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally and on any other changes to remuneration policy within the Group.
The Group HR Director consults with the Committee on the KPIs for the executive directors bonuses and the extent to which these should be cascaded to other employees.
The Committee has oversight of all LTIP awards across the Group.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for all One Team Board members, approves the policy on share award levels for all employees and uses this information to ensure that there is consistency of approach throughout the Group.
The Company did not consult with employees when drafting the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Directors service contracts letters of appointment Date of service contract Length of service Current directors letter of appointment Expiry of current term at 1 February 2014 Daniel Bernard 24 05 2006 30 06 2015 7 years Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 15 12 2015 4 years Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 16 11 2016 3 years Clare Chapman 02 12 2010 01 12 2016 3 years Sir Ian Cheshire 28 01 2008 Rolling 13 years Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 15 12 2015 4 years Janis Kong 08 12 2006 06 12 2015 7 years Kevin OByrne 01 10 2008 Rolling 5 years Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 31 12 2014 2 years Philippe Tible 01 10 2012 Rolling 1 year Karen Witts 01 10 2012 Rolling 1 year www.
com 57 57 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The tables and charts below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each executive director in respect of the remuneration opportunity granted to them in 2014 15.
Potential outcomes based on different performance scenarios are provided for each executive director.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the Remuneration Policy in 2014 15 under three different performance levels is shown below.
Benefits: Estimate based upon benefits received during 2013 14 and recorded in the single figure table of remuneration.
Pension: based upon pension of 30% of base salary for Sir Ian Cheshire and of 20% of base salary for Kevin OByrne and Karen Witts.
Philippe Tibles pension is based on that for 2013 14.
Below threshold performance would result in the payment of the fixed elements of pay only.
On-target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 50% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
On-target for the Participation Scheme 8,500, maximum 23,900.
On-target for the Interessement Scheme 10% of salary, maximum 20% of salary.
Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus payment and 100% vesting of the LTIP award.
Performance scenarios Below threshold On-target Maximum Only the fixed pay elements Fixed pay elements plus on-target Fixed pay elements plus maximum base salary, benefits and pension Annual Bonus plus on-target Annual Bonus plus maximum LTIP of the package are earned.
Minimum performance targets for Annual Bonus on-target performance is Annual Bonus at maximum, resulting the Annual Bonus and LTIP are not achieved, resulting in a bonus of 50% in a bonus of 100% of maximum achieved, therefore no payments will of maximum 100% of base salary.
be made and LTIP awards will lapse.
For the LTIP, the on-target vesting level is LTIP maximum is 200% of base salary.
50% of maximum 100% of base salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 58 58 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Annual Remuneration Report Single total figure of remuneration for each director Audited The following table shows a single figure of remuneration in respect of directors qualifying services for the financial years 2013 14 and 2012 13.
2 Philippe Tibles remuneration and the fees paid to Provestis in respect of the provision of Daniel Bernard as Chairman, are paid in euros and are converted to sterling for the purpose of the table at the average exchange rate over the course of the relevant year 2013 14: 1:1.1782.
3 Includes payments in relation to Interessement and Participation schemes in France 58,190.
The 2012 13 figure has been restated to include Interessement and Participation schemes payments not included within prior year disclosure 51,846.
4 Fees for the provision of Daniel Bernard as Chairman are paid to a service company, Provestis, which also receives a contribution towards the cost of running the Chairmans office in Paris of 61,800 52,456.
The 2012 13 figure has been restated to include the contribution for office costs in 2012 13 50,144.
5 The annual bonus will be paid in April 2014 for the financial year 2013 14.
One third of the bonus awarded will be deferred under the KISS into Kingfisher shares for three years and will be available to vest in April 2017.
6 The LTIP value is based upon the 2011 PSP awards which are due to vest in June 2014 and June 2015, based upon performance over the three financial years ending 1 February 2014.
The award has been valued using the average Kingfisher share price over the three months to 31 January 2014 380.31p.
7 Excludes 8,888, included in the 2012 13 report which represented the net equivalent gain following the exercise of phantom options awarded in April 2002 and exercised in 2012.
8 The prior year comparison for Sir Ian Cheshires pension contribution has been restated to include the increase in transfer value net of directors contributions on the defined benefit pension scheme.
com 59 59 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Notes to the single total figure of remuneration for each director Audited Base salary and fees Executive directors salaries were increased with effect from 31 January 2013.
Base salaries for 2013 14 and 2012 13 are shown below.
Base salary 000 As at 3 As at 29 Feb 2013 Jan 2012 % increase Sir Ian Cheshire 832.3 816.0 2.0% 1 Kevin OByrne 627.0 600.0 4.5% 2 3 Philippe Tible 509.3 436.1 9.0% Karen Witts 484.5 475.0 2.0% 1 The increase in Kevin OByrnes base salary reflected the broadening of his role as CEO of the B&Q division and responsibility for the Groups joint ventures.
2 The increase in Philippe Tibles base salary was in recognition of the expansion of his role as executive director of the Company.
His remuneration is paid in euros and is converted to sterling for the purpose of the table at the average exchange rate over the course of the relevant year.
3 The percentage increase is depicted in constant currency and reflects the increase in Philippe Tibles base salary from 550,000 to 600,000.
The Chairman and non-executive directors fees were increased with effect from 1 February 2013.
Fee rates for 2013 14 and 2012 13 are shown below.
Fees 000 As at 3 As at 29 Feb 2013 Jan 2012 % increase 1 Chairman 472.4 443.7 2% Non-executive director fee 61.2 60.0 2% Senior Independent Director 17.4 17.4 0% Chairman of Audit Committee 20.0 20.0 0% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 15.0 15.0 0% 1 Fees for the provision of the Chairman are paid in euros and converted to sterling for the purpose of the table at the average exchange rate over the course of the relevant year.
The percentage increase for the Chairman is depicted in constant currency.
Taxable benefits The benefits provided to executive directors for both 2013 14 and 2012 13 included car benefit or cash allowance, private medical insurance, death in service cover and financial advice.
Annual bonus The executive directors targets for the 2013 14 bonus were based on both financial targets and individual objectives as set out in the tables below, with annual bonus payments determined by reference to performance over the financial year ending 1 February 2014.
For the financial targets achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis between start to earn and target and between target and maximum.
Group profit before tax at constant exchange rates grew modestly year-on-year, but was behind the Threshold level of performance and so no bonus was paid on this element.
Retail operating profit performance for B&Q and Kotas brands was just above Threshold and so warranted a small bonus payment on this element for Kevin OByrne.
Like-for-like sales growth was below target as we faced significant sector-wide declines in a number of our markets.
However, in a number of our markets we grew market share even if absolute levels of like-for-like sales growth were below target.
Overall this performance resulted in a level of payment modestly above Threshold.
In the face of challenging trading conditions the Group made good productivity improvements at the level of store productivity but also in identifying and delivering cost savings across the Group.
As a result our productivity targets were slightly exceeded, leading to a payment between Target and Maximum.
Similarly good progress was achieved on our sourcing strategy where synergies and improvements in direct sourcing and own brand sourcing resulted in the Group as a whole being just above the target level of payment on this measure.
Personal components of bonus reflected generally strong performance against personal objectives and contribution to the One Team behaviours.
Profit before tax retail KPI Sourcing Personal Measure operating profit Like-for-like sales and productivity performance Weighting at maximum bonus 30% 30% 20% 20% Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 60 60 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Outcomes achieved as a % of Maximum Performance Measure Target Actual Sir Ian Cheshire Kevin OByrne Philippe Tible Karen Witts 1 Profit before tax 765m 744.0m 0% 0% 2 Retail operating profit 5% 0% 3 Like for like sales 3.3% 0.7% 15% 15% 2 Divisional like for like sales 10% 15% 4 Sourcing and productivity 58% 71% 17% 58% Personal objectives 80% 85% 78% 85% Totals 32% 36% 24% 33% Bonus receivable 532.7 453.9 239.4 319.8 1 The award level was determined after removing any impact of exchange rate variations.
Once the favourable exchange rate movement had been removed from the results, the award level was determined as nil.
2 Retail operating profit and divisional like-for-like sales, measured at the business unit level, are considered commercially confidential and are therefore not disclosed.
3 The targets were set based on absolute like-for-like performance, with the ability for the Committee to use its judgement in adjusting awards up and down taking into account like-for-like out-turn versus local market and any consequent improvement or deterioration in market share.
4 Sourcing and productivity included measures related to cost price reduction and cost savings achieved from additional opportunities not included in the budget.
These measures are considered commercially confidential and are therefore not disclosed.
Long-term incentive plan The LTIP amount included in the 2013 14 single figure table is the PSP award granted in 2011.
Vesting is dependent upon performance over the three financial years ending 1 February 2014 and continued employment up to the vesting date in June 2014.
The performance against performance targets is set out below.
Threshold Maximum % of maximum Performance Measure 15 % vesting 100% vesting Actual achieved.
Earnings per share EPS 25.8p 31.2p 23.4p 0% Kingfisher Economic Profit KEP 229m 386m 288.4m 62.2% Total 31.1% KEP is defined in the Financial Review on page 24.
As the awards had not vested at the date this report was finalised, the average share price for the last three months of the financial year 380.31p has been used to determine the value for the purposes of the single figure total.
The awards held by executive directors were as follows: Number of Number of Number of Value of shares dividend shares shares shares 2011 PSP awards awarded applied vesting vesting Sir Ian Cheshire 1,502,043 111,548 502,079 1,909,457 Kevin OByrne 1,104,443 82,018 369,175 1,404,009 2 Philippe Tible 851,440 54,914 282,018 1,072,543 1 Karen Witts 498,857 14,240 159,653 607,176 1 Karen Witts received an award on joining the Group on 1 October 2012 based upon 285% of her base salary.
The award was time pro-rated equivalent to the 500% award the other executive directors received in June 2011.
2 An additional award was made to Philippe Tible in May 2012 in recognition of the expansion of his role and to bring him in line with the other executive directors who received awards of 500% compared to Mr Tibles initial award of 375%.
For all participants, the vesting of awards have been estimated as if the full award were released and was available for exercise.
However, 50% of the award will vest and will be available for exercise in June 2014 with the remaining 50% to vest and be available to directors in June 2015. www.
com 61 61 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors pension plan benefits The Company operates a defined contribution pension plan for executive directors based in the United Kingdom.
Sir Ian Cheshires defined contribution pension arrangement provides a Company contribution of 30% of his base salary, and Kevin OByrnes and Karen Witts arrangements provide a Company contribution of 20% of base salary.
The Company operates a policy to limit pension contributions during the tax year up to the Annual Allowance, with the excess being directed into a taxable monthly cash payment.
Following pension and tax legislation changes which took effect in 2012 and which reduced the lifetime allowance from 1.8 million to 1.5 million, the Company has offered a fully taxable cash alternative, at no additional cost to the Company, to executive directors wishing to exit the defined contribution scheme completely.
Kevin OByrne has chosen to receive his Company pension contributions as a taxable monthly cash supplement in full.
Philippe Tible is a member of a separate Group defined benefit pension scheme, for which eligibility requires him to retire with the Kingfisher Group.
He has now met the age criteria of 62 in this scheme to retire and for the pension to crystallise.
Based upon 11 years service, the pension accrued is valued at 3.3m.
The increase in the value of his pension over the course of the financial year is 320,000 as shown in the single figure table.
These figures are based on a crystallised pension and have not been discounted in any way for the risk of forfeiture.
The following table shows details required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 as they apply to Kingfisher for the year ended 1 February 2014.
The value of the increase in pension savings over the year is split between: Defined benefit arrangements the additional value achieved in the year based on the HMRC methodology Defined contribution arrangements the cash value of any employer contributions over the year.
Changes in Pension pension savings Source of remuneration arrangement 000 Sir Ian Cheshire Final Salary Defined benefit 2 Money Purchase Plan Defined contribution 0 Payment in lieu of retirement benefits n a 258.4 Sir Ian Cheshire ceased to accrue future benefits in the Final Salary section on 30 June 2012.
Under that scheme, Sir Ians normal retirement age is 65 and his accrued pension figure at 1 February 2014 was 34,077.
The increase in Sir Ian Cheshires defined benefit arrangement is because the HMRC methodology increases the opening pension 2 February 2013 with the change in the CPI index whereas the closing pension 1 February 2014 includes an increase at 1 April 2013 based on the change in the RPI index.
Note that there have been no member contributions payable in respect of the Final Salary section since 30 June 2012.
The defined contribution figure above represents employer contributions to the Money Purchase Plan over the year in question.
Member contributions of 52,000 were paid on behalf of Sir Ian Cheshire through salary sacrifice.
The following table shows the employer contributions made to the defined contribution scheme, or cash alternative in relation to service during the financial year to 1 February 2014: 1 Cash alternative 000 2013 14 2012 13 2 Sir Ian Cheshire 258.4 230.7 Kevin OByrne 123.1 114.6 3 Karen Witts 103.1 31.7 1 Following pension and tax legislation changes, effective 6 April 2011, tax relief on the value of pension contributions and defined benefit accrual has been limited to 50,000 p. a.
The Company has offered, as an alternative to contributions into the defined contribution pension scheme, a taxable cash payment to the executive directors at no additional cost to the Company.
2 The payments to Sir Ian Cheshire in 2013 14 and 2012 13 include a goodwill payment received following the closure of the Kingfisher defined benefit scheme and his transfer to the Kingfisher defined contribution scheme.
These payments were offered to all members of the scheme on the same terms.
3 Member contributions under the Kingfisher defined contribution pension scheme of 54,000 were paid on behalf of Karen Witts through salary sacrifice.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 62 62 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Outside appointments for executive directors Subject to the rules governing conflicts of interest, the Company is supportive of its executive directors holding non-executive roles outside the Group as it recognises that such roles can broaden their experience and knowledge, which can be of benefit to the Group.
Subject to the Committees agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
Kevin OByrne is a non-executive director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Land Securities Group plc, and during the year was paid 63,750, 10,000 and 17,500 per annum respectively for fulfilling these roles and he retains these fees.
Sir Ian Cheshire is a non-executive director, member of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director of Whitbread plc, and is paid 55,000, 5,000 and 10,000 per annum respectively for fulfilling these roles and he retains these fees.
In addition, Sir Ian Cheshire is lead non-executive member of the Department for Work and Pensions Board, for which he waives his fee.
Karen Witts became a non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco Group plc following the end of the financial year and will be paid 72,500 per annum for fulfilling this role.
She will retain her fee for this role.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Audited Options and awards over shares were made during the year ended 1 February 2014 under the KISS and the CSOP.
KISS awards were made in respect of the executive directors annual bonus earned for the performance during 2012 13 and are deferred for three years.
The only qualifying condition for the options and awards to vest is for the director to be in the employment of the Company at the vesting date.
Market value Face value of shares at of award date of grant 2 Name Number of shares p Vesting date Lapse date Sir Ian Cheshire 57,603 171,196 297.2 11 04 2016 10 04 2020 Kevin OByrne 39,605 117,706 297.2 11 04 2016 10 04 2020 Philippe Tible 41,780 124,170 297.2 11 04 2016 10 04 2020 Karen Witts KISS Award 864 2,568 297.2 11 04 2016 10 04 2020 1 Karen Witts CSOP Option 10,313 30,650 297.2 11 04 2016 10 04 2020 1 The option was granted at an option price of 290.87p calculated by reference to the average closing price of Kingfisher plc shares for the three dealing days immediately before the date of grant.
2 The market price of shares was determined by reference to the closing price of Kingfisher plc shares on the date of grant 11 April 2013.
Included as an element of the KISS award, Karen Witts was granted options under the CSOP, a HMRC approved plan.
The CSOP is underpinned in part by a matching fixed value element of the KISS share awards granted on the same day.
On exercise, the proceeds of part of the KIS share award are used to fund the exercise price of the CSOP award.
The total value of the KISS share award is unchanged.
Dilution limits Kingfishers share plans contain limits that set out the quantum of newly issued shares that may be used to satisfy awards granted under those plans.
These limits are in line with the current Association of British Insurers ABI guidance on headroom limits which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on executive plans.
The Company has always operated within these limits.
The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making of any award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 1 February 2014.
Payments to past directors and payments for loss of office No payments were made to past directors or for loss of office during the year.
com 63 63 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Audited All executive directors are required to build up a significant shareholding in the Company within five years from the date of their first award under a qualifying plan as described in the section on Remuneration Policy on page 52.
Unvested deferred bonus awards are not included when assessing holding requirements until the transfer of beneficial ownership at the end of the deferral period.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table.
Calculations are based on a share price of 3.696 being the closing price on 31 January 2014.
Shares held Awards over shares Unvested 3 Unvested and Number of shares Vested and subject subject to Shareholding Current owned outright Requirement but not to continued performance required shareholding 2013 14 2012 13 exercised employment conditions % of salary % of salary met Executive directors Sir Ian Cheshire 2,348,088 1,147,527 434,067 1,613,591 300% 1042% Yes Kevin OByrne 141,431 141,431 1,393,280 320,049 1,186,461 200% 519% Yes Philippe Tible 589,461 104,968 246,901 906,354 200% 427% Yes 2 1 Karen Witts 58,283 58,186 24,664 513,097 200% 44.5% n a Non-executive directors Daniel Bernard 121,717 120,766 Andrew Bonfield 10,000 10,000 Pascal Cagni 30,570 30,000 Clare Chapman 6,990 6,990 Anders Dahlvig 75,000 75,000 Janis Kong 24,000 24,000 Mark Seligman 15,000 15,000 1 Karen Witts has until 16 October 2017 to achieve the shareholding requirement, being five years from the date of her first award under a qualifying scheme.
2 Between 1 February 2014 and the date of this report, Karen Witts acquired an additional 63 partnership shares under the Kingfisher Share Investment Plan SIP.
3 For UK based directors, this includes options granted under the CSOP, a HMRC approved plan and the CSOP underpin award, a matching fixed value element of the KISS award granted on the same day as the KISS.
Also included are options under the HMRC approved sharesave scheme.
As potential beneficiaries under the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, Sir Ian Cheshire, Kevin OByrne, Philippe Tible and Karen Witts are deemed to have an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by the Trust.
The Trust held 10,043,624 ordinary shares at 1 February 2014.
Nil-cost options which have vested but have yet to be exercised are considered to count towards the shareholding requirement, other than any such shares that correspond to the estimated income tax and national insurance contributions that would arise on their exercise.
Non-executive directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
Scheme interests exercised during financial year Audited Market value of shares at Gain on Exercise date of exercise of Number of price exercise options Name shares p p 000 Sir Ian Cheshire ESOS 2003 award 134,538 237.8 288.3 67.9 KISS 2010 award 269,779 nil 288.7 777.9 PSP 2008 matching award 1,299,886 nil 292.7 3,805.2 PSP 2009 award 328,726 nil 297.7 962.3 PSP 2010 award 368,413 nil 324.8 1,196.7 Kevin OByrne PSP 2008 award 665,000 nil 292.7 1,946.7 Philippe Tible ESOS 2003 award 52,105 237.8 288.3 26.3 KISS 2010 award 132,368 nil 411.2 544.3 1 PSP 2010 award 274,602 nil 326.7 920.3 1 Gain includes 247,224 shares transferred to Philippe Tible on 15 May 2013 at a market price of 326.7 pence per share and 27,378 shares exercised and sold on 11 September 2013 at a price of 411.2 pence per share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 64 64 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2009 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Performance graph and table The graph below shows Kingfishers total shareholder return TSR for the five years to 1 February 2014 which assumes that 100 was invested in Kingfisher on 1 February 2009.
The Company chose the FTSE100 Index as an appropriate comparator for this graph as Kingfisher has been a constituent of that index throughout the period.
350 300 250 200 150 100 King sher FTSE 100 Group Chief Executives pay in last five financial years Year 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Group Chief Executives total single figure 000 3,067.8 5,350.8 8,628.3 2,817.2 3,565.5 Bonus % of maximum awarded % 98.7 83.8 93.5 30.8 32.0 LTIP % of maximum vesting % 44.6 100.0 98.9 50.0 31.1 Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Group Chief Executive The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 13 and 2013 14 compared with the average percentage change in the average of each of those components for all full-time equivalent employees based in the UK.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as Sir Ian Cheshire is based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Group Chief Executive All employees Percentage Percentage To 1 February change change 2014 2013 14 vs 2013 14 vs 000 2012 13 2012 13 Base salary 832.3 2.0% 2.0% Taxable benefits 30.6 -0.6% -1.0% Annual bonus 532.7 6.0% 71.8% Total 1,395.6 3.4% 6.3% The decrease in benefits is driven by a reduction in the private medical cover premium, rather than a reduction in the benefits offered.
The significant annual bonus % increase for all UK employees is driven off a relatively low base for 2012 13, hence this does not impact the overall increase significantly.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative importance of spend on employee remuneration when compared with distributions to shareholders.
Percentage m 2013 14 2012 13 change Overall expenditure on pay 1,587 1,577 0.6% Dividends paid in the year 224 221 1.4% www.
com 65 65 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year The Remuneration Policy will be implemented with effect from the AGM in 2014 in line with policy as follows: Base salary and fees Base salary and fees 000 As at 1 Feb 2014 As at 1 Feb 2013 % increase Sir Ian Cheshire 849.0 832.3 2% Kevin OByrne 639.5 627.0 2% Philippe Tible 519.5 509.3 2% Karen Witts 525.0 484.5 8% Chairman 480.8 472.4 2% Non-executive director fee 62.4 61.2 2% Senior Independent director 17.4 17.4 0% Chairman of Audit Committee 20.0 20.0 0% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 15.0 15.0 0% Philippe Tibles remuneration and the fees paid to Provestis in respect of the provision of Daniel Bernard as Chairman, are paid in euros and are converted to sterling for the purpose of the table at the average exchange rate over the course of the relevant year.
The increase awarded to Karen Witts was based on the intention to bring her up to the market median position as she develops into her role, and gains more experience as a Group Financial Director.
Benefits Implemented in line with policy.
All employee share plans Implemented in line with policy.
Pension Implemented in line with policy.
Annual bonus Implemented in line with policy.
Weighting of annual bonus for 2014 15 Profit before tax 30% Like-for-like sales 30% Cashflow 20% Personal objectives 20% At the threshold level of performance, the award will be 10% of maximum.
Profit before tax is calculated on the basis of budgeted exchange rates and excludes exceptional items according to the judgement of the Committee.
Like-for-like sales is set as an absolute target, but the Committee applies judgement in measuring the outcome against target, taking into account sales growth against the local market out-turn and any consequent increase or decrease in market share.
Cashflow excludes capital expenditure, but the Committee may apply judgement to ensure that the measure has not been met at the expense of investment.
Any exchange rate upsides downsides will be removed from the results when determining award levels, since they are deemed to be outside the executive directors control.
Long-term incentive plan Implemented in line with policy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 66 66 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Performance measures for long-term incentives to be awarded in 2014 15 Threshold Maximum Performance measure 25% vesting 100% vesting Earnings per share compound annual growth up to 2016 17 4% 11.5% The EPS growth targets have been set to be consistent with market practice in the FTSE100 and in particular the retail sector.
The intention is to operate this range consistently over the policy period.
The Threshold level of performance provides for real growth, which is considered suitably challenging in what remains an uncertain economic environment, but sets an achievable level of performance to ensure participants place value on the plan and are motivated by it.
The Maximum performance level ensures that full vesting is only achieved for outstanding double-digit performance over the three-year period, well in excess of typical industry growth rates.
Performance targets also include a KEP measure.
KEP targets are calibrated to be consistent with the EPS growth targets, recognising that in weaker performance scenarios offsetting capital efficiencies should be identified, whereas stronger performance scenarios may allow increased capital investment.
KEP is defined in the same way as set out in the Financial Review.
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing and approving the remuneration of the executive directors and the members of the Group Executive and for setting the remuneration package for the Chairman.
The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration policy and packages for other senior members of staff.
Members of the Committee The Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors during the financial year to 1 February 2014.
From Attendance Clare Chapman Chairman 16 02 2011 5 5 Daniel Bernard 03 06 2009 5 5 Andrew Bonfield 17 06 2010 5 5 Janis Kong 08 12 2006 5 5 At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the following people attended meetings and provided advice to the Committee: Sir Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive, Karen Witts Group Finance Director, Evelyn Gardiner Group HR Director, Louise Bentham Head of Group Reward and Kathryn Hudson Company Secretary.
Activities During 2013 14 the Committee: agreed the performance targets for the annual bonus in the financial year and monitored progress against those targets: agreed the operation of the long-term incentive plans and policy for executive share plan awards to new recruits, and promotions, including the level of individual awards and performance conditions: agreed the award level of the 2012 13 annual bonus: agreed the vesting levels of the 2010 PSP: recommended the 2012 13 Directors Remuneration Report for endorsement by the Board and subsequent approval by shareholders: reviewed the Groups remuneration strategy: and reviewed the Groups Executive Remuneration Policy prior to recommending it for approval by shareholders.
com 67 67 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration consultants and is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination.
In February 2013, following a robust tender process, the Committee appointed  LLP as its principal adviser.
During the financial year to 1 February 2014, the following external advisers provided services to the Committee.
Unless otherwise stated, the advisers have no other connection with the Group, and the Committee firmly believes that the advice received was, and continues to be, objective and independent:  LLP PwC PwC provided the Committee with executive remuneration advice, including the operation of employee and executive share plans.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional body for executive remuneration consultants and provided certain other services to the Group.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year were 195,000 of which 91,000 related to the comprehensive review of executive remuneration conducted during the year.
Allen & Overy LLP A&O A&O provided legal advice to the Committee on service and employment contracts, and for other employment and remuneration issues.
A&O also provides advice to the Group on other legal matters.
Statement of voting at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting the AGM on 13 June 2013 the annual advisory votes on the remuneration report were cast as follows: Proportion of Shares on Votes for and percentage Votes against and percentage share capital which votes of votes cast of votes cast voting were withheld Resolution Remuneration report for year ended 2 February 2013 1,585,211,665 97.66% 38,040,731 2.34% 68.41% 116,857,614 The Remuneration Policy contained within this report will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on 12 June 2014.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the same meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
The 2014 15 Annual Remuneration Report will include details of the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy.
For and on behalf of the Committee Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 68 68
