52 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Summary of Ladbrokes remuneration principles The principles underlying the Ladbrokes remuneration policy remain STATEMENT FROM DAVID MARTIN, broadly unchanged.
Our total remuneration packages should therefore: CHAIRMAN OF THE be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE support the achievement of organisational goals and be aligned with long-term business strategy: Dear shareholder enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key individuals: and As the Chairman of the Ladbrokes Remuneration Committee, I am be positioned competitively against best market practice, while pleased to present the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report, which paying no more than necessary.
has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules, section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 During 2014, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Account remuneration arrangements across the business assessing all andReports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The Report is set out elements of remuneration, including base salary, benefits and short intwo parts: and long-term incentive arrangements.
The results from the review showed that broadly the existing remuneration framework was clear our remuneration policy Policy Report which was approved by and transparent throughout the Company, remaining appropriately shareholders on 7 May 2014.
For clarity we have updated the linked to personal performance, to business achievement and Policy Report to reflect the 2015 figures where relevant and made shareholder value.
minor changes and clarifications to improve the report.
As the underlying policy is unchanged, there will be no vote on this section However, the review highlighted that the current implementation of at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM : and theapproved Performance Share Plan PSP was no longer fit for our annual report on remuneration detailing how our policy was purpose.
The implementation of the PSP could be improved to ensure implemented in the year ending 31 December 2014 and how it will ongoing alignment to future strategic objectives and continue to be implemented in the year ending 31 December 2015, which is support sustainable value creation in the business.
subject to an advisory vote.
The Remuneration Committee consulted with our main shareholders on a number of revisions in the operation of our PSP which were positively received.
The revisions are within the scope of our approved policy and will be implemented from 2015 onwards.
In light of recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, theCommittee intends to review its policy regarding clawback provisions, with the intention of including any changes in a revised remuneration policy at the next formal approval of policy.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 2014 PERFORMANCE OTHER 2015 PROPOSALS In 2014, we delivered our operational improvements despite In December last year, the Board announced that Richard Glynn will challenging external market conditions.
The profit target for 2014 be leaving in 2015.
During the last five years, Richard has worked hard usedforbonus purposes was affected by strong results in favour to build a stronger Ladbrokes and the foundations have now been laid.
The Board is grateful and we wish him success in the future.
For the 2014 annual bonus, up to 60% of the maximum bonus We are in the process of discussing his leaving arrangements and opportunity was dependent on stretching Group profit targets with looking for his successor.
We will provide updates to shareholders in theremainder dependent on individual objectives, which for the due course.
ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer included a number No changes have been proposed to the base salaries or benefits for 1 of financial and strategic measures.
2014 operating profit excluding the Executive Directors.
The annual bonus plan will still be based on High Rollers was 125.4m which is below the required base level of profit, strategic and individual objectives.
The strategic and individual profit.
Therefore, executive directors did not receive a bonus in respect objectives will remain subject to a discretionary profit underpin.
Ian Bull will be taking on additional operational responsibilities from For the 2012 Performance Share Plan PSP, 50% is payable on March 2015 until the new Chief Executive Officer is fully on-board.
To three-year Earnings Per Share EPS performance with the remaining recognise Ian Bull for these additional responsibilities the Board will 50% payable for three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR pay him a temporary allowance of 10,000 per month from 1 March performance until the end of 2014.
Neither the EPS orTSR threshold 2015 through to 30 November 2015 9 months.
This allowance will be targets were met.
As a result no part of the 2012 PSPwill vest.
used in the calculation of the 2015 cash in lieu of pension payment and In 2010, shareholders approved the Ladbrokes Growth Plan LGP, in any bonus calculation should a bonus be payable based on 2015 aone-off share plan, to incentivise the turnaround of the business.
The Performance Share Plan will remain unchanged Thesecond performance test under this plan occurred at the end of and will be awarded based on up to 150% of base salary.
The executive directors and key senior executives did not temporary allowance will not be included in any award calculation.
earn any additional shares as the share price did not exceed the share Further details are provided on page 67. price required during the performance measurement period for During the coming year, unless already identified, we have no intention additional shares to vest.
However, as per the rules of the plan, a third to further review the remuneration framework unless unforeseen of shares earned from the first performance test at the end of June changes in circumstances make this necessary.
2013, by the executive directors, vested in August 2014.
Both Richard Glynn and Ian Bull voluntarily agreed not to exercise their share rights The Remuneration Committee values all feedback from shareholders, until after July 2014. and hopes to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
PROPOSED REVISIONS TO 2015 PSP a move from two to four measures including a strategic measure based on responsible gambling and a second financial measure ofFree Cash Flow FCF : the TSR element of the award will nowbe assessed as a percentage of outperformance of a refined, highly relevant group ofgaming and leisure competitors: the EPS element will be assessed as a three-year cumulative target rather than being based on three-year point-to-point growth: and introduction of a mandatory two-year holding period for the executive directors and executive committee members.
Further detail on the rationale for the proposed revisions can be found on page 68.
1 Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items.
54 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED POLICY REPORT The following sections set out the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
For avoidance of doubt, it is the Companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing obligations that have been entered into prior to the effective date of this Policy.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy, where the terms of that payments were agreed: i before the Policy came into effect: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment wasnot in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Further details regarding the operation of the Policy can be found on pages 63 to 69 of this report.
POLICY TABLE Fixed remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary Core element of Salaries are typically reviewed annually Salary increases for executive Overall performance of the business remuneration reflecting bythe Remuneration Committee with any directors willnormally be in line with andthe individual are key the size andscope of change normally being effective from increases for the wider workforce.
considerations in setting salary levels.
an individuals 1March of each year.
There is no maximum salary responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee typically Salary levels are set at takes into consideration a number of Higher increases may be awarded a level to attract and internal and external factors when setting in individual circumstances, at retain the talent salaries, including: theRemuneration Committees necessary to deliver discretion, including, but not business and individual performance: thebusiness strategy.
limitedto: the individuals skills and experience: a significant increase in scope and or responsibility of the affordability: role: or inflation: if a new executive director is appointed at a lower salary which market positioning: and is to be aligned with market over pay and conditions elsewhere in time based on performance.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to review salaries at any point as it considers appropriate.
Benefits Fixed element of Benefits to executive directors may include Whilst no maximum monetary None remuneration providing private healthcare for the executive director value exists, benefits are set by market competitive and his family, critical illness, disability and taking into account a number of benefit to support the life assurance, injury in service benefits, an factors including market practice attraction and retention allowance for tax advice and a cash for comparable roles within of talent.
allowance in lieu of acompany car.
appropriate pay comparators and taking into account individual The Remuneration Committee keeps circumstances e. g. relocation.
thebenefits offered, the policies and levelsunder regular review.
Participation in the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related The Remuneration Committee may also Share Option Scheme is limited remove benefits that executive directors tothe maximum award levels receive or introduce other benefits if it permitted by the relevant considers it is appropriate to do so.
Where executive directors are required torelocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefits, ifconsidered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
Executive directors are also eligible toparticipate in the Companys two all-employee share plans the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme on the same basisas other eligible colleagues.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Fixed remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement benefits Fixed element of Executive directors can opt to join the In general, the levels of cash None remuneration to assist Companys defined contribution scheme supplement and or employer with retirement ortake a cash supplement in lieu.
defined contribution provided are planning which intended to be broadly market The Remuneration Committee keeps supports the attraction typical for the role.
The thecash supplement and or employer and retention of talent.
Remuneration Committee reserves defined contribution level under the right to make adjustments to regularreview.
these levels in the event of market movements.
The cash supplement is not included incalculating annual bonus or long-term Whilst there is no maximum incentive quantum.
pension level, the current level is 22.5% of base salary.
Variable remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Incentivise Performance is measured over one year: 170% of base salary for the Chief Performance is measured against performance on an bonus is payable after the year-end.
Executive Officer, 130% of salary acombination of financial measures annual basis against for other executive directors.
currently profit-based and strategic Measures and targets are reviewed and key financial metrics and or individual objectives.
At least determined by the Remuneration and demanding 60% of the bonus will be based on Committee annually.
financial measures and the remainder Committee reviews the performance on strategic and or individual objectives.
Deferral into shares is against these targets after the year-end to No bonus will be awarded ifa base intended to enhance determine the level of bonus pay-out.
level of profit is not achieved inthe shareholder alignment bonus year.
A portion of any bonus earned currently and reinforce retention.
one-third is compulsorily deferred into an Strategic and individual measures award of shares or equivalents in nil-cost selected may vary each year options or cash under the deferred bonus depending on business context plan DBP.
These shares are not subject to andstrategy, and will be weighted any further performance conditions, will not accordingly to business priorities.
normally vest for a period of at least three These objectives are reviewed years and are forfeitable if the participant andapproved by the Remuneration leaves employment before the vesting date Committee at the start of the unless the Remuneration Committee financialyear.
Between 0% and 100% of the Participants may receive the value in cash maximum award applies for or shares of dividends paid on shares achievement between base level thatvest in respect of the period between ofprofit and a personal rating of 3 the grant and satisfaction of a deferred whichis considered to be good bonus award.
performance measured against the Companys highstandards and In line with the UK Corporate Governance stretchperformance targets and Code, malus provisions apply under which apersonal rating of 5 which is the Remuneration Committee may cancel considered to be truly exceptional.
or reduce vesting of unvested awards or impose further conditions on those awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or gross misconduct.
The annual bonus is operated in accordance with the terms of the annual bonus plan andDBP rules which include the capacity for the Remuneration Committee to adjust or amend the terms of the awards.
56 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Variable remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Share Plan PSP Promotes the Awards will be structured in the form of The normal awardlevels as a Awards vest based on performance long-term success of conditional share awards or equivalents percentage of base salary will against a combination of performance the business.
innil-cost options or cash with vesting be175% forthe Chief Executive measures.
dependent on the achievement of Officer and 150% forother Incentivises executives At least 50% of the award will be based stretching performance measures over executive directors.
and the broader senior on financial measures and a further atleast threeyears.
management team to The Remuneration Committee portion of no more than 50% will be deliver performance For awards granted in 2015 onwards willhave thediscretion to make based on TSR performance.
vestedshares will be mandatorily higher awards in exceptional balance would be linked to performance heldforanadditional two years by circumstances subjectto the against specific strategic objectives.
individual plan limit of 250% of For threshold levels of performance basesalary.
Share based to provide Dividends or equivalents may accrue up to 25% of the award vests, greater alignment with during the vesting period only on shares increasing on astraight line basis to shareholder interests.
100% of the award for maximum performance.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, malus provisions apply under which In line with the rules of the PSP, the the Remuneration Committee may cancel performance condition may be or reduce vesting of unvested awards or replaced or varied if an event occurs or impose further conditions on those awards circumstances arise, e. g. a significant in the event ofa material misstatement of regulatory change, which causes the the Groups financial results or gross Committee, acting fairly andreasonably, misconduct.
to determine that a substituted or amended performance condition would The PSP is operated in accordance with be appropriate takinginto account the theterms of the PSP rules which was interests of theshareholders of the approved by shareholders on 18 May 2007 Company provided that the amended and include the Remuneration Committees performance condition would continue capacity to adjust or amend the terms of to achieve its original purpose.
Performance measures PSP NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable Minor text changes have been made to the policy table to improve its returns to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee strives to readability and clarify its operation.
The most significant isthe addition achieve this by aligning the performance measures under the PSP of a mandatory two year holding period under the PSP which was with the long-term strategy and priorities of the Company and included to improve alignment with shareholders views and is considers that strong performance under these metrics should consistent with developing market practice.
Performance measures annual bonus The Remuneration Committee considers that a combination of The annual bonus performance measures are chosen to provide an financial and strategic measures and a measure of value delivered appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to meet toshareholders is most appropriate when measuring long-term financial targets for the year and to deliver specific strategic, operational sustainable performance at Ladbrokes.
The use of a scorecard of and individual goals.
This balance allows the Remuneration Committee measures recognises and rewards performance against a wide range to reward performance effectively against the key elements of our of relevant measures and helps ensure awards are less all or nothing, strategy.
The precise bonus targets are set by the Remuneration Committee Additional disclosure legacy arrangements LGP each year to ensure that executive directors are appropriately The LGP was approved by shareholders on 14 May 2010.
Full details focusedon the key objectives for the next 12 months.
In doing so, ofthe LGP are set out in the circular sent to shareholders seeking theRemuneration Committee intends to take into account a number approval for the LGP at the time of implementation.
As a legacy of internal and external reference points, including the Companys arrangement, the LGP is not included within the Policy table above.
However, we have chosen to voluntarily disclose summary details ofthe LGP here for ease of reference.
Purpose and link to strategy The LGP was a one-off long-term incentive plan which was designed to incentivise over 140 key senior executives to support revitalisation of the business and create significant, sustainable long-term shareholder value.
The plan rewards value creation of between 400m to 1.3bn for shareholders.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Operation One-off awards were made under this plan in 2010 Officer, he was required to invest in circa 1 million Ladbrokes to the Chief Executive Officer and in 2011 to other participants.
shares and received a four times matching award.
Nofurther awards willbe made under the plan, which ends in Performance measures Awards are subject to share price June2015.
The performance period for all awards is five years, performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained which began in June 2010 and ends in June 2015.
A portion of throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days.
25% of the theaward was eligible for vesting at the end of year three of the award will vest if a share price of 2.00 is achieved.
100% of the performance period June 2013.
No further vesting occurred at award will vest if a share price of 2.97 is achieved.
Vesting will be theend of year four June 2014.
The remainder of the award may on a straight line basis between the minimum and maximum share vest at the end of year five June 2015, subject to the achievement price targets i. e. between 2.00 and 2.97. of the performance targets.
Participants may receive the value of The Remuneration Committee has the authority to amend the targets dividends paid on any vested shares.
if it is necessary to take account of exceptional factors including, for Maximum opportunity Executive directors were required to example, corporate events or exceptional market or industry factors invest up to 150% of base salary in shares and can potentially which would otherwise render the targets inappropriate.
receive up to a four times matching award in respect of that investment.
The matching award will normally only vest to the extent this investment is retained.
In the case of the Chief Executive The table below shows the timeframe of executive directors remuneration arrangements for 2015 onwards.
Element of remuneration 2015 Y Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Salary 100% paid Benefits including in cash retirement benefits 2 3 paid in cash Performance Annual bonus period 1 3 deferred as shares for three-years and subject to malus Performance period 100% subject to two-year holding period Award exercisable PSP Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed to be aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Although there are differences in pay between the executive directors and the wider colleague population, all reward arrangements are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below: Remuneration objectives Arrangement s used for wider Group Be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation Key personnel participate in PSP with the same performance metrics as forexecutive directors.
Support the achievement of organisational goals and be aligned with long-term business goals Two all-employee share incentive schemes are in operation the Share Enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key individuals Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to encourage share ownership.
Be positioned competitively against market practice, whilst paying no more than necessary Key Group financial measures under colleague bonus arrangements are aligned with those for executive directors to ensure consistency across the organisation and delivery of strategic goals.
Colleagues also have relevant and therefore motivational team and individual targets to focus the team on key deliverables in their area of business.
Use of survey data to ensure all elements of remuneration are aligned with market as appropriate.
58 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Non-Executive Chairman and non-executive director NED fees Sole element of The Non-Executive Chairman receives Whilst there is no maximum individual None remuneration, paid an all-inclusive fee for the role.
fee level, fees are set at a level which is forfulfilling the considered appropriate to attract and The remuneration of the Non-Executive relevantrole.
retain the calibre of individual required Chairman is set by the Remuneration bythe Company, but the Company Committee.
The Non-Executive avoidspaying more than necessary for Chairman receives a basic annual fee.
The Board may determine feeincreases at any point as it NEDs receive a basic annual fee in considers appropriate in line with respect of their Board duties.
Further market movements and to take into feesare paid to NEDs in respect of account the time commitment and chairmanship and membership of duties involved.
Fees are paid for the following roles Fees are normally based on the level duties: offees paid to Chairmen and NEDs serving on boards of similar Non-Executive Chairman: companies, the time commitment required of the role and the duties Senior Independent Director: involved and take into consideration other NEDs: therequirement to attract and retain thequality of individuals required by supplementary fee for chair theCompany.
oftheAudit or Remuneration Committee : and Fees are normally reviewed at least onceannually.
supplementary fee for membership ofthe Audit and or Remuneration The Board is responsible for Committees.
determining fees for other NEDs, although the NEDs are not involved The Chairman and NEDs will not be indiscussions about their own fees.
eligible for annual bonus, share incentives and pensions.
There are currently no clawback provisions in place to enable recovery Reasonable expenses e. g. travel, ofsums paid.
accommodation and subsistence associated with Chairman and NEDs Fees are normally paid in cash, duties will be reimbursed, including although the Company retains the anytax due on the benefits.
rightto settle all part of the fees as shares of equivalent value.
Not paid to Chairman or Senior IndependentDirector Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 asignificant portion would be share-based, but in all circumstances RECRUITMENT POLICY subject to the overriding cap of 420% of salary.
Principles and approach The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual tothe Board including internal promotions, the Remuneration circumstances when an interim executive director is required to fill Committee applies the following principles: arole on a short-term basis or if exceptional circumstances require The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious that any thatthe Chairman or a non-executive director takes on an executive arrangements should be in the best interests of Ladbrokes and function on a short-term basis.
ourshareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
Buy-outs The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all relevant To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make factors, including the calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, compensatory payments and or awards for any remuneration local market practice, the individuals current remuneration arrangements subject to forfeiture on leaving a previous employer.
package, Ladbrokes remuneration policy, internal relativities andexisting arrangements for other executive directors.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of any terms attached to the forfeited arrangements.
Awards will take such Salaries will reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to reflect allrelevant factors such as the nature of the award, any performance performance in the role.
The Committee also retains the right to conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions determine that in the first year of appointment any annual bonus being met, and the proportion of vesting performance period award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine.
The Committees intention is that the value awarded Typically, the remuneration package for a new appointment will wouldbe equivalent to the value forfeited.
bebased on or be transitioned onto the same elements of the remuneration package as the other executive directors, in line Recruitment of the Chairman and non-executive directors withthe policy table presented above.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable detailed in the relevant table above.
pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy table above.
However, at recruitment, the Committee would retain the discretion Disclosure toflex the balance between annual and long-term incentives and the The remuneration structure of any new director will be disclosed in measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the atimely manner and, as far as possible, in the relevant RNS notification intention that a significant portion would be delivered in shares.
at the time of appointment.
In the next remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale At recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional circumstances, forthe relevant arrangements.
bedelivered via alternative structures, again with the intention that EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS The key employment terms and conditions of the current executive directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Notice Period months Termination payment Treatment of remuneration Six months by executive and 12 months May terminate employment by making Participation in all incentive plans, Company policy: byCompany.
aPayment in Lieu Of Notice PILON includingthe annual bonus and the No fixed term contracts equivalent to value of base salary and PSP, isnon-contractual.
In a recruitment scenario, an executive benefits including pension allowance director may initially be hired on a contract Outstanding awards will be treated in inrespect of the notice period.
requiring the Company to provide 24 accordance with the relevant plan rules.
months notice which then reduces, pro-rata over the course of the first year of the contract, to requiring 12 months notice to terminate the contract.
Does not contain PILON clause.
In line with Company policy.
Richard Glynn Effective date of If the Company terminates his employment, the termination payment would be contract is 22 April 2010 calculated on a damages basis which would reflect Richard Glynns loss as a Contract pre-dates result of termination and his legal obligation current policy to mitigate loss.
The Company would seek to keep the cost ofany departure to a minimum, taking into account contractual obligations and the circumstances of his departure.
Ian Bull Effective date of Also contains additional specific provisions requiring a reduction in PILONpayment in contract is 4 July 2011 the event he finds alternative employment during the 12-month notice period.
60 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for an executive director.
The Remuneration Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations: a being consistent with the Policy set out in this report: or b if they are inconsistent having been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevant legislation.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards.
Other payments which may be made as a result of loss of office include legal fees within an agreed maximum limit, outplacement counselling within an agreed maximum limit, payment for any outstanding accrued holiday and any other payments required by statute.
The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that there should be no reward for failure.
When exercising any discretion under the plans referred to below, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the individuals departure and his performance in the role.
Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for any other leaver Where a participant has a minimum of nine No bonus.
Annual Ill health and disability.
months full service in the relevant year a cash Bonus Plan Death.
This amount will normally be subject to the achievement of the financial and Redundancy.
individual objectives set at the beginning of the planyear.
Any payment will be following the end Any other scenario in which the Remuneration ofthe relevant financial year and will normally Committee determines good leaver treatment bepro-rated for time served during the year, is justified.
unlessthe Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Any amounts which would have ordinarily been deferred into the deferred bonus plan may be paid in cash at the same time.
The Remuneration Committee, however, has the ability to exercise its discretion to pay a bonus as itconsiders appropriate.
Awards will vest on cessation of employment.
Unvested awards lapse Deferred infull if cessation of Bonus Plan Death.
employment occurs prior to the vesting date.
Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified.
Performance Injury, ill-health or disability.
Awards will vest at the normal vesting date, unless Unvested awards lapse the Remuneration Committee determines that infull if cessation of Share Plan Death.
employment occurs during In either case, awards will vest to the extent the performance period.
thatperformance conditions have been satisfiedand on a time apportioned basis, unless Retirement by agreement with the employing the Remuneration Committee determines company.
Transfer of whole or part of the business bywhich the participant is employed outside theGroup.
Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified other than summary dismissal.
Leaver treatment under these plans will be in accordance with HMRC rules.
All-employee share plans Ladbrokes Injury, ill-health or disability.
Awards will vest, subject to the applicable Unvested awards lapse performance conditions and the retention of the infull if cessation of Growth Plan Death.
related investment shares, either on the normal employment occurs during not part of forwardvesting date or earlier if the Remuneration the performance period.
Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee so determines.
The award will be looking policy Committee determines good leaver treatment timepro-rated by reference to the performance is justified other than summary dismissal.
period, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
The exception to this is upon death, when awardsshall vest immediately to the extent theRemuneration Committee determines is appropriate taking into account the period of timethat has elapsed since grant and the extentto which performance conditions havebeen satisfied.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 CORPORATE EVENTS AFFECTING DISCRETIONARY SHARE PLANS Ladbrokes discretionary share plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as approved by shareholders and amended from time to time in accordance with these rules.
In particular, the plan rules provide for adjustments in certain circumstances.
For example, awards may be adjusted in the event of share capital, demerger, special dividend, reorganisation or similar event.
In the event of a change in control or winding up of the Company, existing share awards under these plans will be treated as follows: Plan Treatment in an event of a change of control Vest in full on the date on which the change in control occurs.
Deferred Bonus Plan Performance Vest in line with the plan rules to the extent the Remuneration Committee determines the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time-apportioned basis, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion to determine otherwise.
Share Plan Will vest on or immediately prior to the relevant event in line with the plan rules to the extent the Remuneration Committee Ladbrokes determines is appropriate taking into account the extent to which performance conditions are achieved and the time elapsed Growth Plan since grant, or on basis as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
Awards under the share plans may vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up of the Company.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The non-executive directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period After the initial term, non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Whilst appointed for a three-year term, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination The appointment of a Chairman or a non-executive director is terminable without notice by either the Company or the director.
Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to any compensation upon leaving office.
AVAILABILITY OF DOCUMENTATION All executive directors service contracts and the letters of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015 from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
ILLUSTRATION OF OUR FORWARD-LOOKING REMUNERATION POLICY In support of the remuneration philosophy, Ladbrokes remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The following charts provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for executive directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
In line with the regulations, the illustrations show the potential remuneration levels under Ladbrokes forward-looking remuneration policy.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
62 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chief Executive PSP Fixed pay Chief Financial PSP Fixed pay officer Annual Bonus officer Annual Bonus 000s Minimum On-target Maximum 000s Minimum On-target Maximum performance performance performance performance performance performance 3000 3000 2,735 1,015 2500 2500 2000 2000 1,623 1,580 986 600 254 1500 1500 592 965 1000 1000 520 150 734 312 734 734 503 500 500 503 503 0 0 0 % % Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay 100% 46% 27% Fixed pay 100% 52% 31% Annual bonus 0% 38% 36% Annual bonus 0% 32% 32% PSP 0% 16% 37% PSP 0% 16% 37% Total 100% 100% 100% Total 100% 100% 100% Plan Assumptions used Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits cash allowance in lieu of pension All performance scenarios Base salary salary effective as at 1 March 2015 Benefits estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2015 based on 2014 value Pensions estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2015 based on 2015 salary Minimum No pay-out under the annual bonus performance No vesting under the PSP 60% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements On-target performance 25% vesting under the PSP see note 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements Maximum performance 100% vesting under the PSP see note Note: PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumption.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
The Chief Executive Officer chart is based on Richard Glynns package as the incumbent Chief Executive Officer at the time this report was released and a new Chief Executive Officer was being sourced by Ladbrokes.
The scenario chart for the Chief Financial Officer does not include the 2015 temporary monthly allowance of 10,000 as this will only be paid to Ian Bull from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015.
Variable pay Fixed pay Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder conditions of colleagues throughout the Group when determining views when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy, remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Information and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided in regular updates changes to our remuneration policy.
For example, at the end of 2014 to the Remuneration Committee.
This takes the form of a comparison and start of 2015, we consulted our major shareholders on the of reward elements across all main workforce groups, updates on total proposed revisions to the PSP in 2015. reward communications and details of business wide reviews such as The Remuneration Committee also considers shareholder feedback annual bonus awards and salary increases.
received in relation to an AGM at its next meeting following the AGM.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee pays specific attention to the general level of salary increases and bonus outcomes within the MINOR AMENDMENTS TO POLICY wider population.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not directly consult with our which do not have a material advantage to directors, to aid in its colleagues as part of the process of determining executive pay, the operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval Committee does receive feedback from colleague surveys and takes fora revised version of this Policy.
this into account when reviewing executive pay.
In addition, a significant number of our colleagues are shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Audited information The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 66 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2014, with prior year figures also shown.
Cash allowance Long-term Salary and fees Benefits in lieu of pension Annual bonus incentives All figures shown in 000 a b c d e Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Executive Directors Richard Glynn 580 580 23 24 131 131 3,929 734 4,664 Ian Bull 400 397 13 14 90 89 1,552 503 2,052 f Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Peter Erskine 250 250 250 250 John Jarvis 17 57 17 57 John Kelly 60 60 60 60 Sly Bailey 50 50 50 50 Christine Hodgson 50 50 50 50 David Martin 60 9 60 9 Richard Moross 50 50 50 50 Darren Shapland 60 60 60 60 Methodology a Salary and fees this represents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive directors services 2013: nil.
b Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Executive director benefits include private healthcare for the executive and his family, critical illness, disability and life assurance, injury in service benefits, allowance for tax advice and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
c Cash allowance in lieu of pension executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 22.5% of salary.
d Annual bonus this reflects the nil bonus awarded in respect of the performance year for 2013 and 2014.
Consequently there is no deferred bonus awarded for either 2013 or 2014.
Further details are provided on page 64. e Long-term incentives this figure represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year.
PSP: The 2014 figure reflects that no shares vested under the 2014 awards under the PSP.
The 2013 values in this column relating to awards with the performance period from 1 January 2011 to 31December 2013 have been revised from last years report, based on the actual share price of 151.61p at the date of vesting on 25 February 2014 and inclusive of the supplementary shares delivered inrespect of dividend equivalents Richard Glynn: 192,080, Ian Bull: 139,635 LGP: The 2014 figure reflects that there was no additional vesting under the second performance test ending on 29 June 2014.
The 2013 figure includes the 40.7% of maximum opportunity earned by executive directors including proportions of awards deferred and released in 2014 and 2015.
Further details in respect of the achievement of performance conditions are provided on page 65.
Due to a clerical error, Ian Bull was awarded 7,044 more dividend equivalent shares in 2013.
This was rectified by reducing the number of dividend equivalent shares he received in 2014 by 7,044.
The 2013 single figure number has been modified accordingly to reflect this reduction.
f The Chairman receives a fee of 250,000 per annum.
Other non-executive directors receive a basic fee of 43,000 per annum.
The senior independent director receives a basic fee of 60,000 per annum.
Additional fees are payable for the role of Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committee at a rate of 17,000 per annum and for membership of the Audit and or Remuneration Committee atarate of 7,000 per annum if not Chairman.
David Martin was appointed as a non-executive director on 31 October 2013.
His fee is paid to Arriva plc by mutual agreement.
64 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 50% of the award three-year EPS growth ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES IN RESPECT OF THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE Annual bonus Three-year EPS growth The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to executive directors in respect of 2014: EPS growth EPS growth % vesting 6% p. a.
2014 annual bonus As % of 2014 salary Richard Glynn 0 0% 100 Ian Bull 0 0% 60% of the 2014 annual bonus was based on profit for the year excluding profit from High Rollers and exceptional items.
40% of the 2014 annual bonus was based on individual objectives, which are primarily financial in nature.
Furthermore, the individual objectives element of the bonus remains subject to a profit underpin.
25 2014 profit before tax and net finance expense and excluding High Rollers and exceptional items was 125.4m.
This meant that the profit 0 underpin was not met, therefore bonus payout was nil despite positive individual performance ratings for both the Chief Executive Officer Actual performance Vesting as % of element andthe Chief Financial Officer.
Relative TSR 11 out of 13 companies 0% Performance Share Plan EPS growth -13.0% per annum 0% The PSP value shown in the single figure table relates to the 2012 Total vesting 0% of maximum award, for which the performance period was 1 January 2012 to There will be nil vesting of the PSP awards made in 2012.
The performance conditions for this award are set out below: 50% of the award three-year relative TSR performance against apeer group of sectoral peer companies.
The peer group for the 2012 award is set out below: 888 Holdings OPAP Boyd Gaming Paddy Power Bwin PartyGaming Punch Taverns Enterprise Inns Rank Group Gtech Whitbread Mitchells & Butlers William Hill Three-year TSR growth vs. sectoral peer growth Relative TSR growth % vesting Median Upper quartile 100 25 0 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Ladbrokes Growth Plan maintained for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days.
Therefore, at The LGP is a one-off long-term incentive plan where awards were the second performance test on 29 June 2014, a share price of above made under this plan in 2010 to the Chief Executive Officer and in 220.7 pence had to be maintained for a period of 30 consecutive 2011to other participants.
The performance period for all awards dealing days since 29 June 2013 for any additional vesting to occur.
isfive years which began in June 2010 and ends in June 2015.
Performance out-turn Aportion of the award was eligible for vesting after three years in A share price above 220.7 pence was not maintained at any point 2013 first performance test with a further portion eligible for vesting between 29 June 2013 and 29 June 2014, therefore there was no atthe end of year four June 2014, second performance test and year vesting under the second performance test in 2014. five June 2015, third performance test if performance targets have notbeen fully met at previous performance tests.
The performance conditions for this award are set out below: SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR Performance Share Plan awards Share price maintained for a period of Percentage of the 30 consecutive dealing days award vesting For 2014, PSP awards are granted over Ladbrokes shares with 200 pence 25% thenumber of shares under award determined by reference to Between 200 pence and 297 pence Pro rata apercentage of base salary.
297 pence 100% Performance for these awards is measured over the three financial years from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
They are subject Straight line vesting operates between these points.
tothe same performance conditions as the 2013 PSP awards which The first performance test on 29 June 2013 resulted in 40.7% vesting are detailed on page 64. of the maximum opportunity as a share price of 220.7 pence was The following table provides details of the awards made under the PSP on 19 August 2014.
End of Number Face value Face value Threshold vesting Maximum vesting performance Type of award of shares % of salary % of face value % of face value period Richard Glynn 759,958 1,015,000 175% Performance 31 December 25% 100% Ian Bull shares 449,236 600,000 150% 2016 Face value has been calculated using the five day average share price prior to the date of grant of 133.6 pence.
Share Incentive Plan awards PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved There were no payments to past directors in 2014. all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
During 2014, Richard Glynn and Ian Bull participated in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the plan during 2014, Richard Glynn PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE purchased 646 shares and 475 bonus shares were awarded to him There were no payments to directors for loss of office in 2014. along with 175 shares in respect of the dividends paid by the Company on 15 May 2014 and 13 November 2014, Ian Bull purchased 647shares and 475 bonus shares were awarded to him along with 94shares in respect of the dividends paid by the Company on 15May2014 and 13 November 2014.
66 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS Directors shareholdings and share ownership guidelines The Companys shareholding guidelines require executive directors tobuild up over time a personal shareholding equivalent in value to atleast one years base salary.
Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
Shares which the executive directors hold outright and or vested shares under the Companys share plans count towards the requirement.
Unvested share awards only count towards the requirement if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
On this basis, both Richard Glynn and Ian Bull have met the Companys shareholding requirement in full.
Unexercised Interests in share interests in Shares owned Interests in share incentive schemes, option schemes, Shares outright at incentive schemes, subject to without owned outright at 31 December 2014 without performance performance performance 31 December 2013 or earlier date of conditions at conditions at conditions at or later date of Actual shareholding 1 2 3 4 Director cessation 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 appointment % of base salary 5 Richard Glynn 456,751 2,153,911 4,192,657 1,184,713 284,259 218% 5 Ian Bull 676,505 286,709 1,959,063 14,528 351,288 199% Peter Erskine 158,095 118,095 Sly Bailey 10,000 10,000 Richard Moross 5,000 5,000 David Martin 55,000 Darren Shapland 35,000 25,000 John Kelly 28,041 18,041 Christine Hodgson 15,000 15,000 1 Includes partnership shares and dividend shares under the SIP.
2 This relates to shares awarded under the DBP, the earned portion of the LGP and bonus shares awarded under the SIP.
3 This relates to outstanding shares awarded under the PSP and the portion of LGP awards which has not yet been earned.
4 This relates to unexercised nil-cost options under the 2010 Share Award Plan and options under the SAYE scheme.
5 The following changes to the executive directors share interests have occurred between 31 December 2014 and 5 February 2015: 131 shares were purchased by both Richard Glynn and 130 shares by Ian Bull under the Share Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of this Plan, one bonus share was also awarded for every share purchased.
For the purposes of determining executive director shareholdings, the individuals salary at the year end and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2014 has been used.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Six-year TSR performance Ladbrokes FTSE 250 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE250, the FTSE250 index 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec provides an appropriate indication of market movements against 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 which to benchmark the Companys performance.
The chart on 400 theright summarises the Companys TSR performance against the 350 FTSE250 index over the six-year period to 31 December 2014.
300 The table below the chart summarises the Chief Executive Officers 250 single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and 200 long-term incentive vesting levels as a percentage of maximum 150 opportunity over the six-year period to 31 December 2014.
100 50 0 Chief Executive 1 Officer 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Christopher Bell 0.9m 0.7m Chief Executive Officer single figure of remuneration m Richard Glynn 1.0m 1.2m 2.5m 4.7m 0.7m Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 76% 50% 50% 0% 0% 2 Long-term incentive vesting out-turn includes PSP and LGP opportunity, shown as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 0% 0% 82% 38% 0% 1 The above number for Christopher Bell in 2010 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Richard Glynn was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 22 April 2010 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
2 Increases in total compensation in 2012 and 2013 have been as a result of increased pay-outs under the Companys long-term incentive plans, as a result of meeting the relevant performance targets, e. g. PSP and LGP.
Richard Glynn has not received any changes to salary or cash allowance in lieu of pension since his appointment in April 2010.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2015 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing EXECUTIVEOFFICER to implement the remuneration policy in 2015.
The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits including cash allowance in lieu of pension and annual bonus for the Chief Although Richard Glynn will be leaving in 2015, the Committee is Executive Officer and that of a representative group of the Companys proposing to pay him as detailed below until his departure date.
Leaverarrangements are yet to be decided.
The proposed package for the incoming Chief Executive Officer will be developed during For these purposes, we have used all UK-based colleagues as therecruitment process.
Both sets of arrangements will be disclosed thecomparative group, as this represents the most appropriate to shareholders in due course.
comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Chief Executive Officer.
Base salary In determining salary increases for 2015, the Remuneration Committee % change in took into consideration business performance, affordability and pay benefits including % change cash allowance % change in and conditions across the Group and determined that there will be no in base salary in lieu of pension annual bonus increase in 2015.
2014 v 2013 2014 v 2013 2014 v 2013 Chief Executive Officer 0% 0% 0% The table below shows base salaries for 2015: All UK-based colleagues 2% 0% 0% Base salary from 1 March 2015 Richard Glynn 580,000 Ian Bull 400,000 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY The chart below illustrates the current year and prior year overall Ian Bull will also receive a temporary allowance of 10,000 per month expenditure on pay and dividends paid.
from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015 for additional operational responsibilities which he will undertake relating to Richard Glynns Relative importance of the spend on pay 2013 2014 departure and until the new Chief Executive Officer is fully on-boarded.
This allowance will cease with immediate effect if Ian Bull resigns during this period.
1 m Overall expenditure Dividends Benefits on employee pay Benefits are generally set at an appropriate market competitive level, taking into account a number of factors including market practice for 300 0.76% comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators.
278.4 276.3 There will be no changes to the benefits package received by executive directors in 2015.
250 Cash allowance in lieu of pension The executive directors have elected to receive a cash allowance of 200 22.5% of salary in lieu of pension, and there will be no change to cash allowance levels for 2015.
The table below shows cash allowances for 2015: 150 2015 cash allowance in lieu of pension %ofsalary Richard Glynn 130,500 22.5% Ian Bull 110,250 22.5% 100 0% Ian Bulls 2015 cash allowance in lieu of pension will be based on his 81.4 81.5 salary and the temporary allowance and will be applied from 1 March 50 2015 to 30 November 2015.
0 The figures presented have been calculated on the following basis: Overall expenditure on pay represents total staff costs.
Dividends dividends paid or declared to be paid in respect ofthe year.
1 Total dividend per share FY2014: 8.9 pence 2013: 8.9 pence 68 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus 25% of the award will be based on three-year The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 170% of base Free Cash Flow performance: salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 130% of base salary and FCF performance Percentage of the award vesting thetemporary allowance which will be paid between 1 March and Less than 273.9m 0% 30November for the Chief Financial Officer in2015.
273.9m 25% 345.3m 100% The table below provides further information on the performance measures against which performance will be measured: Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Relative weighting % of maximum bonus opportunity Free Cash Flow for the purposes of the Plan is defined as the net 1 Financial operating profit 60% cashflow from operating activities plus dividends received from Individual mainly specific financial targets 40% jointventures and associates, less income taxes paid, net capital expenditure and net interest payments including bond coupons.
Profit is the key financial measure.
Profit attributed to High Rollers is FCFexcludes distribution of dividends, repayment of debt and excluded from the profit performance calculations for annual bonus mergerand acquisitionactivity.
The individual objective element of the bonus remain subject to a profit underpin.
25% of the award will be based on performance against responsible gambling measures.
At this stage, the Committee considers that the annual bonus targets The measures in relation to this element of the award will be remain commercially sensitive.
This is because of the close link determined and independently measured and assessed by the between the selected performance measures and strategy.
However, SocialResponsibility Committee through a set of KPIs.
These in next years Annual Report, we commit to providing shareholders KPIswillreflect the GB Gambling Commissions objectives and withas much context as possible on performance against those regulatory and voluntary sector-level changes and our own initiatives.
targets and the resulting bonus out-turn rationale, within commercial For example Senet implementation and developing the use of data constraints.
Performance Share Plan These KPIs will be assessed over the three-year performance period Awards under the 2015 Performance Share Plan will be made in using three annual scorecards and the cumulative impact over the accordance with the approved policy, as detailed on page 56. same period.
25% of the award will be based on TSR percentage The Remuneration Committee and the Social Responsibility outperformance of six sector peers: Committee intend to disclose targets and the performance level TSR % outperformance of six sector attheend of the performance period.
As with all the measures under comparators Percentage of the award vesting the 2015 PSP the threshold performance will result in 25% of this Less than median 0% element of the PSP vesting.
100% The main differences between the 2014 PSP and 2015 PSP areasfollows: Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
a move from two measures to four measures.
This helps ensurethe awards recognise achievement against a broad The peer group for the 2015 award is set out below: rangeof transparent and stretching measures which is linked 888 Holdings Paddy Power totheCompanys strategy including responsible gambling: Betfair Sportech TSR will be assessed on outperformance of a refined, highly Bwin PartyGaming William Hill relevant group of gaming and leisure companies which are facing the same specific sector issues and changes as Ladbrokes: If the peer group for 2015 was to fall below five companies i. e. in the event of takeovers, a peer will be selected from a reserve list of EPS will be based on a three-year cumulative target rather than companies which includes for 2015, GTech, Betsson, International point-to-point CAGR growth.
This has the advantage of not Game Technology, Rank Group and Playtech to raise the peer group rewarding volatility, reducing vesting sensitivity to final year back to a minimum of five companies.
Thereplacement company will performance, and facilitating mid-term tracking of performance be effective over the entire performance period.
which is more motivational and retentive to participants: inclusion of a second financial measure which will be Free 25% of the award will be based on three-year cumulative CashFlow in 2015 which reinforces the importance of capital EPSperformance: management.
EPS performance Percentage of the award vesting inclusion of a strategic measure which will be measurement Less than 29.0 pence 0% against responsible gambling KPIs in 2015 which reflects the 29.0 pence 25% continued importance of these activities to the Company.
37.0 pence 100% Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Cumulative EPS performance excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Non-executive director remuneration During the year, the Committee received independent advice on The table below shows the NED fee structure as at 1 January 2015. executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP and Kepler Associates from 6 August 2014.
Kepler Associates were appointed 2015 fees tothe role of independent advisers to the Committee following Chairman of the Board fee 250,000 acompetitive tendering process in 2014.
Both Kepler Associates Senior Independent Director 60,000 andDeloitte LLP are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Board member 43,000 Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be Additional fee for Audit or Remuneration foundonthe Remuneration Consulting Groups website at Committee Chairman 17,000 www.
Deloitte LLP also provided Additional fee for membership of the Audit and or Remuneration Committee 7,000 the Company with internal audit and miscellaneous tax and consulting services.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP in relation to advice provided Not payable to Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
Kepler Associates fees were There are no additional fees for membership of the Social 104,000 for 2014.
Services provided by remuneration consultants Responsibility Committee or the Nomination Committee.
include advice on remuneration packages for executives and non-executives, assistance with short and long-term incentive External appointments reviews, support with shareholder related matters and drafting the The Company recognises the benefits of executive directors taking Directors remuneration report as well as other ad-hoc advice related onexternal appointments as non-executive directors, subject to the to remuneration.
limitations set out in the Policy Report and to Committee approval.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Kepler With effect 1 September 2014, Ian Bull became a non-executive Associates and Deloitte LLP during the year and is satisfied that it director of St Modwen Properties PLC.
For the period from hasbeen objective and independent.
1September 2014 until 31 December 2014, Ian received fees of 13,836, which he is allowed to retain.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to The table below outlines the result of the votes on the 2013 Directors directors remuneration Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM: The Ladbrokes Board entrusts the Committee with the responsibility for the remuneration policy in respect of executive directors and senior Number of executives and ensuring its ongoing appropriateness and relevance.
votes cast For Against Withheld In setting the remuneration for these groups, the Committee takes Remuneration 631,146,371 618,706,145 12,440,226 244,564 Policy 98.03% 1.97% intoaccount the pay and conditions of the wider workforce as a matter Annual Report 629,767,222 626,555,746 3,211,476 1,623,307 of course.
on Remuneration 99.49% 0.51% The table below shows the Committee members during the year and The Committee is pleased to note over 98% and 99% votes in favour their attendance at Committee meetings: ofthe 2013 Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration, Entitled to attend Attended respectively, at the AGM held in 2014.
Sly Bailey 6 6 On behalf of the Board Christine Hodgson 6 6 Richard Moross 6 6 David Martin Peter Erskine 6 5 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee David Martin 6 6 25 February 2015 The Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the HR Director Reward & Resourcing attend Committee meetings byinvitation, other than when their personal remuneration is beingdiscussed.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary totheCommittee.
70 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 71 Statement of directors 101 18 Trade and other receivables responsibilities 101 19 Cash and cash equivalents 72 Independent auditors report to the 101 20 Trade and other payables members of Ladbrokes plc 102 21 Provisions 78 Consolidated income statement 102 22 Interest bearing loans 79 Consolidated statement and borrowings of comprehensive income 103 23 Financial risk management 80 Consolidated balance sheet objectives and policies 81 Consolidated statement 105 24 Financial instruments and of changes in equity fair value disclosures 82 Consolidated statement 108 25 Net debt of cash flows 109 26 Share capital 83 Notes to the consolidated 109 27 Employee share financial statements ownership plans 83 1 Corporate information 110 28 Notes to the statement 83 2 Basis of preparation of cash flows 83 3 Changes in accounting policies 111 29 Retirement benefit schemes 83 4 Summary of significant 113 30 Share-based payments accounting policies 115 31 Commitments and contingencies 89 5 Segment information 116 32 Related party disclosures 90 6 Exceptional items 118 33 Business combinations 91 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense 91 8 Finance expense and income 92 9 Staff costs 93 10 Income tax expense 94 11 Dividends 95 12 Earnings per share 96 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 97 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 98 15 Property, plant and equipment 99 16 Interest in joint venture 100 17 Interest in associates and other investments
