Laird PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report for the year to 31 December 2014 Annual Statement Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2014 which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board.
Context to the Remuneration Committees decisions 2014 was a successful year for our business with 8% organic growth and, having now achieved six consecutive quarters of growth, we are seeing the results of the investment in our strategy, building a strong business anda clearly defined vision for capturing value for both our customers and investors.
This has been achieved over thepast two years under David Lockwoods leadership.
Performance against the Companys key performance indicators detailed on pages 18 and 19 and the financial highlights on page 3 shows the year on year increase in revenue and profit.
We believe that our new remuneration policy will play a key role in helping us to achieve our corporate goals and Jack Boyer in furthering the delivery of Lairds strategy and results.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2014 remuneration decisions Key decisions made by the Remuneration Committee during, and for, the financial year include: The increase in salary for David Lockwood of 6.67% to 480,000 p. a. in light of our strong corporate We believe that the new performance and his excellent leadership of the business.
The salary increase is consistent with the remuneration structure will continue pattern of increases across the organisation average to support and motivate our increase 7.91% in 2014 for all employees and 6.86% in 2013. executive directors in furthering The decision that the Chief Executive and Chief the Companys long-term strategic Financial Officer should receive an annual performance objectives, including the creation of bonus in respect of 2014 of 50% and 47.5% of base salary respectively reflects the good progress in the sustainable shareholder returns.
delivery of the strategy during the year see pages 87 and 88.
The remuneration decisions in relation to the departure of Jonathan Silver at the AGM on 8 May 2015.
In line with the Committees policy of transparency with shareholders, further detail is set out later in this report.
The support for a proposal by the executive team to introduce a plan for selected senior leaders known as the medium term incentive plan and a global employee share purchase plan.
Laird PLC 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 New Directors Remuneration Policy Looking forward to 2015 and beyond, in line with our commitment to shareholders in last years Directors Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee conducted a thorough review of our executive remuneration policy in 2014.
In formulating the new policy we were mindful of previous points raised by shareholders and the new policy incorporates a number of shareholder suggestions.
In shaping our new remuneration policy we conducted an extensive consultation exercise with the Companys top shareholders.
I had the benefit of meeting the Companys top 5 shareholders, as well as the Investment Association IA and Institutional Shareholder Services ISS and discussing directly with them the proposed changes.
In addition, I engaged with the next 8 largest shareholders.
I and the other members of the Remuneration Committee were extremely appreciative of the input received from shareholders as part of this process.
The key criteria for the review were: Review criteria 1.
Ensure Lairds remuneration policy, Lairds strategy for accelerated growth and the creation of long-term shareholder value are aligned.
Strengthen the link between reward and sustained performance and recognise exceptional performance appropriately when this occurs.
Provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components, with a significant element of long term variable pay given the long term nature of the business.
Simplify the policy overall and bring it in line with emerging best practice where appropriate.
The following table sets out the proposed changes and their relationship to the review criteria: Changes Review Criteria Summary of changes 1 2 3 4 Increase annual bonus known as the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme maximum opportunity up 4 to150%of salary 1 Introduction of a deferral mechanism in the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme, whereby 3ofanybonus 4 4 4 payment will be deferred into shares for a three year period Removal of the Market Value Options from the remuneration policy and replacement with performance shares with an award maximum of up to 200% of salary new awards to be granted underthe 2015 Long-Term 4 4 Incentive Plan the 2015 LTIP Corresponding amendments to the performance targets for the awards to be made under the 2015 LTIP 4 4 toensure that maximum levels of vesting are only delivered for exceptional performance Introduction of a two year holding period for awards granted under the 2015 LTIP in line with bestpractice 4 4 inthe market Malus and clawback policies have been put in place and or revised for both the Annual Performance Incentive 4 Scheme and the 2015 LTIP in line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice in this area An increased shareholding requirement increased from 100% to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive 4 4 Executive incentives and link to Company KPIs The following table sets out a number of the Companys KPIs and how their satisfaction is encouraged by the new incentive framework introduced as part of the proposed new policy: KPI PBT Performance Satisfaction of Sustainable Profit Growth Maximise Total Key Strategic Objectives EPS Shareholder Returns Annual Performance 4 4 Incentive Scheme 2015 Long-Term 4 4 Incentive Plan Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued We believe that the new remuneration structure will continue to support and motivate our executive directors, in furthering the Companys long-term strategic objectives including the creation of sustainable shareholder returns.
Furthermore, we are satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivise undue risk-taking or reward underperformance.
Wider approach Since 2013, the Board, led by the Chief Executive, has been transforming the remuneration strategy of the Company to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership.
Because of the numerous jurisdictions Laird operates in, some of these plans have taken time to mature.
During the year, two further remuneration arrangements were presented by the executive team to the Remuneration Committee for implementation in 2015.
Following significant discussion and review, these have been approved by the Committee and the Board.
For senior leaders excluding the executive directors, the Board has adopted a new incentive arrangement known as the Medium Term Incentive Plan MTIP.
Awards will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
The key performance condition is Earnings Per Share EPS growth over a three-year period.
Shares used to satisfy awards under the MTIP will be purchased on the market and therefore we are not seeking approval from shareholders to use new issue shares.
For all employees, the Board is intending to implement a new share purchase plan known as the International Share Purchase Plan or ISPP.
In order to meet juridisdictional requirements and to operate the plan most efficiently there is a requirement in a number of countries for a separate plan within this framework to be approved by shareholders.
In all cases the broad commercial terms will remain the same.
Under the new plans, all employees will have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions and will receive either additional shares free of charge or the right to purchase at a discount dependent on country of operation.
Approval is being sought at the 2015 Annual General Meeting to operate the new arrangements.
The remuneration arrangements operating across the Company for 2015 subject to relevant shareholder approvals are set out below.
In addition, the following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
Laird PLC 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objectives Financial Strategic & Long-term Share Performance Operational Value Creation Ownership Plan Purpose Eligibility Profit & Goals encouraged Earnings per through equity Share retention To broaden share The majority of ISPP or country ownership and share in employees depending 4 4 equivalent corporate success over on country the medium term All employees not in any To share in annual Profit share scheme other performance or 4 success above target management scheme Incentivise and Managers, senior Annual bonus reward short-term managers and senior 4 4 performance leaders Conditional Broaden share Share Awards Senior managers and ownership, alignment 4 4 annual with threesenior leaders and retention year vesting Conditional Broaden share High-potential Share Awards ownership, retention employees, high- 4 4 ad hoc with threeand incentive performing employees year vesting Broaden share MTIP three-year ownership, alignment, Senior leaders 4 4 4 4 performance condition retention, long-term performance Incentivise and reward short-term Annual Performance performance plus Executive directors 4 4 4 4 Incentive Scheme retention through deferral Incentivise and Executive directors and 2015 LTIP reward long-term 4 4 4 4 selected others performance In addition to the above, in 2014, the Company introduced a points-based recognition scheme under which any employee can recognise a colleague and propose the award of points at differing levels.
Points are accumulated to purchase catalogue-style rewards.
The obvious safeguards are deployed to avoid abuse.
Participation in the programme since launch is over 35%.
Shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM Resolutions to approve the new Directors Remuneration Policy, the Annual Report on Remuneration, the rules of the 2015 LTIP and the new all employee share plans will be put to this years Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2015.
Details of voting at last years Annual General Meeting, where 94.74% and 97.95% of those voting supported the resolutions to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration respectively, are set out on page 95 of this report.
We remain committed to hearing, and take an active interest in, your views as shareholders.
If you would like to discuss any further aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
I can be contacted at j. boyer@laird-plc.
Jack Boyer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2015 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Our remuneration at a glance The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy supports Lairds strategic drivers, which are set out on pages 16 and17.
The Policy and its use of performance metrics appropriately support shareholder value creation by delivering sustainable performance consistent with the strategic drivers and appropriate risk management.
Summary of New Policy and key changes from the Old Policy Element New Policy Summary Maximum opportunity Summary of changes description from Old Policy Base salaries are set at a level In normal circumstances, where No change in policy.
Base salary to recognise the market value appropriate, annual increases are of the role, the performance of made in line with the average of the individual, the individuals employees salary increases.
experience and responsibilities and pay and conditions throughout the Company.
Either a contribution to a personal Pension contribution or cash No change in policy.
Pension and pension scheme or the Companys allowance in lieu of pension benefits benefits defined contribution pension up to 25% of salary and levels of scheme: or cash allowance in lieu benefits are defined by market rates.
Annual bonus is payable each year 150% of salary.
Incentive opportunity has been Annual bonus subject to performance against a increased from 100% to 150% scorecard consisting of financial of salary.
Mandatory deferral of 1 3rd 1 3rd of any award deferred into into shares for three years and shares for a period of three years.
the introduction of malus and clawback.
Performance shares known as 200% of base salary.
Market Value Options element Long term LTIP Awards vest subject to of the package removed and Incentives the achievement of relative Total replaced with single award of Shareholder Return and Earnings performance shares.
Two-year per Share targets at the end of a holding period introduced.
New malus and clawback rules introduced.
200% of salary for the Chief n a Increased from 100% of salary.
Up to 200% of salary requirement for other Executive directors.
Full details of the new Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the rationale for the changes to the Remuneration Policy are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Laird PLC 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme outcomes for 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: Bonus awards for 2014 reflects the good progress in delivering the strategy during the year.
The Remuneration Committee determined that a bonus payment equal to 50% and 47.5% of salary would be paid to David Lockwood and Jonathan Silver respectively following an assessment of the 2014 corporate scorecard, as set out below, and taking into account Lairds underlying financial performance and also individual performance.
Measure Targets Outcome 1 Maximum bonus for this element payable on 62.62m of bonus PBT achieved.
27.5% Underlying PBT achievement of underlying PBT of 65.4m.
of salary payable for both Executive directors.
Management of trade working capital, taking into Targets partially achieved.
5% of salary Working capital metrics account Days Sales Outstanding, Days Payable payable for both Executive directors.
Outstanding and inventory turns against those See detail on page87.
Examples of targets include: Targets partially achieved.
17.5% of Strategic objectives salary payable to the Chief Executive To produce a group level strategy for the next and 15% of salary payable to the Chief Weighting 20% 3-5 years.
To demonstrate an improvement in Environmental Health & Safety performance.
Drive One Laird revenue synergies from the business units product lines.
Achieve the finance business partnering model.
The achievement of a medium to long-term debt financing.
The Underlying PBT has been adjusted for certain foreign exchange results giving a lower PBT for the bonus calculation.
Although not required to do so under the Rules of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme, David Lockwood has advised the Committee that he intends to use the net proceeds of his bonus in respect of 2014 to purchase shares in the Company as soon as practicable after the announcement of the Companys Results on 3 March 2015.
Jonathan Silver, who will be retiring in May 2015, has already exceeded the shareholding requirement and will therefore not purchase any additional shares.
2014 single total figure of remuneration for executive directors The table below summarises the 2014 and 2013 single total figure of remuneration: Pension Base Taxable Annual Long-term Cash in lieu of 1 2 Executive director 000 salary benefits bonus incentives pension Total David Lockwood 2014 465 18 240 116 839 2013 438 14 270 109 831 3 Jonathan Silver 2014 345 21 164 673 138 1,341 3 2013 341 21 173 498 148 1,181 Notes 1.
Benefits include a car allowance, or car and fuel, and private medical insurance.
David Lockwoods taxable benefits for 2014 also include a sum of 3,757 where the Company paid for his wife to accompany him on an overseas business trip.
The value of long-term incentives is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the date the performance conditions are met or the minimum period for holding is met.
This includes the cash in lieu of pension amount and the single pension figure set out on page 89.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued 2014 actual single figure versus remuneration policy The following charts show the actual single figure for remuneration for the executive directors against the remuneration policy scenarios applying for 2014: David Lockwood Jonathan Silver 000 000 1,611 1600 1600 584 36% 1,341 1400 1400 1,271 1,235 392 1200 1200 422 33% 365 29% 992 1000 1000 50% 839 450 28% 264 27% 281 800 800 293 24% 345 27% 240 29% 577 504 224 22% 600 600 164 12% 599 71% 577 100% 577 47% 577 36% 400 400 504 100% 504 51% 504 40% 504 38% 200 200 0 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Actual Single Minimum On-Target Maximum Actual Single Figure 2014 Figure 2014 Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP: intrinsic value of vested awards at grant Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP: intrinsic value of vested awards at grant LTIP LTIP: value delivered via share price growth LTIP LTIP: value delivered via share price growth In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations no allowance has been made for share price appreciation for Minimum, On-Target and Maximum scenarios.
Therefore, for comparison with the 2014 actual single figure LTI number which shows the value of an award at vesting the value has been separated to show the intrinsic value of the LTI awards at grant and the value delivered via share price growth over the three year performance period.
David Lockwoods actual fixed remuneration for 2014 was higher than the remuneration policy scenarios disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration Policy following the midyear increase to salary at the normal review date i. e. the Committees policy is to review salaries 1 July each year.
See page 78 of the 2013 Directors Remuneration Policy Report for full details of the assumptions used to calculate the Policy scenarios.
Total equity exposure at 31 December 2014 The following table and chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the executive directors at 31 December 2014: 2003 LTIP 2003 ESOP and 2013 LTIP interests Executive Interests subject to director Shareholding at 31 December 2014 conditions Vested but unexercised Total interests Shares Number in LTIPs required to of shares Number of Market ESOP held at be held % of required to beneficially Shareholding Nil-Cost Market Value Nil-Cost Value 31 December salary hold owned shares requirement Awards Options Awards Options 2014 1 David Lockwood 100% 154,340 25,077 No 545,093 545,093 1,090,186 Jonathan Silver 100% 110,932 682,573 Yes 429,538 322,154 172,803 924,495 Notes 1.
David Lockwood joined Laird in August 2012 and therefore has not yet had time to achieve the full holding.
It should be noted that under the new Policy the shareholding requirement for the Chief Executive will be increased to 200% of salary.
David Lockwood Shareholding requirement % of salary Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over Laird shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards Jonathan Silver Shareholding requirement % of salary Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over Laird shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% Laird PLC 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Committee and Advisors Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Members of the Committee during 2014 Number of meetings held during Number of tenure during meetings Director the year attended 1 Dr Martin Read 3 3 Paula Bell 5 5 Jack Boyer 5 5 Sir Christopher Hum 5 5 2 Nigel Keen 2 2 Professor Michael Kelly 5 5 Notes 1.
Appointed as a director on 28 February 2014.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Role of the Committee and activities The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for executive directors and the senior management and for setting the remuneration packages for each executive director.
The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration policy and packages for other senior members of staff.
The written Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website and from the Company on request.
The Committee held five meetings during the year.
Its activities during 2014 included approving the 2013 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: approving the framework for the 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: determining if performance conditions for Lairds long-term incentive arrangements had been met: reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference: approving the Directors Remuneration Report for approval by the Board: reviewing the base salaries of the executive directors and other senior executives: conducting a thorough review of the executive remuneration policy and incentive arrangements for all employees for 2015 and beyond: considering the remuneration decisions in relation to the departure of Jonathan Silver and the proposed remuneration for the new Chief Financial Officer.
Advisers to the Committee In September 2013, a competitive tender overseen by the Chairman of the Committee with input from the Chief Executive, Chairman of the Board and the Company Secretary was conducted with  LLP PwC appointed as independent advisers to the Committee.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
On this basis, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
PwC also provided the Company with tax advisory work and financial due diligence on an acquisition during the year.
The Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
The Committee also sought the views of the Chief Executive, David Lockwood, during the year.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends part of the meetings.
The Chief Executive may request that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive director and employees.
The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year were 141,900.
Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Implementation of the new policy for 2015 Subject to shareholder approval of the new Policy, it is the intention of the Committee to operate the Policy for 2015 as set out below.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2015 Executive directors The remuneration policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below: Salary The salary for the Chief Executive was increased from 450,000 p. a. to 480,000 p. a. with effect from 1 July 2014.
No salary increase was applied to Jonathan Silvers salary 345,000.
It is the Committees policy to review Executive directors salaries as at 1 July each year.
Any changes to salaries in 2015 will be in line with policy and disclosed in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme 2015 Details of the maximum and threshold bonus potentials along with the performance measures and their respective weightings for the year ending 31 December 2015 are set out below: Performance measure Bonus opportunity weighting % award Threshold Underlying % of Maximum profit before Strategic Executive director maximum % of salary tax objectives David Lockwood 20% 150% 70% 30% The Remuneration Committee considers that disclosing precise targets of profit and strategic objectives, which are commercially sensitive, for the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods where possible without compromising confidential matters so that shareholders can fully assess the basis forany payouts.
Two-thirds of the bonus award will be paid out in cash with the further one-third deferred into shares subject toafurther three year vesting period.
No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares.
Laird PLC 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2015 LTIP Awards Details of the maximum LTIP Awards i. e. performance share awards to be made under the 2015 LTIP for which the Company is seeking approval at the AGM on 8 May 2015 are set out below.
If approved, awards will be made following the AGM.
Maximum opportunity % salary Performance measure Weighting % award Performance target Vesting level 200% for the Chief Executive Total Shareholder Return 50% Upper Quintile Full Vesting relative to the FTSE 250 Median to Upper Quintile Pro-rata on a straightexcluding financial services line basis between 20% sector companies and and full Vesting investment trusts Below Median Nil Average Annual Growth 50% 13% p. a.
Full Vesting in Continuing Earnings Between 5% and Pro-rata on a straightPerShare 13% p. a. line basis between 10% and full Vesting 5% p. a.
Threshold 10% Vesting Awards will be subject to performance measures over a three year period.
A two year holding period will apply following the three year vesting period for LTIP Awards granted to the executive directors.
Pension Details of pension contributions for the year ending 31 December 2015 are set out below: Executive director Pension contribution David Lockwood 25% of base pay Non-executive directors The following table sets out the fee rates for the non-executive directors from 1 January 2014 and those rates at 1 January 2015: 1 January 1 January 2014 2015 % change 1 Chairmans Fee 165,000 165,000 0 Non-executive directors fee 44,000 44,000 0 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director or chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration Committees 7,000 7,000 0 Notes 1.
Dr Martin Read, who became Chairman with effect from the close of the 2014 AGM, is paid a fee of 165,000p.
The previous Chairman received a fee of 190,000 p. a.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the Report contains details of the Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Companys future remuneration payments.
The policy is intended to apply for three years.
The policy described in this part, subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 8 May 2015, will apply from that date.
The policy part will be displayed on the Companys website, in the Investor Relations section, immediately after the 2015 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has established the policy on the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Board has established the policy on the remuneration of the other nonexecutive directors.
Previous awards granted under the old remuneration policy will be honoured.
Executive director remuneration policy The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for executive directors: Objective and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link to strategy and assessment Base salary Core element of Salaries are reviewed annually, and Annual rate for each executive Not applicable.
remuneration, set any changes normally take effect director is set out for 2015 on at a level which from 1 July.
is sufficiently When determining the salary of The previous column sets out competitive to the executives the Committee the factors that will be taken into recruit and retain takes into consideration: consideration in determining the management of the salary.
appropriate calibre the levels of base salary and experience for similar positions In normal circumstances, where to achieve the with comparable status, appropriate, annual increases Companys business responsibility and skills, in are made in line with the average strategy.
organisations of broadly of employees salary increases, similar size and complexity, in unless the Committee determines particular the median salary otherwise.
levels of those comparable Any increase in salary for the companies within the FTSE executive directors will be 250 excluding investment benchmarked against the salary trusts and the FTSE All levels of the comparator groups set Share Technology Sector.
out in the previous column.
The Committee intends to review the list of companies Individuals who are recruited or each year and may add or promoted to the Board may, on remove companies from occasion, have their salaries set the group as it considers below the targeted policy level appropriate.
Any changes to until they become established in the comparator groups will their role.
In such cases subsequent be disclosed in the part of the increases in salary may be higher report setting out the operation than the average until the target of the policy for the future year: positioning is achieved.
the performance of the individual executive director: the individual executive directors experience and responsibilities: and pay and conditions throughout the Company.
No recovery provisions apply to base salary.
Laird PLC 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link to strategy and assessment Other benefits Provides a market Reviewed periodically to Benefit values vary year on year Not applicable.
ensure benefits remain market depending on premiums and the competitive.
maximum potential value is the cost of the provision of these benefits.
Benefits include: car and fuel or car allowance: life, personal accident, disability and health insurance: travel and Directors & Officers insurance: and other benefits as provided from time to time, for example where a director relocates.
No recovery provisions apply to benefits.
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme Incentivises the Annual Performance Incentive Maximum: 150% of salary.
Performance targets will be achievement of Scheme awards are granted set by the Committee annually Threshold performance: 20% of a range of shortannually following the signing of based on a range of financial maximum.
term performance the Report and Accounts usually and strategic measures, targets that are key in March.
including but not limited to: Participants may be entitled to to the success of dividends or dividend equivalents on Performance period is one underlying profit before tax the Company and the deferred shares representing the financial year with payout including interest: provides long-term dividends paid during the deferral determined by the Committee alignment with period.
the achievement of criteria following the year end, based shareholders through designed to assess and on achievement against a range the use of deferral.
drive performance against a of financial and non financial number of key, measurable targets including having regard to strategic, operational and environmental, health and safety corporate objectives for issues.
2 3rds of the bonus award will be The Committee has the paid out in cash with the further discretion to adjust targets or 1 3rd deferred into shares subject performance measures for any to a further three year vesting exceptional events that may period.
There are no further occur during the year.
performance targets on the deferred amount.
As well as determining the measures and targets, the Malus and clawback arrangements Committee will also determine are in place.
These are compliant the weighting of the various with the FRC UK Corporate measures to ensure that they Governance Code and in line with support the business strategy best practice in this area.
and objectives for the relevant year.
Further details on the measures for 2015 are set out on page 72.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Objective and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link to strategy and assessment Long-term incentives Incentivises the Subject to shareholder approval Maximum LTIP Awards are 200% of The performance measures achievement of at the AGM to be held on 8 May base salary.
for LTIP Awards are equally long-term financial 2015, under the 2015 Long-Term weighted between Total Vesting is dependent on service and performance and Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP the Shareholder Return TSR and performance measures.
sustainable returns Committee may award annual Earnings Per Share EPS.
to shareholders in a grants of performance share Participants may be entitled to TSR will be measured against way that aligns the awards in the form of conditional dividends or dividend equivalents companies in the FTSE 250 interests of executives awards or nil-cost options LTIP representing the dividends paid excluding Financial Services and shareholders.
Awards on an annual basis.
during the performance period on companies and Investment vested LTIP Awards.
LTIP awards under the 2015 Trusts.
LTIP will vest three years from 20% vesting for median the date of grant subject to the performance and 100% vesting achievement of the performance for upper quintile performance.
Average Annual Growth in A two year holding period will Continuing EPS 10% vesting apply following the three year for threshold performance and vesting period for LTIP Awards 100% vesting for maximum granted to the executive directors.
Malus and clawback arrangements The Committee has the are in place.
These are compliant discretion to adjust targets or with the FRC UK Corporate performance measures for any Governance Code and in line with exceptional events that may best practice in this area.
The Committee will review and set weightings and targets before each grant to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
No material change will be made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
Laird PLC 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Objective and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link to strategy and assessment Pension To aid retention The Company provides either The maximum pension contribution Not applicable.
and to provide a contribution to a personal or payment in lieu of pension is equal competitive levels of pension scheme: the Companys to 25% of base salary.
defined contribution scheme: or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits.
No recovery provisions apply to pension.
All-Employee Plans The purpose of these Depending on country of The limits for employees are set out Not applicable.
plans is to encourage operation, employees will have the in the appendices to the 2015 AGM all employees to opportunity to purchase shares in Notice of Meeting.
become shareholders the Company subject to certain in the Company restrictions and in return will and thereby align receive either additional shares or their interests with the right to purchase shares at a shareholders.
Shareholding policy To ensure that Executive directors are expected Shares up to a value of 200% of base Not applicable.
executive directors to retain, as shares, all of the aftersalary.
interests are aligned tax profit on the gains made on with those of the vesting of share awards and shareholders over a the exercise of share options, until longer time horizon.
they have acquired the necessary shares to meet their requirement.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the Future Policy Table Malus and clawback Term Detail Malus & clawback Both the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan include best practice malus and clawback provisions.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the Company: the assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the number of shares subject to an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of an award holder which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to employee fraud or gross misconduct: events or behaviour of an award holder have led to the censure of the Company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group Company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant award holder was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to him.
Malus will apply up to the date of the bonus determination and for 3 years from the date of the bonus determination for the deferred shares under the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme.
Clawback will apply for 3 years to the cash proportion from the date of the bonus determination.
Malus will apply for the 3 year period from grant to vesting with clawback applying for the 2 year period post vesting under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee is satisfied that the rules of the Plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback if required.
Performance measures and targets The short and long-term incentives have a number of different financial performance measures which the Committee believes provide a direct link to the Companys performance.
The Annual Performance Incentive Scheme contains specific strategic and operational objectives which provide a direct link to the Companys strategy, whilst the long-term performance incentive targets of TSR and EPS are considered to be appropriate measures for aligning the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders.
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial sensitivity of Lairds operations, disclosing precise targets for the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme in advance would not be in shareholders interests.
Except incircumstances where elements remain commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved andawards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis forany payouts.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Laird PLC 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Illustration of application of remuneration policy The chart below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Chief Executive based on our statedremuneration policy.
000 2,294 2500 2250 960 42% 2000 1,634 1750 1500 552 34% 1250 720 31% 1000 468 29% 614 750 500 614 100% 614 37% 614 27% 250 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows: Element Minimum On-Target Maximum Fixed Elements Fixed elements do not vary with performance and comprise: Base salary: Salary effective from 1 July 2014, 480,000 for David Lockwood Benefits: 14,000 for David Lockwood Cash in lieu of pension contributions: 25% of salary for David Lockwood 1 Annual Performance Incentive 0% 65% of maximum pay-out Maximum award Scheme Annual Bonus 2,3 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 0% Mid-point between threshold Maximum award LTIP and maximum pay-out 1 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: Maximum annual bonus is 150% of base salary for David Lockwood.
2 2015 LTIP Awards: 200% of salary for David Lockwood.
3 In accordance with the Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive director remuneration policy The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman whose remuneration is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board.
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for non-executive directors: Objective and link to the Operation Maximum potential value strategy Fees Core element of remuneration, Fee levels are sufficient to attract individuals with Current fees are set out on page 73. set at a level sufficient to attract appropriate knowledge and experience.
In normal circumstances, where and retain individuals with Non-executive directors are paid a base fee and additional appropriate, annual increases are appropriate knowledge and fees for chairmanship of Committees and the role of Senior made in line with the average of experience in organisations Independent Director.
In exceptional circumstances, employees salary increases, unless of broadly similar size and fees may also be paid for additional time spent on the the Board determines otherwise.
Companys business outside of the normal duties.
The Company will pay reasonable The Company currently does not pay committee expenses incurred by the Chairman membership fees but the Board reserves the right to do so and non-executive directors.
Reviewed annually with any changes generally effective from 1 January.
Any increases in fees will be determined based on time commitment and take into consideration level of responsibility and fees paid in other companies of comparable size and complexity i. e. median fee levels of comparable companies within the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the FTSE All Share Technology Sector.
The Committee intends to review the list of companies each year and may add or remove companies from the group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator groups will be disclosed in the part of the report setting out the operation of the policy for the future year.
Non-executive directors do not receive any variable remuneration element or receive any other benefits, other than being covered for disability benefits under the Companys insurance whilst travelling on Companybusiness.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
The remuneration package for any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the executive directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the employee.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Laird PLC 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Element Policy Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals benefits experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within Laird and will be consistent with the salary policy for existing executive directors.
The executive director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with Lairds benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension An executive director will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme, a contribution to Lairds defined contribution pension scheme, or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with Lairds policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Annual Bonus An executive director will be eligible to participate in the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the Committees discretion.
Long-Term An executive director will be eligible to participate in the Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan as set out in incentives the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under scheme rules at the Committees discretion.
Maximum Variable The maximum annual variable remuneration that an executive director can receive is normally limited to 350% Remuneration of salary Annual Performance Incentive Scheme and 2015 LTIP Awards.
Share buy-outs The Committees policy is to not provide buy outs as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee replacement awards determine to provide a share buy out replacement awards, the Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
Any previous outstanding share awards which the executive holds will be valued using a recognised valuation methodology by an independent party.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys then current long term incentive plan to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive is relocated from one work location to another, the Company will provide compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile in accordance with its normal relocation package for employees.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences: housing allowance: and schooling in accordance with the Companys normal relocation package for employees.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts and payment for loss of office When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice.
Notice periods will not be greater than 12 months.
The table below summarises the service contracts and letters of appointments for the directors.
Date of contract Notice period by Company Director letter of appointment and director Executive David Lockwood 9 July 2012 12 months Non-executive Dr Martin Read 28 February 2014 6 months Paula Bell 28 February 2012 N A Jack Boyer 2 May 2013 N A Sir Christopher Hum 4 December 2006 N A Professor Michael Kelly 21 June 2006 N A Mike Parker appointed with effect from 3 March 2015 2 March 2015 N A The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for a review after an initial three year term with the possibility of annual renewal.
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive directors office or employment.
Laird PLC 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Companys policy on payment for loss of office in respect of executive directors and any discretion available to the Committee.
Element Approach Committee discretion Base salary, benefits There will be no compensation for normal resignation or in the event None and pension of termination by the Company due to misconduct.
In other circumstances, executive directors will be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the salary payments that they would have received if still employed by the Company for a maximum of a 12 month period.
This is payable in a lump sum or in instalments which would be subject to mitigation.
Annual Performance Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the The Committee has discretion to Incentive Scheme end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the determine whether an individual is a executive may be eligible for an annual incentive award for that good leaver and therefore whether a performance year subject to an assessment based on performance pro-rated bonus will be payable for achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of the year of cessation, and whether any gross misconduct.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable at the Committees discretion subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period and provided the individual is a good leaver.
The good leaver definition is the same as for the 2015 LTIP below.
Deferred shares will vest in accordance with the regular vesting period, except for where an executive directors employment is terminated for cause or any other reason determined by the Committee i. e. bad leaver reasons where they will lapse.
In addition deferred shares will vest in full on a change of control.
Long-term The treatment of unvested long-term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, incentives as approved by shareholders.
See table below for further details.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012. obligations Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors remuneration report continued Summary of Companys policy on payment for loss of office in respect of executive directors and any discretion available to the Committee with regard to long-term incentives.
Approach Committee discretion Cessation of employment Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan The Committee has absolute discretion to determine that the reason for termination is classified in a manner described in the On termination of employment before the vesting date, all unvested previous column.
awards will lapse, unless the following circumstances apply: The Committee can determine that the number of shares that Death.
vest is a higher or lower number than calculated, provided that this number does not exceed the total number of shares subject Ill-health, injury or disability, to the award.
Redundancy, The Committee has the discretion to determine that the end of Retirement with the agreement of the Company, the performance period is the date of cessation, whether and to what extent the performance measures have been satisfied The company employing the participant ceasing to be a member or waived, whether to pro-rate the number of vested shares of the Group, to reflect the performance period completed and whether to accelerate the vesting date to the date on which the Committee Transfer of the business or part of the business to which the makes its final determination of the number of shares which participants employment relates to a person who is not a vest.
member of the Group, or It should be noted that it is the Committees policy only to any reason, permitted by the Committee in its absolute apply such discretion if the circumstances at the time are, discretion in any particular case except where termination is for in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or other circumstances justifying explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
Further the Committee does not currently intend to waive any If an individual leaves under a circumstance described above, the performance measures and its normal practice will be to proexecutive will continue to hold the award which will vest on the rate for time.
normal vesting date based on the achievement of performance targets.
The award will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed at the time of cessation.
Change of Control Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan The Committee has the following discretions where it deems it impracticable for the performance period to end on the date of In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary the relevant event: winding-up of the Company other than in the nature of an internal reorganisation, awards will vest and options may be exercised for a to determine that the performance period should end on an limited period following the relevant event.
earlier date: The performance period will be deemed to have ended on the date to determine that an award should vest or become of the relevant event and awards will be pro-rated to reflect the time exercisable on a date earlier than the date of the relevant period and performance up to the date of the relevant event.
event: and if the Committee considers that a transaction such as a demerger or delisting might affect the current or future value of an award, to allow awards to vest or become exercisable for a period.
In exceptional circumstances only, the Committee may consider whether to disapply full pro-rating for time and performance.
It is the Committees policy in normal circumstances to measure performance at the date of the relevant event and pro-rate the number of shares to the amount of the performance period completed on the occurrence of the event.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company in developing policy In setting the remuneration policy for directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Laird are taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the executive directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company.
Laird PLC 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 However, with 67% of employees in Asia, 21% of employees in North America and 12% in Europe, only broad trends are considered.
In 2014 salary increases for management level employees ranged from zero to 31% depending on several factors, including the region where they work and individual performance.
Although the Committee takes into account the pay and conditions of other employees, the Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the policy report.
During the year the Company reviewed the benefits and incentives offered to employees with a focus on encouraging employee share ownership.
Following this review the Company is proposing to introduce two new arrangements: A new long term incentive programme for the senior leaders the MTIP.
Awards under the new incentive programme are subject to the satisfaction of Group performance targets.
New global employee share purchase plans which will be available to the majority of employees depending on the country where they work.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its remuneration policy.
During the year the Committee conducted a review of its executive remuneration policy.
The Chairman of the Committee consulted with the Companys key Shareholders along with the Investment Association IA and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS.
The process by which this consultation was undertaken is set out in the table below.
Advisor The Committees advisor, PwC, was asked to conduct a review of the current June July 2014 remuneration arrangements against market and best practice and develop alternatives where required 2.
Proposal review PwC presented the alternatives to the Committee and a number of discussions August September 2014 were held to refine the alternatives.
Management were also consulted during this period.
Shareholder The Committee Chairman and Chairman of the Board met with the top 5 October 2014 January 2015 consultation shareholders, and the Committee Chairman met with IA and ISS.
Additionally the Committee Chairman wrote to the next 8 shareholders setting out details of the proposed revised remuneration policy.
Approval of new The proposed change to the remuneration policy will be put to shareholders 8 May 2015 policy at the AGM on 8 May 2015.
Elements of previous policy that continue to apply: The following subsisting arrangements will continue to operate on the terms and conditions set out in the relevant Rules.
2003 Executive Share Option Plan, 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan Objective and Operation Maximum award Performance measures link to strategy and assessment Incentivises the The outstanding awards under the previous Outstanding and Relative TSR and EPS targets.
achievement of long-term incentive plans will continue to unvested awards that The Committee has the discretion long-term financial form part of the remuneration policy until have been granted to the to adjust targets or performance performance and they vest, are exercised or lapse.
executive directors are measures for any exceptional sustainable returns summarised on page 91.
The Rules of the Plans, previously approved events that may occur during the to shareholders in a by Shareholders, will continue to apply.
way that aligns the interests of executives Any awards made prior to the adoption of Further details on the and shareholders.
the Directors Remuneration Policy set out performance measures for the in this report may be paid out, subject to the outstanding awards are set terms of those awards and achievement of out in note 30 to the financial the relevant performance measures.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration This Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of how the Companys remuneration policy for directors was implemented during the financial year ended on 31 December 2014.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
The information on pages 86 to92 up to the Performance Graph and Table has been audited.
Single total figure of remuneration Executive directors The remuneration of executive directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for the prior year is shown below.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Benefits include car and fuel, or a car allowance, and health insurance.
The value of long-term incentives is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the later of the date the performance conditions are met or the minimum period for holding is met.
On 21 March 2014, 187,917 LTIPs nil-cost awards awarded on 21 March 2011 met their performance conditions 83.78% of the original award.
The relevant share price was 292.7p giving a value of 550,033.
On 21 March 2014, 86,366 market-value share options awarded on 21 March 2011, with an exercise price of 149.8p became exercisable 51.34% of the original award.
The share price on 21 March 2014 was 292.7p giving a net value of 123,417.
Further details are shown on page 88.
The value of shares vesting in 2013 was calculated using a share price of 201.6p for LTIPs and 204p for share options.
Details are set out in the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
This includes the cash in lieu of pension amount and the single pension figure.
Additional details in respect of single total figure table Taxable benefits Benefits comprise the provision of a car and fuel, or a car allowance, life, disability and health insurance.
The Company provided executive directors with the following benefits during the year: Company car or Health Executive director 000 cash allowance insurance 2014 11 3 David Lockwood 2013 11 3 2014 18 3 Jonathan Silver 2013 18 3 David Lockwoods taxable benefits for 2014 included a sum of 3,759 where the Company paid for his wife to accompany him on an overseas business trip.
Laird PLC 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Outcome of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme for the year ended 31 December 2014 The performance targets, actual performance achievement and resulting bonus payments are summarised below.
No part of the bonus was deferred.
Performance Targets Actual measures performance outcome Underlying profit Maximum: Up to 70% of salary based on achievement of the objective for underlying 62.62m of bonus 1 before tax PBT PBT adjusted for any acquisitions and disposals during the year of 65.4m.
PBT 27.5% of salary payable for Weighting 70% Threshold: If the threshold of 95% 62.13m of objective is met then 20% of salary is both Executive payable with apro-rata amount payable for between 95% and 100% of objective being directors achieved.
An additional 10% of salary was payable if the underlying PBT was 110% of Objective.
However the maximum overall bonus could not exceed 100%.
Working capital Up to a maximum of 10% of salary based on management of trade working capital, Targets partially metrics taking into account Days Sales Outstanding DSO, Days Payable Outstanding DPO achieved.
5% of and inventory turns against those budgeted and taking into account how they compare salary payable for Weighting 10% with the previous year.
both Executive 2 directors 0% of salary is payable for achieving none of the targets and 10% payable for achieving all the targets.
Strategic Four strategic objectives were set for the year for the Chief Executive and the Chief objectives Financial Officer.
The common strategic objectives for both directors were: Achieved Weighting 20% To produce a group level strategy for the next 3-5 years for approval by the Board.
To demonstrate an improvement in EH&S performance with a reduction in reportable Reduction not accidents of 5% year-on-year.
achieved The Chief Executive had two further objectives which were: To increase customer diversification measured by number of customers as follows: Achieved see KPI on For customers $25m maintain level i. e. five customers: page 3 For customers $10-$25m increase from eight customers to nine: For customers $1-10m increase from 57 customers to 63: and Drive One Laird revenue synergies from the business units product lines.
Achieved The Chief Financial Officers strategic objectives were: 75% achieved To achieve the finance business partnering model phased on a quarterly basis as measured by the Chief Executive, as part of the quarterly finance function review: and Achieved The achievement of a medium to long-term debt financing for both Bank and Private Placement of debt.
0% of salary is payable for achieving none of the targets and 20% is payable for achieving all the targets.
DPO metric was met but the DSO and stock turns were not as good as budget.
Each metric was better than the previous year.
Some of the strategic objectives are not fully disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity, for example disclosing the actual number of DSO and DPO days in the working capital metrics.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Taking into account the performance against the targets and the underlying financial performance of Laird, the Remuneration Committee determined to make the following bonus awards for 2014: Chief Executive David Lockwood Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Silver Maximum % of Bonus Maximum % of Bonus opportunity salary paid opportunity salary paid Performance measures % of salary paid % of salary paid Underlying profit before tax 70% 27.5% 132,000 70% 27.5% 94,875 Working capital metrics 10% 5% 24,000 10% 5% 17,250 Strategic objectives 20% 17.5% 84,000 20% 15% 51,750 Total 100% 50% 240,000 100% 47.5% 163,875 Long-term incentives The awards granted in 2011 to Jonathan Silver under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2003 Executive Share Option Plan vested in 2014.
Weighting Performance measures % of award subject to Number of Number of Value of vested 3 Award see full details below performance measure awards granted awards vesting awards 2003 LTIP awards granted Continuing Earnings per 25% 224,299 187,917 550,033 in 2011 share Total shareholder return 75% 2003 ESOP awards Continuing Earnings per 75% 168,224 86,366 123,417 granted in 2011 share Total shareholder return 25% The table below summarises the performance measures and the extent to which the performance measures were satisfied: Incentive value Threshold Maximum for threshold and max Actual performance performance performance Measurement performance Performance measures required required % award period outcome Earnings per share 18.3p 22.4p 30% 100% 3 years 18.6p Total shareholder return Median Upper quartile 30% 100% 3 years TSR met in full Notes 1.
Total Shareholder Return and Continuing Earnings per Share were both used as performance measures for both the LTIP and ESOP Awards.
The Comparator group for TSR was a group of 20 companies set out in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
The TSR measurement period was the three years ending 21 February 2014.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Earnings Per Share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
The value of shares is calculated using the closing middle market share price of 292.7p on 21 March 2014, the date the awards became exercisable, less the exercise price of 149.8p per share.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee.
For the awards granted in 2011, and all outstanding awards, the EPS performance measure is assessed based on year-end results.
However, the TSR performance measure is assessed a number of months post the financial year end and is subject to an underlying financial performance condition until the date of vesting.
Therefore, vesting is unknown at the year end.
The TSR performance condition for the LTIP and Option awards granted to Jonathan Silver and David Lockwood in 2012 will be measured as at 2 April 2015 and 13 August 2015 respectively.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying performance which is assessed at the date of vesting.
The Committee believes it would be inconsistent to split the performance conditions for these awards and therefore to show true comparability between annual grants the figures are shown for the awards which vest in the financial year.
Laird PLC 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Total pension entitlements The Company operates a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members and provides either a contribution to a personal pension scheme: a contribution to the Laird defined contribution scheme: or a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits.
The following payments were made: Executive director % of base pay Contribution to a personal pension scheme or Cash in Lieu 2014 2013 000 000 David Lockwood 25% 116 110 Jonathan Silver 40% 138 136 Jonathan Silver is a member of the Group contributory defined benefit scheme but ceased to accrue further pension benefits with effect from 6 April 2006.
However, his benefits accrued at that date remain linked to any growth in his pensionable pay.
No additional benefits are payable under the defined benefit scheme on early retirement.
Transfer value of Accrued pension Single pension accrued pension at 1 2 3 at 31.12.14 figure at 31.12.14 31.12.14 Executive director Age at 31.12.14 000 p. a.
Payable from normal retirement date of age 60.
The single pension figure is calculated as 20 x closing pension value uplifted opening pension value less directors contributions.
The transfer value of accrued benefits is calculated on the cash equivalent transfer value basis agreed by the Trustees on 2 July 2013.
Single total figure of remuneration Non-executive directors The remuneration of non-executive directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative figures for the prior year, is shown below.
Martin Read was appointed as a director with effect from 28 February 2014 and as Chairman with effect from 2 May 2014.
Nigel Keen retired as Chairman on 2 May 2014.
Under an arrangement between the Company and Imperialise Limited, Nigel Keen was retained to act as Chairman of the Company.
Nigel Keen also acted as Chairman of the trustees of a Laird pension scheme for which he received no additional remuneration.
Nigel Keens fees for his services, for which he must account to Imperialise Limited, were 190,000 per annum.
Imperialise was responsible for Nigel Keens National Insurance NI and was paid a sum equivalent to the NI on those fees of 8,764 2013,26,220, for which it accounts to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC whereas for the other non-executive directors, whoarepaid through Lairds payroll, NI is paid directly to HMRC.
Additional fees received as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Additional fees for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Appointed 7 May 2013 and Chairman of Remuneration Committee on 1 August 2013.
Sir Christopher Hums services as a non-executive director are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Awards under the Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted under the Laird PLC 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2014 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance measures that will be tested in 2017.
Non-executive directors do not receive awards under the plan.
Percentage of award Face value of receivable End of Exercise 1 Type of Basis of award made Number of for threshold performance price Executive director option awarded award shares performance period p David Lockwood Nil-Cost Award 100% of salary 449,997 148,514 25% 4 March 2017 Nil Market Value Option 100% of salary 449,997 148,514 25% 4 March 2017 303 Jonathan Silver Nil-Cost Award 100% of salary 344,999 113,861 25% 4 March 2017 Nil Market Value Option 75% of salary 258,750 85,396 25% 4 March 2017 303 Notes 1.
Calculated as maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 3 March 2014, the day prior to grant, of 303 pence per share.
Details of performance measures are as set out below: Type of award Performance measure Measurement period Performance target Vesting level Nil Cost Awards Total Shareholder Return Three years from Upper Quartile Full Vesting relative to the FTSE 250 date of grant Median to Pro-rata on a excluding financial services Upper Quartile straight-line basis between sector companies and 25% 1 investment trusts and full Vesting Below Median Nil Market Value Options Average Annual Growth in Three financial years 12.5% p. a.
Full Vesting Continuing Earnings Per between 31 December 2013 Between 7.5% Pro-rata on a 2 Share and 31 December 2016 and 12.5% p. a. straight-line basis between 25% and full Vesting 7.5% p. a.
In addition, a nil-cost award will not vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition transaction costs as stated in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Payments to past directors No payments to past directors were made during the year, other than regular pension payments under the unfunded retirement benefits scheme UURB to former directors, as previously disclosed.
Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made during the year.
Details of the leaving service payments for Jonathan Silver are set out on page 94.
Laird PLC 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Outside appointments The Board believes that there can be significant benefits, to both the Company and the individual, from executive directors accepting non-executive directorships of companies outside the Group.
The Board takes into account the likely time commitment for such appointments prior to approving them.
During the year the fees which the executive directors received, which they are entitled to retain, were as follows: Executive director Company Fee David Lockwood Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd. 30,000 Jonathan Silver INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc 24,000 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests Directors share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below.
All directors are required to hold a minimum of 1,000 shares under the Articles of Association.
Executive directors are currently expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax profit on the gains made on the vesting of share awards and the exercise of share options, until they have acquired shares equal to 100% of base salary.
Following approval of the new remuneration policy at the 2015 AGM, the shareholding policy for the Chief Executive will be increased to 200% of base salary.
2003 LTIP 2003 ESOP and 2013 LTIP interests Interests subject to Vested but Exercised during the Director Shareholding conditions unexercised year 2003 2003 2003 Shares 2003 Options 2003 Options 2003 Options Total required Number Number of LTIPs 2013 LTIP LTIPs 2013 LTIP LTIPs 2013 LTIP interests to be of shares beneficially 2013 LTIP Market 2013 LTIP Market 2013 LTIP Market held at 31 held % of required owned Shareholding Nil-Cost Value Nil-Cost Value Nil-Cost Value December 1 4 salary to hold shares requirement Awards Options Awards Options Awards Options 2014 David 2 Lockwood 100% 154,340 25,077 No 545,093 545,093 1,090,186 Jonathan Silver 100% 110,932 682,573 Yes 429,538 322,154 172,803 187,917 199,084 924,495 Dr Martin Read 1,000 16,082 Yes Paula Bell 1,000 3,000 Yes Jack Boyer 1,000 10,000 Yes Sir Christopher Hum 1,000 7,000 Yes Professor Michael Kelly 1,000 2,250 Yes 5 Nigel Keen 1,000 523,245 Yes Notes 1.
Executive directors are expected to retain, as shares, all of the after-tax profit on the gains made on the vesting of share awards and the exercise of share options, until they have acquired shares equal to 100% of base salary.
David Lockwood only joined in August 2012 and therefore has not yet built up shares equal to the requirement.
The value of shares is calculated using the closing mid-market price on 31 December 2014 of 311p.
Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
As at 2 May 2014, the date Nigel Keen retired.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the directors between 31 December 2014 and the date of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The following table sets out the details of the vested awards that were exercised during the year: Exercised Exercise Price Type of during of Exercised Market value Gain on Executive director award the year Options on Exercise Exercise David Lockwood N A N A 1 Jonathan Silver 2003 Options 112,718 235.08p 309.336p 83,700 2 2003 Options 86,366 149.8p 312.8895p 140,854 3 2003 LTIPs 187,917 NIL 301.0307p 565,688 Notes 1.
These options were awarded on 12.3.
04 at an exercise price of 235.08p and met 100% of the performance conditions and became exercisable on 12.3.
98,657 were sold at 309.336p and the balance of 14,061 retained.
These options were awarded on 21.3.
11 at an exercise price of 149.8p and met 51.34% of the performance conditions.
62,696 shares were sold at 312.8895p and the balance of 23,670 retained.
The original award of 224,299 shares met 83.78% of the performance condition and therefore 187,917 shares vested on 21.3.
14, 88,499 shares were sold at 301.0307p and the balance of 99,418 retained.
Dilution limits The Company operates its share schemes within the Investment Associations guidelines on dilution.
No share award may be granted if, as a result, the aggregate number of shares issued or transferred from treasury during the previous ten years under all employee share schemes established by the Company would exceed ten per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on that date or, in the case of all discretionary employee share schemes, five per cent.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following information is not subject to audit.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the FTSE All Share Technology Hardware & Equipment Sector.
The Company considers these the most relevant indices for TSR measurement since both are relevant to Lairds stock market classification, investor base and business activities.
Total shareholder return for the last six years ended 31 December 2014 Laird FTSE 250 ex-Investment Trusts FTSE All-Share Technology Hardware & Equipment 1000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Source: Datastream as of 24 February 2015.
Total shareholder return assumes dividend reinvested into the stock index.
Laird PLC 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Chief Executives remuneration package over the past six years Long term Bonus payincentive out as % Single figure vesting maximum of total rates as % opportunity remuneration maximum 4 Year Name 000 opportunity 2014 David Lockwood 839 50% 0 2013 David Lockwood 831 60% 0 David Lockwood 475 47.5% 0 2012 Nigel Keen 450 N A N A 2011 Nigel Keen 218 N A N A 2011 Peter Hill 1,354 55% 0 2010 Peter Hill 1,370 55% 0 2009 Peter Hill 926 10% 50% Notes 1.
David Lockwood was appointed an employee with effect from 2 July 2012 and became Chief Executive on 13August2012.
Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman between 26November2011 and 13August2012.
His fee as Chairman was 175,000 p. a. which was increased to 609,000p.
a. for a temporary period whilst acting as Executive Chairman.
With effect from 13 August 2012 it became 190,000 p. a.
Peter Hill ceased to be a director with effect from 25November2011 but remained an employee on ill-health leave until 10August2012.
The figurefor 2011 shows what he was paid for the full year.
Includes base salary, taxable benefits, bonus, long-term incentive awards that vested during the year and cash in lieu of pension.
Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration Laird is a global company with approximately 60 UK employees and four of its most senior executives are not UK employees.
Due to the multinational nature of the Companys workforce and the fact that 67% of employees are based in Asia, the pay structure operated in respect of the vast majority of its employees is significantly different from that applicable to the Chief Executive, who is UK-based.
Therefore, the Committees view is that the most meaningful comparison of the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration is considered to be the 12 2013, 11 senior executives below Board level.
Seven of these are US employees, four are British and one is Swedish.
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executives pay including salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus with that of the chosen comparator group.
Chief Executive Average Employee pay in Year on year change % % comparator group % Base salary 6.67 10.5 Taxable benefits 0 9 Bonus 11.1 100 Notes 1.
Data for 11 employees was used for 2013 and 12 employees for 2014.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders: 2013 2014 Significant distributions m m % change Overall spend on pay for employees including executive directors 117.1 124.1 6.0 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 32.1 33.4 4.0 The above figures are taken from notes 9 and 15 to the financial statements.
Directors Leaving the Board Jonathan Silver As previously announced, Jonathan Silver will be stepping down as Chief Financial Officer at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2015 the Leaving Date after nearly 29 years with the Company, 21 of those as a director.
In line with the Committees policy, the Committee considered Jonathan Silvers sustained performance and contribution to the Company.
The package agreed by the Committee set out below is consistent with his contract ofemployment and the Committees normal policy for good leavers.
Jonathan Silver will receive his salary and contractual benefits up to and including the Leaving Date.
He will receive a payment in lieu of any days accrued but unused holiday entitlement as at the Leaving Date.
Jonathan Silver will retain the use of his company car and retain BUPA private medical cover until 31December 2015.
Under his employment contract, Jonathan Silver has a 12 months notice period which commenced on 1 January 2015.
He will work four months and eight days of his notice period, until the 8 May 2015.
The Company will make a leaving payment of 398,435.83, to take account of Jonathan Silvers unworked notice period and in order tohonourthe contractual entitlements under his terms and conditions of employment.
This payment comprises: Salary element of 222,989.83: 40% of his pro-rated base salary, in lieu of future pension accrual under the defined benefit pension scheme 89,196 : and 25% of base salary in lieu of bonus for the period of notice 86,250.
Jonathan Silver was entitled to receive a bonus payment in respect of services rendered during the bonus year ending 31December 2014.
The amount payable to Jonathan Silver for the year ended is 163,875 as disclosed in the single figure table on page 69.
He will not receive an annual bonus in respect of the bonus year ending 31December2015.
Jonathan Silvers awards under the Companys share incentive plans will be treated in accordance with the rules ofthose plans as follows: Plan Treatment 2003 Executive Share To the extent that the performance conditions have been, or will be, met, Jonathan Silvers outstanding options Option Scheme granted in March 2005, April 2006, March 2011 and April 2012 remain exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date, save to the extent that they lapse earlier under the normal operation of the scheme rules.
2003 Long Term Incentive To the extent that the performance conditions are met, Jonathan Silvers outstanding nil-cost option granted in April Plan 2012 will be exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date.
2013 Long Term Incentive Jonathan Silvers nil-cost option granted in June 2013 will be exercisable for 12 months after the Leaving Date and both Plan his nil-cost option granted in March 2014 and his market-value options granted in June 2013 and March 2014 will vest in accordance with their original vesting schedule.
All awards will be exercisable to the extent that the performance conditions are met and will be time-apportioned to the Leaving Date.
Laird PLC 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Remuneration Committee and its Advisors and Statement of Implementation ofPolicyfor 2015 The details surrounding the Remuneration Committee and its Advisors and the Statement of Implementation ofPolicy for 2015 can be found in Our Remuneration at a glance on page 68.
Statement of voting at the 2014 Annual General Meeting The table below shows the binding vote approving the Directors Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote ontheAnnual Report on Remuneration at the AGM held on 2 May 2014.
% of Votes for and % of votes % of votes Votes Issued share 2014 AGM Resolution at discretion cast Votes against cast withheld capital Directors Remuneration Policy 202,911,120 94.74 9,797,274 4.57 1,471,867 0.69 Annual Report on Remuneration 209,787,636 97.95 4,346,595 2.03 46,030 0.02 The votes on the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration and the new Directors Remuneration Policy are due to take place at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2015.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Laird PLC.
By Order of the Board Jack Boyer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2015 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information which the on the Companys website at www.
directors are required by law and regulation to include The Company may refuse to register any transfer of within the Annual Report.
This section along with the any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general information from pages 1 to 95 which are incorporated meeting of the Company, every member has one vote herein by reference constitutes the Directors Report for on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. held.
Details of the voting procedure, including deadlines for exercising voting rights, are set out in the Notice of Future Developments Meeting for the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with the At 31 December 2014 the issued share capital of Companies Act 2006 section 414C 11 to include the Company was 267,907,000 ordinary shares of the disclosure of likely future developments in the 28.125p each.
Details of the share capital and options Strategic Report.
outstanding as at 31 December 2014 are shown in note Greenhouse gas emissions and gender diversity 29 on page 143.
Information on environmental matters and disclosures At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders relating to diversity, gender and human rights are agreed to the renewal of the directors power to allot contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
shares, or grant rights for or to convert any security into shares, in the Company: the disapplication of Results and dividends pre-emption rights and authorised the Company to Underlying profit before tax was 63.2 million make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares 2013, 60.1 million and is analysed in note 14 on on the London Stock Exchange.
Profit for the year after taxation was no shares have been purchased pursuant to this 50.2 million 2013, 30.8 million.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these final dividend is 8.27p per ordinary share, to be paid authorities at the 2015 Annual General Meeting and on 3 July 2015 to ordinary shareholders registered as details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
members of the Company at the close of business on Directors 5 June 2015, making a total dividend for the year of 12.5pence per ordinary share.
The directors of the Company as at the date of the approval of this Annual Report are shown on pages 50 Annual General Meeting AGM and 51.
The Companys AGM will be held on Friday 8 May 2015.
All were directors throughout the year to 31 December Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM 2014, with the exception of Dr Martin Read who joined are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is provided to the Board on 28 February 2014 and Nigel Keen who all shareholders.
retired as a director on 2 May 2014.
The Company Articles of Association announced on 22 September 2014 that Jonathan Silver The Companys Articles of Association may only be will be stepping down as Chief Financial Officer at the amended by special resolution at a general meeting Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2015. of shareholders.
No amendments to the Articles of As announced on 29 January 2015, Mike Parker will be Association of the Company are being proposed at appointed a non-executive director with effect from the AGM.
Mike will become the Senior Independent Significant contracts Director and be a member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Laird has arrangements with a number of major customers and suppliers whereby regional or Election and Re-election of directors global terms of supply are agreed.
However, these The Companys Articles of Association which require arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations shareholder approval for any amendments, set out the to purchase and supply as these are covered by powers of the directors and the regulations for their individual purchase orders.
In accordance with the UK Share capital Corporate Governance Code, all of the directors of the Company will offer themselves for election or reThe Company has only one class of share and the rights election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Board attached to each share are identical.
Details of the rights is satisfied that each director is qualified for re-election and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available Laird PLC 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to Change of control arrangements the Board.
Two employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide for compensation, in None of the non-executive directors offering addition to the contractual notice period, of up to themselves for election or re-election has a service a maximum of two years base salary for loss of contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
employment which occurs as a result of a takeover Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for offer or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of pro rata to zero over the two years following the date Annual General Meeting.
Three other employees of the Directors Interests and share options Group have agreements which provide compensation In the year to 31 December 2014, no director had of up to a maximum of one years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
offer or scheme, in addition to their contractual notice period.
This additional compensation is fixed at one Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2014 are shown within the Directors remuneration report on page 91. years base salary during the first six months following the date of change of control and reduces pro-rata to Details of directors share options are provided in the zero over the next 12 months.
No director benefits from Directors remuneration report on page 91. these arrangements.
Directors Conflicts of Interest On a change of control, the Companys bilateral The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the companies, subject to the provisions of the Companys lenders by giving not less than 30 days notice to the Articles of Association, to authorise conflicts and Company.
Under the terms of the US Dollar Private potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
Placement, concurrently with a change of control, the The authorisation shall be effective only if the matter is Company must notify all Noteholders and offer to repay agreed to without the vote of the director who is subject all outstanding amounts within 60 days of the change of to such conflict having been counted.
The Noteholders then have a period of 30 days directors to act in situations of conflict and the rules to either accept the offer of repayment or continue with governing their duties in such situations are set out in the the Notes.
A register of conflicts Employment policy or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it Laird conducts business in multiple geographic locations is available at every Board Meeting.
and is committed to complying with the relevant legal Directors and Officers liability insurance requirements in each of those regions.
Business unit Directors and Officers liability insurance was purchased management are responsible for implementing and and maintained by the Company during the year.
communicating the Laird Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy Statement within their own Directors Indemnities business unit.
Various methods are used throughout As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which brought by third parties and such indemnification was in are reported regularly to local management teams.
During the year Laird employed an average of 8,939 employees 2013,8, 665.
Between 2005 and 2008, five of Lairds final salary pension schemes were merged.
The trustees of the Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in schemes, including Nigel Keen who was Chairman of terms of recruitment, training and career development the trustees of the surviving scheme until 1 July 2014, for all employees, including those with disabilities.
received an indemnity from the Company against any A copy of Lairds Equal Employment and Human Rights claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with Policy Statement is available on the Companys website the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger at www.
and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
Employee participation Accountability and audit The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its workforce and Statements of the respective responsibilities of the therefore encourages two-way communication with directors and auditor are set out on pages 100 and 101. its employees.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Other Statutory Information continued development reviews reinforce the link between Financial instruments business goals, an employees contribution and his An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the financial her remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at its employees, including through the provision of carrying value and fair value is given in note 28 to the information on key events within Laird, charity and financial statements.
Financial instruments and related community involvement and employee achievements.
disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk In recognition that Lairds business and its activities management objectives and exposures to credit and impact a wide community of stakeholders including liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS7.
investors, customers, employees, suppliers and local It is the Companys objective to manage its financial risk communities, the Board reviews the significance of so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial social, environmental and ethical matters which may markets on the Groups reported profitability and cash affect Laird.
Further details on all these matters are flows.
The policies for managing each of the Groups available in the Corporate Social Responsibility report main financial risk areas are referred to in the Chief onpages 20 to 29.
Financial Officers report on page 44 to 49.
Additionally, Health and safety at work the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 30 and 31 deals with currency exposure risk and the mitigating Laird is committed to providing a safe working activities adopted.
environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and Post balance sheet events targets based on relevant national and international As at the date of this report, there were no post balance health and safety standards and monitoring sheets events to report.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all Auditor employees to promote and develop good health It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be and safety practices.
Further information is available reappointed as auditor.
in theCorporate Social Responsibility report on Shareholders pages20to 29.
At 31 December 2014 there were 3,608 shareholders.
Research and development Substantial equity interests Investing in research and development programmes delivers product innovation and manufacturing The Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs improvements within Laird.
Expenditure in the year issued by the Financial Conduct Authority require ended 31 December 2014 on research and development notifications relating to control over exercising voting amounted to 49.7m 2013,47.6m, of which 12.9m rights attached to shares.
Categories of notifiable has been capitalised 2013,11.6m.
Laird continues interests include direct interests holdings of shares with to develop its technology capabilities, with research voting rights attached, indirect interests those with and development expenditure during the year running access to voting rights and financial instruments which at 8.8% of sales 2013,8.9%.
This is in line with our give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares strategic objective to increase R&D expenditure in the with voting rights attached.
Notification must be made year and focus on innovation.
of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable Going concern threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that, As set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities save in certain limited circumstances, notifications on page 100, the Accounts have been prepared on a of holdings of 3% or over have to be made when a going concern basis.
A statement on going concern full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
relating to a business requires judgement at a point The Company has only one class of shares, and does not in time about future events which, by their nature, are hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares the ability of Laird to maintain committed loan finance, in issue.
meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Chief Financial Officers report on pages 44 to 49.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Laird PLC 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 As at 27 February 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the signing of this document the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below: Number of Percentage of Nature of Shares voting rights holding Artemis Investment Management 32,112,912 12.01 Direct Mondrian Investment Partners 18,714,684 4.99 Indirect Norges Bank 13,296,183 4.97 Direct Disclosure of information to the Auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 2 March 2015 Registered office 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
55513 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
