Lonmin Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Fair remuneration in a difficult environment Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear Fellow Shareholder, As you know, the past year was a difficult one for the company, dominated by the effects of a long strike and low metal prices.
The strike meant that we had much lower revenue and, given the idle production costs for five months of the year, made a substantial loss, while low metal prices have led to a further decline in the share price.
And no dividend is to be paid.
Before the strike, some reasonable progress was made on many indicators, but we sadly suffered one fatality and as usual Christmas interrupted our rhythm.
Your management and Executive Directors then worked extremely hard in the face of a stubborn strike with the other platinum companies to settle the matter on terms that were financially acceptable.
This proved to be a five month effort and very costly, but might well have been even worse but for the work undertaken to preserve cash and to keep the shafts in good order.
On a positive note, the ramp up, when we were able to get moving, has been fatality free and we reached our normal operating level faster than many people expected, with good performance achieved in August and September.
Your management has delivered a first class restart to operations.
Progress on our transformation initiatives was also interrupted by the strike, which is hugely frustrating, but we are on course to increase HDSA ownership to 26% by the year end, as required, and are likewise on course to complete our hostel conversions.
We have donated 50ha of land to be made available for housing and progress is being made in building the infrastructure for a large number of good quality homes.
Ben Magara has been saying if you cant bring me a photograph of it, it doesnt count, and this has been a great stimulus to action.
So it was a year of hard work, but not much financial success.
Against this backdrop, the Executive Directors and their Exco team have elected not to receive salary increases, no cash bonus will be paid, and no award will be made under the ASAP.
As has been the case, the LTIP awards that might have vested this year did not, and lapsed for no value.
We committed to make further LTIP awards to the CEO and CFO, in two tranches, to continue to ensure alignment between shareholders and executives, but we did not make these at the same level as in the past, as the dilution effects at current share prices would have been excessive.
We will move the performance hurdles for the 2014 awards onto the new basis if this is approved at the AGM in January 2015.
There has been some criticism of the fact that our executives are paid in sterling, and the devaluation of the Rand has provided them with a windfall.
Their contracts were struck when we were concerned about international competition for executives and our share register had been UK based for most of our history.
They suffered when the Rand was strong, but have benefited in 2014.
We do not believe it is fair to try to change existing contractual commitments.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 However, we have completed our review of our practices and a new remuneration policy is to be presented at the January 2015 AGM, after consultation with our major shareholders.
The primary changes are a that we will pay future executives in Rand and consider Rand and sterling benchmarks when considering future increases, b we will change the performance hurdle for the LTIP to be based on a combination of a return on capital measure and relative shareholder returns, and c we will reduce the quantum of the maximum LTIP awards by 25% of salary.
We do not intend to change the basis of the annual bonus plans, as our feedback was that shareholders like this, but we will disclose the metrics but not the precise targets in advance.
The bonus plan is very operational in nature, and we will introduce the ability to defer payment of bonus and or settle this in shares where we feel that the underlying outcomes experienced by shareholders dont make an upfront cash reward appropriate.
I should note that all of the non-executives have accepted reductions in their fee arrangements too.
I have appreciated the time various shareholders have put into helping us consider this, and where we have not been able to take up a suggestion, I will shortly write to each to explain why.
There will be a number of resolutions at the AGM to deal with the policy itself and the consequential changes to the plans.
The challenge of providing motivational and shareholder aligned remuneration arrangements in a recovery environment is tough, but we believe we have struck a fair balance.
The LTIPs have provided no value, and bonus payouts have been far below the maxima, which we see as evidence of the robustness of our plans.
Senior executives are paid much more than the workforce, and we are always conscious of the differentials, but we believe they are paid fairly.
As ever, I look forward to your feedback, and will try to get in touch with as many of you as I can in the coming weeks.
Please do feel free to get in touch at any time, either directly or through the Company Secretary.
Yours faithfully Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee www.
com Lonmin Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Policy Report Background to the proposed policy This report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of its Executive and Non-executive Directors, and will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM on 29 January 2015.
If approved, it will take effect on 1 February 2015 and may operate for up to three years.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee commenced a fundamental review of the Companys approach to remuneration in 2012.
It is clearly vital that the remuneration strategy supports the corporate strategy, and the proposals set out below are aligned with the business plan that has been developed by Ben Magara and his team.
The changes from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are discussed fully in the notes to the two policy tables below, but in summary: Fairness in short-term incentives we continue to believe that the annual bonus plan should incentivise matters under the control or influence of management, and not be influenced by non-controllable factors like PGM prices and foreign exchange.
While the bonus plan is linked to operational delivery, those macro factors can have a profound influence on the outcomes experienced by shareholders.
We therefore intend to introduce an underpin to our Balanced Scorecard Bonus Plan so that the Committee can grant a bonus in shares and or on deferred payment terms where it judges that, despite operational performance having been delivered, the underlying shareholder returns are insufficient to warrant payment of a cash bonus.
Fairness in long-term incentives we are introducing a new Long Term Incentive Plan and making three important changes.
Firstly, the maximum award size save on recruitment will be reduced from 150% to 125%.
Secondly, in recognition of feedback provided by shareholders we are amending our performance condition, which will now comprise a Relative TSR portion essentially unchanged from that currently in force and a separate return measure such as ROIC WACC or ROE.
Finally, again in recognition of shareholders views, awards will now vest over a period of up to five years rather than solely at the three year mark.
The Committee considered whether to move to a longer performance and or vesting period, but concluded that our stretching shareholding obligations provided a better tool in aligning interests.
Thinking like shareholders we believe that a change in value of a personal holding of the Companys shares will always be more motivational than a notional gain or loss on an unvested award over shares.
So the imperative is for the Executive Directors to become shareholders at the earliest opportunity, and we are amending our shareholding obligation to do this.
To give effect to this policy, the Committee will have a discretion to settle part or all of a bonus in shares where the Executive Director has not met a pre-agreed schedule for how they intend to build their personal shareholding.
Non-executive Director pay the pay of each of our CEO and Chairman was set at levels below that of their predecessors, recognising the Companys current circumstances.
We propose to take this logic further, and reduce the fees offered to Non-executive Directors by about 15% from current levels.
While the fees may still seem high relative to South African norms, they will be well below those prevailing in the London market in which much of our Non-executive Director recruitment occurs.
We are pleased that both the Executive Directors and the Non-executive Directors have supported this initiative, which we hope will be well-received by shareholders.
So that we can implement this policy, the Company will also be seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to adopt amended rules for the Balanced Scorecard Bonus Plan, which will include the right to share-settle bonuses and or defer payment where felt appropriate or necessary, extend the life of the ASAP so that it is coterminous with the other plans and adopt a wholly new LTIP.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply as detailed below.
Remuneration policy is an important facet of managing the business, and the Committee seeks and considers input from many sources, and routinely reviews pay and employment conditions of Group employees generally.
The EVP Human Resources provides insight into levels of pay, bonus and other benefits relative to South African market norms for employees both at workforce and managerial levels.
Members of the Committee bring their experience from other Committees, notably the SET, SHE and Audit & Risk Committees to bear on their work, as well as Board discussions on matters including strategy, performance and labour relations which invariably include pay and employment conditions, as well as their knowledge of the business generally.
The Company has not consulted its employees in formulating this policy.
While the revised policy is an evolution of that currently in place and was largely driven by its members knowledge of executive pay practices in the UK and South Africa, the Committee has commissioned a report from Hay Group on the pay of Chairmen and Non-executive Directors of genuinely comparable UK companies.
We discuss any major changes to remuneration policy or major applications of discretion with shareholders in advance, wherever this is possible within the legal and regulatory constraints we face.
In preparing this policy, the Company took the known views of its major institutional shareholders into account.
The Committee Chairman wrote to the Companys twenty largest institutional shareholders and major representative bodies to seek their views on the draft policy, and we are grateful for the feedback provided.
A number of points of detail were raised and one material point emerged from these discussions, being the denomination of the Executive Directors packages in pounds sterling.
This was raised by a number of South African investors and has been considered carefully by the Committee.
We expect that all future Executive Directors are likely to be based in South Africa and, as such, they will be offered Rand-denominated remuneration packages.
However, both current Directors were recruited on the basis of sterling-denominated pay and we feel that it would be both bad faith and damaging to morale to seek to vary this.
Future benchmarking of pay for Executive Directors will consider the absolute levels of pay in both sterling and rand terms.
The directors remuneration policy was therefore updated to reflect this amended position.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors Our policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors has evolved over a number of years in response to changing circumstances.
At its heart is our intention: to enable the Company to attract and keep people of the calibre necessary to deliver the Boards strategic plans and provide leadership to the management team: to incentivise them to achieve stretching  goals which should help create value for shareholders.
Importantly, these remuneration systems must promote safe, sustainable and socially-responsible business practices: and to align their interests with those of shareholders by delivering a significant proportion of the reward in shares.
This latter point is bolstered by a shareholding obligation which is at the upper end of market practice for a London-listed company of comparable size.
Crucially, our remuneration policy is designed to operate through the economic and business cycle.
It should deliver outcomes which are fair to both the Executive Directors and shareholders, and maintain a demonstrably fair relationship between pay and performance.
The current CEO and CFO are remunerated in sterling denominated packages.
We expect that future Executive Directors will be based in South Africa and will therefore be offered Rand-denominated packages.
Components of How this supports the How this component of Maximum that may be paid Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration shortand long-term remuneration operates assess performance: any provisions for strategic objectives the recovery of 1 Applicable performance measures of the Group sums paid or and weighting where applicable the withholding note 2 of payment 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Base Salary Offering marketSalary is paid monthly in Base salaries for the year to 1 Not applicable No contractual competitive levels of arrears in cash.
While the 30 September 2015 are: provisions for 2 Not applicable guaranteed cash Companys obligation to the claw-back or Ben Magara 462,150 3 Not applicable earnings should help current Executive Directors malus Simon Scott 334,650 us attract and retain is denominated in sterling, across both employments executives of suitably they receive a proportion of see page 105 high calibre to manage their pay in local currency, the Boards strategic converted at prevailing Salaries are reviewed plans and lead the exchange rates.
The individual annually, effective 1 October.
therefore bears the currency Salary increases will also risk.
We expect that future Reflects the reflect any changes in Executive Directors will be individuals skills, responsibility, market based in South Africa experience and role conditions, and performance and will receive Randwithin the Group.
Year-on-year increase will not The Chairman of the exceed 10% per annum.
Remuneration Committee discusses the performance of each Executive Director in role with the Chairman of the Board, and seeks the view of the CEO in relation to other Executive Directors, ahead of all pay reviews.
For confirmatory purposes, independent data on prevailing market rates of salary for each role a in UK listed companies of equivalent size, complexity and risk profile and b comparable South African mining companies, will be reviewed by the Committee.
Benchmarking will consider the absolute levels of base salary in both sterling and Rand terms.
com Lonmin Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports How this component of Maximum that may be paid Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration the shortand remuneration operates assess performance: any provisions for the long-term strategic recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures objectives of the or the withholding and weighting where applicable Group of payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Benefits Offering marketThe Company offers Policy limits are set at a 1 Not applicable No contractual in kind competitive levels Executive Directors a level that reflects market provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable of benefits-in-kind range of benefits practice for individuals of back or malus 3 Not applicable should help us including some or this level of seniority and at attract and retain all of: a cost which is affordable executives of to the business.
car allowance suitably high calibre paid in cash The maximum benefit that to manage the can be offered or paid to private medical Companys the Executive Directors for insurance for the strategic vision each element is: Executive Director and plans.
and their family car allowance of As the Company is 15,790 per annum income protection obliged to operate increasing annually in insurance cross-border line with base salary income tax and life assurance private medical insurance social security annual medicals is provided on a family deductions, we advice and support basis provide appropriate in managing their support to help income protection tax and exchange the individuals with insurance of control obligations these complex approximately 75% of obligations, to avoid access to salary in certain the distraction or independent circumstances time consumed in actuarial, financial life assurance of 4x base basic compliance and legal advice salary activities.
when necessary annual full medicals Where benefits are up to 10,000 per provided in kind, these annum VAT of tax and are generally sourced exchange control in the open market support and the Company and Committee keep the The Committee may costs under review.
choose to make suitable independent professional advice available to the Executive Directors: for example, in the event that a benefit is being removed or a material change to their terms and conditions of employment is being contemplated of up to 10,000 per annum VAT.
Relocation Offering assistance Assistance will include There are a number of 1 Not applicable No contractual expatriate to Executive but is not limited to variables affecting the provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable assistance Directors who are facilitating and or amount that may be back or malus 3 Not applicable asked to work meeting the costs of payable, but the away from their obtaining visas and Committee would pay home location work permits for the no more than it judged should enable the Executive Directors and reasonably necessary, in Company a to their immediate family the light of all applicable employ the best members, removal and circumstances.
For the person for each other relocation costs, purposes of compliance role and b where house purchase or with the Regulations, the the appointee is rental costs, childrens maximum would not already employed education, a limited exceed 250,000 in any by the Company, amount of family travel year for one individual.
provide career and tax equalisation and or personal arrangements: and development may extend to options and facilitating and or potentially help meeting the costs of retain their services.
re-establishing them to their previous location at the end of the employment or assignment.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand long-term strategic How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: any provisions for the operates recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures or the withholding and weighting where applicable of payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Pension Offering market-competitive levels of guaranteed cash The Company The maximum 1 Not applicable No contractual earnings should help us attract and retain executives of currently offers an amount payable provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable suitably high calibre to manage the Boards strategic allowance expressed is 20.52% of back or malus 3 Not applicable plans and lead the management team.
as a percentage of base salary.
base salary which the Executive Director can choose to take a as an employer contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme subject to applicable tax law, b as a non-bonusable salary supplement, or c as a blend of the two.
Annual The short-term incentive arrangements use a Balanced Annual bonus is linked 125% of base 1 Executive Directors bonus There are no Bonus the Scorecard format to provide an incentive for delivery to base salary only.
salary, if every measures are currently weighted claw-back or Balanced within the financial year across a range of strategicallymetric was at target so that: malus provisions Three levels of Scorecard important areas.
These reward delivery of key strategic achieved at in the current plan attainment are a 80% of value is linked to Plan the and personal objectives within agreed risk parameters stretch.
defined in advance corporate KPIs: and BSC over a one year period, and help create a strong threshold, target The proposed BSC b 20% of value is linked to performance culture.
rules permit the personal objectives.
Performance measures recovery of bonus All bonus metrics are For both corporate and personal The Committee uses the BSC as a tactical tool to create amounts at the subject to audit or elements, stretch performance a focus and financial incentive for the delivery of shortCommittees other external would be 1.5x these levels.
term imperatives in support of strategic outcomes.
discretion in the event assurance and the The Committee has discretion to that we discover, In normal circumstances we expect the majority of the formulaic outcome of alter the formulaic outcome in within three years measures to be relatively unchanged year-on-year, with the Balanced the light of unforeseen events, of payment, any the core measures likely to include the following: Scorecard is and to reflect the actual delivery misrepresentation or reviewed for fairness Safety incentivises management to ensure that risk of value to shareholders.
error including but by the Committee.
controls, safety procedures and the culture of the not limited to a The personal metrics are agreed organisation are constantly improved to reduce LTIFRs Bonus at target mis-statement of between the Chairman, the and avoid fatal accidents.
In addition, it reinforces the would be 83.5% of the financial results Committee and the Director Companys commitment to Zero Harm to employees base salary and at and or health of the concerned each year in advance, and contractors which is essential for the long-term stretch would be Company during with a wide degree of discretion sustainable operation of the mines.
The target is set 125% of base salary, the bonus year, given to the Committee.
They to improve the LTIFR, subject a modifier which adjusts being 1.5x target.
an erroneous generally relate to projects or the value of the bonus for any fatalities.
The Committee uses calculation, errors or initiatives linked to the design or Social responsibility encourages management to the BSC as a tactical discrepancies in the delivery of strategic outcomes.
operate in a way that is thoughtful about the impact the tool to create a focus financial statements Any discretion applied to the Company has on its host communities and recognise and financial incentive or we discover, at BSC, its corporate or personal that the vast majority of its employees have homes for the delivery of any time following measures, weightings and away from the mine.
short-term payment, a prior act targets, will be discussed imperatives in of misconduct on Platinum Production the Companys sole source with shareholders whenever support of strategic the part of the of revenue is the metals it sells, and this measure appropriate, and in any event outcomes.
incentivises management to produce finished metal fully reported to shareholders.
We choose to incentivise production It is crucial that The Committee has discretion rather than sales to avoid distortions that could be these can be varied to make changes in future years caused by movements in stock levels between year ends.
from year to year, to reflect the evolving nature of The timing of sales can therefore be planned to maximise in response to the strategic imperatives that profits free from any influence caused by the bonus plan.
It is may be facing the Company.
impossible to foresee Operating Unit Costs encourages management to all of the events that 2 Performance is measured over contain costs and drive cost efficiencies collectively could occur during one financial year.
measured as cash operating costs per PGM ounce the three-year life produced to protect the profitability of the business of this remuneration and boost its resilience in down cycles.
The Committee Net cash encourages management to devise therefore believes it operational plans focussed on cash generation, to inadvisable for this create options for the Board in relation to among policy to create a other uses reinvestment in future production capacity, specific BSC design distribution to shareholders or social spending in with a set of measures support of the Companys licence to operate.
com Lonmin Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration long-term strategic objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: any provisions for the operates recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures or the withholding of and weighting where applicable payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Annual PGM recoveries efficiency and effectiveness in which cannot be 3 The nature of the BSC is that any Bonus the recovering PGMs from rock mined and hoisted to surface varied this would amount between zero and the Balanced is crucial in creating value.
This metric encourages greatly reduce the maximum can be earned.
Scorecard management to explore technical and other opportunities value and usefulness If all the corporate metrics were Plan the that could improve recovery rates and reduce the value of the tool.
achieved at the same level, the BSC of materials left in process residues and tailings.
Recognising the resulting payment as a continued Weightings importance of these percentage of salary would be: The Committee also uses the weight attached to each issues to at threshold: 43% assuming performance measure within the BSC in further support shareholders, we that half of the 20% personal of the short-term delivery of corporate strategy, and can intend to publish a element was achieved also use one or more of these measures as a hurdle or summary of the at target: 83.5% assuming that multiplier for part or all of the BSC, subject to the measures and the 20% personal element was maximum amount contained in the plan rules.
There weightings to be achieved in full will be times when it is appropriate, and in shareholders used in the current best interests, to attach more significant weight to years BSC on the at stretch: 125% assuming for example one or more of production, financial or Companys website the personal element was transformation outcomes, reflecting immediate priorities.
as early as possible in outperformed and assessed Again, the Committee believes it inadvisable to commit each year.
at 30% to a particular design in advance, as this would greatly The corporate reduce the value and usefulness of the tool.
measures support Targets our strategy.
The Once the measures and weightings have been set the targets are Committee devises three levels of attainment for each commercially measure, at threshold, target and stretch.
In general sensitive and so are terms, the threshold level of performance is set at the not disclosed in minimum level of performance for which it would be advance, but there reasonable to offer additional remuneration, and has a will be full disclosure lower level of payment: target is generally set at or in arrears.
about budget or market consensus: and stretch Bonuses are settled which results in a higher level of payment is set at in cash but can be a challenging, yet potentially achievable, level which settled in shares or should result in the creation of direct or indirect value a mixture of cash for shareholders.
Wherever possible, quantifiable hard and shares at the targets are set to enable accurate measurement and discretion of the assurance before payment.
There is an underpinning discretion available to the Committee to defer payment and or provide shares rather than cash where the underlying operational and or financial performance is felt to be insufficient to warrant immediate payment of a cash bonus.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration long-term strategic objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: any provisions for the operates recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures or the withholding of and weighting where applicable payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Annual Share Ensures the interests of the Executive Directors and The face value of the The maximum 1 The bonus earned and paid in Malus can be applied Award Plan shareholders are aligned by providing a material award is of equal face value respect of the preceding financial at the Committees financial exposure to the Companys shares.
We expect value to the bonus of the award is year is used to determine the discretion at any time this to incentivise the delivery of long-term strategic paid for the capped at 125% size of the award.
during the three-year objectives as it clearly aligns the value of reward with preceding financial of salary.
vesting period in the Once granted, the only on-going performance.
The average event that we discover The final value condition is generally continued prevailing share price 1 a misstatement of As the award is forfeitable if the executive resigns or is of the award employment.
up to the award date the financial results dismissed within three years of granting, this may help will depend on 2 The award is made on a value is used to and or health of the the Company retain Executive Directors.
share price discretionary basis to Executive calculate the number Company during the performance The ASAP supports the BSC Bonus Plan in driving the Directors who worked for part or of shares in the award.
year for which the to the date on short-term delivery of strategic objectives, but value is all of the preceding financial year underlying bonus was Awards are structured which the award delivered in the form of Lonmin shares, after a deferral and are still in employment at the assessed the Relevant as nil-cost options, is exercised.
period of at least three years.
Please refer to the row date of granting.
Year : 2 an erroneous and vest on the third above for a fuller description of how the BSC Bonus In addition, in calculation in relation The award vests on the third anniversary of grant, Plan works in practice.
The delivery of value in the line with UK best to the Companys anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued form of shares helps create a longer-term focus on practice dividend and can be exercised at any results or other service.
equivalents can, performance point up to the tenth anniversary, the award may be at the benchmark: 3 errors provided the individual is still in exercised at any time Committees employment.
in the Companys between the third and discretion, be financial statements: tenth anniversaries of 3 The face value of the award will paid on the or 4 discrepancies in grant at executives be of equal value to the gross vesting of the financial accounts discretion.
The award bonus paid in respect of the awards.
These for the Relevant Year, is settled by either the preceding financial year, capped equal the value whether or not arising issue of new shares at 125% of salary.
of dividends that from fraud or reckless or the transfer of would have been The final value of the award behaviour on the part market-purchased declared or paid will depend on share price of any Director or shares to the on the number performance to the date on employee of a Group Executive Director.
of shares vesting which the award is exercised.
Dividend equivalents during the tenor Proposed amendments may be paid on any of that award.
will introduce clawback shares vesting.
in the event that we discover, at any time following the delivery of shares, a prior act of misconduct on the part of the Executive Director.
com Lonmin Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the How this component of Maximum that may be paid Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration shortand long-term remuneration operates assess performance: any provisions for strategic objectives the recovery of 1 Applicable performance measures of the Group sums paid or and weighting where applicable the withholding note 2 of payment 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Long-Term This plan aims to An award over a fixed number The rules of the new LTIP 1 The proposed performance The rules provide Incentive Plan create alignment of shares is granted on and proposed for adoption at condition will be in two parts, that clawback of executive vests on the third anniversary the 2015 AGM provide that each assessed independently.
may be applied and shareholder of grant, subject to i continued the maximum face value of The vesting of half of an award within two years interests by: service and ii achievement an award will not normally will be subject to Relative Total of vesting where of one or both of the exceed 125% of salary Shareholder Return RTSR, the level of grant facilitating a material performance conditions.
except in exceptional assessed in the same way as at or vesting of an exposure to the circumstances, which for present, and as described more award has been value of the The award is settled by either Executive Directors would be fully on page 107.
The vesting affected by any Companys shares the issue of new shares or the limited to the use of the plan of the other half of the award of the events by the Executive transfer of market-purchased to facilitate the buy-out of will be subject to a return metric described in 1 Directors shares to the Executive incentives on recruitment.
such as ROIC, ROCE or ROE to to 4 above in Director in equal tranches making the vesting be determined by the Committee.
relation to the on each of the third, fourth In line with UK best practice of the award subject ASAP.
Clawback and fifth anniversaries of the dividend equivalents can, at 2 RTSR: assessed over a period of to the achievement may also be date of granting.
the Committees discretion, 36 months broadly coterminous of separate applied where we be paid on the vesting of with the vesting period, but performance Dividend equivalents may be discover at any awards.
These equal the ending on a calendar month end.
conditions assessing paid on any shares vesting.
time following value of dividends that This allows time to communicate i a return on capital vesting a prior act would have been declared the vesting outcome to or investment of misconduct or paid during the tenor of participants in advance of measure to be on the part of the award on the number the vesting date, so that tax determined by the the Executive of shares vesting.
withholding obligations can Committee and ii Director.
the change in value of shareholders Return: assessed by reference investment relative to the three sets of audited to our peers financial statements issued by the Company during the three We believe that the year term of the award.
potential value available to the Executive 3 Vesting can be at any level Directors through the from 0% to full vesting.
While LTIP leads to fairness the vesting schedule has not reasonable yet been finalised, we do not performance should expect that threshold vesting lead to reasonable will exceed 20%.
reward while the The final value of the award highest levels of pay will depend on share price should result from performance to the date on significant levels of which the award is released.
In turn this should help us attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the right calibre.
The Committee requires the Executive Directors to build and retain a personally significant investment in the Companys shares.
We see this as an important and integral part of our remuneration policy as this means that they experience the same changes in value as shareholders and have a direct personal incentive to create and preserve value.
Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding within five years of taking office with a value of at least 3x salary CEO and 2x salary CFO and any other Executive Directors.
Our expectation is that Executive Directors will acquire shares steadily through the five year period, rather than simply by the end date.
Should this be achieved but the market value of that investment then fall below the required level, the individual has a period of three years in which to restore compliance.
No forfeiture, clawback or malus provisions are applicable as these are personal shareholdings created from after-tax income, save where such provisions apply under the Companys employee share schemes and other share-settled arrangements.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Executive Directors continued Footnotes to the policy table 1 Performance measures as noted in the policy table, performance measures apply to the Balanced Scorecard Bonus Plan BSC, the Annual Share Award Plan ASAP and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
These were chosen and targets are set as follows: BSC the specific metrics and their weightings are set by the Committee in the light of the Boards assessment of the strategic imperatives facing the Company and the budgets and other operational plans adopted by the Board to best address both short and longer-term imperatives.
Management proposes suitable metrics which are quantitative wherever possible and levels of performance to form the threshold, target and stretch levels of attainment.
The Committee then assesses whether achievement of these is appropriately aligned with shareholders interests, and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Directors would be justifiable.
They also examine whether the metric is consistent with the requirements of prudent risk management and does not itself create perverse incentives and good governance.
ASAP shareholders will recall that this plan replaced the previous practice of mandatory deferral of after-tax bonus, following changes in South African tax law.
When the amounts available under this plan are combined with the value of the BSC bonus, the total value as a multiple of base salary has not changed for several years.
The maximum award requires significant performance achievement, which has resulted in actual awards under the BSC and ASAP having been considerably below the maximum in recent years.
As the prior year bonus determines the award size, the Committee believes that no subsequent performance condition is required, other than continued employment, noting that the ultimate value of the award will move with the share price.
The vesting period of three years is felt appropriate given practices in competitor companies and the requirement for the Executive Directors to build and retain material long-term holdings of Lonmin shares.
LTIP our current performance condition was devised in 2010, in consultation with shareholders.
It combines the corporate measures in the BSC plan which are strategically aligned, averaged over three years to create a longer-term assessment of operational performance.
We multiply the average BSC outcome by the Total Shareholder Return generated by Lonmin relative to the median of a peer group of other listed PGM producers who face the same socio-economic and operational challenges, assessed over three years, being a direct measure of value creation for shareholders.
We believe that this creates an incentive to manage the business for value over the longer term.
The levels of relative performance were established after actuarial modelling of long-term historic data, such that material levels of vesting would only occur for strong levels of performance.
Combining the two components of the condition helps avoid a situation where reward flows from operational performance but no value has accrued to shareholders.
However, shareholders have expressed concern about the double-dipping inherent in this approach, and the Committee also identified some shortcomings with the performance condition, which it believes can be improved.
This is captured in our proposals in footnote 3 below.
Details of outstanding awards under the current rules of the ASAP and existing LTIP are set out on page 110.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
2 Continuation of previous policy the terms of the Directors remuneration policy previously approved by shareholders will continue in full force and effect up to and including the date on which the new policy becomes effective, expected to be 1 February 2015.
For the avoidance of doubt, the previous policy includes the share-settled awards made to Ben Magara referred to in that policy as the Recruitment Award and Simon Scott referred to as the Special Award.
Both awards will continue in operation until the date on which the last tranche of shares has vested or lapsed, as the case may be.
In addition, awards made under the ASAP prior to the revised remuneration policy coming into effect will similarly continue to operate on the terms on which they were granted until the date on which the last tranche of shares has vested or lapsed, as the case may be.
Awards made under the LTIP will be treated on the same basis, save that awards made in calendar 2014 will have the new performance condition substituted for that required by the old policy.
3 Changes from the previous policy all of the items proposed for inclusion in the revised Directors remuneration policy formed part of the previous policy.
There are three sets of changes from the previous policy, being: 1.
In respect of the BSC, we propose to introduce an underlying discretion available to the Committee so that in the event that the underlying outcomes experienced by shareholders are felt to be insufficient to warrant immediate payment of a cash bonus then the payment may be deferred and or a proportion of it may be paid in shares.
We believe that this is clearly in shareholders interests as it should help avoid the situation of bonuses almost entirely based on operational metrics under their control or influence being paid to the Executive Directors when the overall outcomes to shareholders have not been judged acceptable.
Clawback provisions will also be introduced, as set out in the policy table above.
We propose to make three main changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Firstly, we will save in connection with recruitment reduce the maximum face value of an award to 125% of salary, from the current 150% of salary.
Secondly, we propose to adopt new performance metrics as described in the policy table so that the vesting of half of the award will be linked to a Relative TSR measurement, with the vesting of the other half linked to a return measure such as ROIC WACC or ROE.
As noted above, we intend to substitute this new performance condition for LTIP awards made in 2014.
Finally, while performance will continue to be measured over three year periods, any shares which vest will be released in 3 equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of granting of that award unless the award was granted in connection with recruitment, when it may mirror the provisions of any award being forfeited.
We believe that these changes better align the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders, and also provide the individuals with a clearer incentive than the previous arrangements.
A full description of the proposed new LTIP terms is set out in the Notice of Meeting in relation to the 2015 AGM.
In relation to our shareholding requirement, we propose to retain the current obligation and the five year period in which that is to be achieved.
However, we are clarifying our expectation that Executive Directors will acquire shares steadily through the five year period, rather than simply by the end date.
Where the shareholding requirement is not being achieved in line with an agreed schedule, the Committee will have a discretion to settle in shares some or all of the annual bonus that would otherwise be payable in cash, until such time as the requirement has been met.
We believe that by compelling the Executive Directors to build their personal investment in Lonmins shares more quickly, these changes will better align their interests with those of shareholders.
4 Remuneration of employees generally the policy in relation to the remuneration of the Executive Directors applies in virtually unchanged form to the members of the Exco and their more senior first reports we call this group the RemCo Purview Group, though the levels of awards tend to be lower than those offered to the Executive Directors and BSC targets may include elements relating to parts of the business for which the individual executive is responsible.
Below the RemCo Purview Group remuneration is a combination of fixed pay salary, benefits and pension and short-term incentive pay BSC and other one year bonus arrangements.
Share-settled long-term incentives are no longer offered to these employees as we judge that their roles do not have the longer-term dimensions that would this make this appropriate, but we do encourage employees to consider investing in the Companys shares.
For employees of the Group generally, pay comprises base salary, various allowances provided in cash or kind and short-term bonuses linked to safety, production and cost which are generally paid quarterly.
We are in the process of implementing an Employee Share Ownership Plan for employees as part of our commitment to meet the transformational requirements of the South African governments Mining Charter.
com Lonmin Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The charts below show the estimated remuneration that would be received by the current Executive Directors for the first full year in which the policy applies, at three different levels of performance: Minimum where only fixed pay salary, benefits and pension is payable and no shortor long-term performance-related pay is earned: At expectation fixed pay plus shortand long-term performance-related pay vests at the levels reasonably expected, but ignoring any share price appreciation: and Maximum fixed pay plus full vesting of all performance-related pay, again ignoring any share price appreciation.
Chief Executive Officer 92 4 29 1 462 579 579 578 20 25 25 25 Maximum Maximum 92 29 2 462 386 386 231 29 6 24 24 15 At expectation At expectation 92 Minimum 462 29 Minimum 79 16 5 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 000s % Pensions Salary Taxable benefits Short-term incentive cash Short-term incentive shares ASAP LTIP Chief Financial Officer 4 67 21 1 Maximum 335 419 419 335 21 26 26 21 Maximum 67 21 2 335 279 279 112 At expectation 30 6 26 26 10 At expectation 67 Minimum 335 21 Minimum 79 16 5 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 000s % Salary Pensions Taxable benefits Short-term incentive cash Short-term incentive shares ASAP LTIP Bonus for each financial year is paid early in the following year, after the completion of audit, assurance and approval processes.
To preserve integrity in the charts above, the bonus amount reflects that earned for the year of employment.
The basis of calculation and key assumptions used to compile the charts above is as follows: Salary, benefits in kind and pension as described in the future policy table are shown at the estimated cash cost to the Company or the taxable value to the individual, as appropriate.
No relocation assistance is currently in payment.
Bonus at minimum reflects the position where none of the corporate or personal metrics in the Balanced Scorecard is achieved at threshold level: expectation reflects the position where every such metric is achieved at target level: maximum reflects the position where every such metric is achieved at stretch level, which is the amount at which the bonus is capped.
Annual Share Award Plan shows the value of the awards being equal to the gross bonus for the financial year made in respect of the year under review, ignoring any future change in the value of the shares, and has the same effect as bonus deferral.
Long-Term Incentive Plan shows the value of the award vesting in the year based on the proportion of the shares comprised in the award that will vest, multiplied by the original strike price used to convert the face value a multiple of salary into a number of shares under award.
This therefore ignores any change in the value of those shares over the vesting period.
Our assumption is that no shares vest at minimum, one-third of the shares vest at expectation and the full number at maximum.
As seen from the charts above, at target levels of performance, around 63% of the CEOs total pay, and around 62% of CFOs total pay, arises from performance-related elements, rising to over 70% at stretch levels for both, at which point total pay is capped.
The Committee is satisfied that there is a strong incentive for the prudent management of risk, and that there are no perverse incentives created by the pay policy.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay a Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment When determining the remuneration of a newly-appointed Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will apply the following principles: offer a level and mix of fixed and performance-related remuneration which is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate candidates of suitable calibre and experience, but designed with shareholder value at its heart to help reduce the risk of over-paying.
We expect that future Executive Directors will be employed in South Africa, and will be offered Rand-denominated packages.
In setting these, the committee will consider pay in London-listed companies and or South African or international, mining companies with whom we compete for senior talent of equivalent size, complexity and risk: design the package so that the shortand long-term performance-related remuneration incentivises the individual to deliver value-creating outcomes, but such that the quantum of pay possible does not create a perverse incentive for the individual to pursue excessively risky strategies: in determining what is an appropriate level of remuneration, the Committee will take a number of relevant factors into account, including but not limited to the impact on other existing remuneration arrangements and internal pay relativities: the candidates current location and role, and their skills, knowledge and experience: the nature of the role they are being recruited for and the outcomes the individual is expected to deliver: and external market influences generally, including any competing offers the individual may be considering: design the package so that high levels of reward must be earned through outperformance, and deliver value to shareholders that justifies the amount of pay earned: fundamentally, the relationship between pay and performance must create fairness between the new Director and shareholders: and ensure that there is fairness between the terms and conditions of employment of the new and existing Directors.
Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, any performance-related pay element arising from their previous role will generally continue on its original terms.
All of the components of pay set out in the policy table would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package, at levels up to the maximum values set out in that table.
Where the appointee has variable remuneration arrangements with a previous employer that will be lost on leaving employment, the Company will consider offering a sign-on award in compensation for the value foregone, either as an award under an existing share plan or a bespoke award under the Listing Rules exemption available for this purpose.
The face and or expected values of the award s offered will not materially exceed the value ascribed to the award s foregone, and would normally follow the same vesting timing and form cash or shares, save that the Committee may award the whole of the value in Lonmin shares at its discretion.
The application of performance conditions would be considered and, where appropriate, the awards could be made subject to claw-back and or malus in appropriate circumstances.
The Committee would, where practicable, consult with key institutional shareholders ahead of committing to make any such sign-on awards and a full explanation of any amounts awarded, an explanation of why this is necessary and a breakdown of the awards to be made would be announced to the markets at the time of granting.
In accordance with the policy table on page 99, we propose that new Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee for their appointment as a Director and serving on up to two Board Committees, with additional fees being payable in specific circumstances as explained in the table.
In certain cases, equivalent amounts are invoiced by the Directors employing companies.
No sign-on payments are offered to Non-executive Directors.
b Flexibility, discretion and judgement We believe that the total remuneration of the Executive Directors should reflect their performance in delivering the Companys strategy.
No remuneration policy and structure, however carefully designed and implemented, can ever pre-empt every possible scenario.
As a result, the application by the Committee of flexibility, discretion and judgement is crucial in achieving fair outcomes.
Flexibility is necessary in designing each years remuneration within the approved three-year policy, for example in devising appropriate metrics for the annual bonus plan to support short-term business imperatives.
Discretion is needed, amongst other things, in determining whether mechanistic or formulaic outcomes are fair, in context, and can be applied in an upward or downward manner.
For example, the assessment of the Balanced Scorecard may generate pay outcomes that need to be adjusted to reflect broader socio-economic realities or the Companys financial position and prospects.
Judgement is vital in setting individual targets and goals, for example in the Balanced Scorecard, which will be seen as reasonable by shareholders at threshold and realistically achievable by executives at stretch or in the detailed design or interpretation of performance conditions.
com Lonmin Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay continued b Flexibility, discretion and judgement continued English company law requires us to state the extent of discretion available to the Committee on any aspect of the Directors remuneration policy.
In addition to the above, while noting that there are three distinct concepts, the Committee has discretion as follows: Annual Bonus The Committee has discretion 1 to invite participants into the bonus programme, and determine the percentage of their salary which can be earned as a bonus at target and stretch subject to the plan rules, 2 to design performance measures and set targets for each financial year to incentivise business outcomes which are aligned with the strategic imperatives facing, or likely to be facing, the Company and to allocate weightings between these as it judges appropriate, 3 during each financial year, to amend the design of the Balanced Scorecard where material external factors render the original design inappropriate or inadvisable, 4 in assessing the formulaic outcomes of the Balanced Scorecard for the year, to apply its discretion upwards or downwards to ensure that the resulting bonus payment is fair a between shareholders and the Executive Directors and b between the Executive Directors, 5 in relation to leavers as provided for in the table set out on page 89, 6 on a change of control of the Company, to determine the amount, or a minimum amount, of bonus for that year taking into account such factors it considers appropriate, including performance and time-apportionment, the timing of payment and any additional terms which may apply to such payment, and 7 whether to settle bonus awards in cash or in shares and or defer payment.
Assuming shareholders adopt the new rules at the 2015 AGM, the Committee will have a further discretion to determine whether to apply clawback to all or part of any award in the circumstances set out in the table on page 89.
ASAP The Committee has similar discretions as under the Annual Bonus in relation to participation, award level, performance measures, targets and weightings, and amendments to the plan.
In addition, the Committee has discretion 1 to determine the form of awards whether a conditional allocation, restricted shares or nil-cost option and, in relation to options, the exercise period and whether any amount need be paid in order to exercise, 2 in relation to leavers as provided for in the table set out on page 91, 3 to determine whether awards vest on a restructuring of the Company, 4 to pay dividend equivalents on vested shares either in cash or in additional shares, and 5 to apply malus adjustments or, where relevant, clawback to all or part of any award in the circumstances set out in the table on page 91.
LTIP The Committee has discretion 1 to determine who is to participate in the plan and the levels of award to be made, 2 to set the performance measures and targets, and the weightings between them, to determine the vesting of awards, 3 in relation to leavers as provided for in the table set out on page 92, 4 on a change of control of the Company, to determine the level of vesting of awards based on performance and, unless the Committee considers it not to be appropriate, time apportionment, 5 to pay dividend equivalents on vested shares in cash or shares, 6 in relation to awards made after the 2014 AGM, to apply malus and or clawback to all or part of any award in the circumstances set out in the table on page 92, and 7 to determine the form of awards whether a conditional allocation, restricted shares or options and, in relation to options, the exercise period and any amount needed to be paid in order to exercise.
Shareholding obligation The Committee may opt to vary the length of the periods within which shareholdings are acquired, in appropriate circumstances and determine whether bonuses should be paid in shares to assist in meeting shareholding obligations.
c Service contracts Each of the Executive Directors is employed on a service contract governed by English law, and Mr Scott has a second employment contract with a South African subsidiary company governed by South African law.
These contracts place the following obligations on the Company which could give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office: to provide pay inclusive of Directors fees, contributions to a defined contribution pension arrangement or a cash supplement in lieu and benefits whether in cash or kind as specified in the contract, and to reimburse expenses incurred by the Director in performing their duties: to give the Director eligibility to participate in discretionary shortand long-term incentive plans: to provide 25 working days plus bank public holidays paid holiday per annum, or pay in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday on termination of employment: to provide sick pay as specified in the contract: subject to the termination, garden special leave and suspension provisions of the contract, to provide continued employment in the role to which the individual has been appointed: and to terminate the contact only on the expiry of 12 months written notice save in the event of a repudiatory breach of contract or in certain other very limited circumstances, or to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the value of the base salary, pension contributions and benefits in kind that would have been payable for the period of contractual notice subject to exercising the Companys discretion to make phased payments.
The treatment of shortand long-term incentives on termination is dealt with in the next section of this policy report.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay continued c Service contracts continued There are no relevant contractual provisions imposing an obligation on the Company which could give rise to or impact on remuneration payments or payments for loss of office specific to an individual Director.
It is not currently intended that future service contracts for Executive Directors would contain terms differing materially from those summarised above and in the policy table.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, any employee including Executive Directors will have statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy or retrenchment situation.
The Non-executive Directors have each entered into a letter of appointment with the Company and Services Agreements have been entered into with the respective employers of three Non-executive Directors.
These do not require any period of notice of termination, regardless of the circumstances, and have no provisions for compensation on termination.
No Executive Director is employed on a service contract entered into prior to 27 June 2012.
The Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
d Policy on payment for loss of office Notice periods for Executive Directors The Companys policy in this area seeks to protect shareholders interests.
The service contracts of the current Executive Directors are terminable on the expiry of: six months notice from the Director this means that, where no in-house successor has been identified, the Company would have time to replace the Executive Director through an orderly external recruitment process, and ideally have a period of handover: or twelve months notice from the Company this makes the individual a less attractive candidate for a prospective employer, given the time that will elapse before they could be sure of taking up their new employment, and also provides the Company with the ability to place a Director joining a competing employer on a lengthy period of garden special leave so that the information they possess becomes out of date.
The principles on which termination payments will be approached are as follows: Calculation of each component of payment severance payments Unless the Company is entitled to terminate employment summarily, the Executive Directors service contracts oblige the Company i to pay salary and pension allowance and maintain all contractual benefits for any unworked period of notice or ii at the option of the Company, to make a payment in lieu of such notice comprising the base salary that would otherwise have been paid.
The service contracts do not oblige us to pay short-term incentives for that part of the bonus year worked by the Director, but it is our custom and practice to do so, based on an assessment of personal and corporate performance to the date of exit, and subject to time apportionment.
As policy, the Committee will not pay bonus for any unworked period of notice, even though this is permitted in the plan rules.
In circumstances where the role is declared redundant or retrenched, the individual may have a legal right to statutory or other contractual redundancy pay.
The service contracts permit the Company, at its discretion, to decide that payments in lieu of notice may be phased in instalments over a period of no longer than 12 months and, further, that any payment can be reduced in accordance with the duty on the part of the executive to mitigate his or her loss.
In cases of poor performance, contractual termination payments may generate undue and potentially excessive reward.
Where appropriate, the Committee will consider terminating employment other than on the terms of the contract in other words, unilaterally terminating employment.
While the departing executive would be entitled to sue for damages for breach of contract, such damages would take into account any poor performance, the executives legal duty to mitigate their loss by finding alternative employment and the early payment of any amounts offered in settlement.
As such, this could be to the Companys benefit.
However, by breaching the contract the Company would lose the benefit of the typical restrictive covenants preventing poaching solicitation of staff, customers and suppliers, and protecting the Companys know-how and confidential information.
When felt necessary to protect the Companys interests the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing executives, including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality and or restrictive covenant agreements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is necessary, and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
com Lonmin Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay continued d Policy on payment for loss of office continued Calculation of each component of payment incentive plans The Companys shortand long-term incentive plans are all governed by formal rules which have been approved by shareholders.
Directors have no contractual rights to the value inherent in any awards held.
The table below explains how the plan rules address termination in different leaver scenarios: Good leaver being broadly redundancy or retrenchment, retirement, injury, ill-health or disability, death, the sale of the Company or that part of the Other leaver scenarios other than Plan business in which the Director was employed summary dismissal Summary dismissal The Balanced The Committees policy is that, as provided for No right to a bonus under No discretion will be Scorecard in the rules of the BSC, the Committee may the BSC but the Committee exercised in the Bonus Plan BSC permit a bonus payment in an amount no has discretion to treat other participants favour and so greater than that calculated after the usual year leavers in the same manner no bonus will be payable.
end audit and assurance processes and time as good leavers.
apportioned for the proportion of the financial year worked, although the Committee has the discretion to determine the bonus amount as of the date of leaving, taking into account such additional factors to the above as it considers appropriate.
Annual Share Award An award is not forfeited.
Our current policy is The Committee may Awards will lapse.
Plan to allow the award to be exercised within six determine that an award will months of the vesting date being the third not be forfeited in which case anniversary of the date of grant.
our current policy is to allow the award to be exercised within six months of the vesting date being the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Long-Term Incentive Awards ordinarily vest in accordance with their Awards lapse unless the Awards will lapse.
1 Plan normal vesting schedule to the extent to which Committee exercises its applicable performance conditions have been discretion to treat other 2 met and, unless the Committee determines leavers in the same manner 1,2 otherwise, time apportionment.
Awards granted as good leavers.
with an exercise period will be exercisable in the six months following vesting.
Except in cases of death-in-service, the Committees policy is not to vest any long-term incentive awards for leavers earlier than their normal vesting date unless exceptional circumstances exist.
Where leavers are permitted to retain awards which are subject to performance conditions, those conditions would normally be assessed at the end of the relevant period s, and any resulting reward then subject to time-apportionment.
In our experience, Directors can leave employment for a wide range of reasons which do not fall within the prescribed category of good leaver, encompassing a vast range of individual situations.
The Committee must retain discretion to approve payments to individuals falling into this middle ground to create sufficient differentiation, taking the Directors performance in office and their circumstances of their exit into account.
In doing so, the Committee will recognise and balance the interests of shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as the interests of the remaining and departing Directors.
If employment is terminated by the Company the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
If the Executive Director has relocated to perform their duties, the Committee has discretion to meet the reasonable costs associated with returning that individual and where relevant their family back to their country of origin and winding up their affairs in the country in which they worked for Lonmin, including meeting the incidental costs incurred in so doing.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Future policy Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors with extensive experience at strategic level, most often gained through operating at board level in relevant businesses, and ideally in a South African operating context.
They are required to attend Board and Committee meetings and other formal sessions both in South Africa and the UK, and to be available to the Chairman of the Board and other Directors as needed.
In addition, they are expected to familiarise themselves with the Companys business and the context in which it operates, and to maintain their technical skills and knowledge.
The Companys general approach is to offer fees at levels applicable in the UK market for companies of similar size, complexity and risk, and which reflect the travel commitment we require of the appointee.
No Non-executive Director receives any benefits in kind, relocation support, pension or performance-related payments.
As noted in the introduction to this Policy Report, we will seek shareholders approval for a new basis for the payment of fees to Non-executive Directors, to take effect from 1 February 2015.
Fee payable to Directors Any additional fees payable for any other duties to the Company Other items in the nature of remuneration Non-executive Directors other than The Senior Independent Director receives a fee of No other items in the nature of the Chairman are offered a base fee 10,000 per annum, in addition to his base fee.
remuneration are provided by the of 55,000 per annum for acting as a Company to its Non-executive Where individuals chair a Board Committee, they Director and serving as a member of Directors.
receive a fee of 10,000 per annum, in addition to up to two Board Committees, save their base fee.
where they were nominated to the Board by their employing companies.
Where individuals serve on more than two Board Committees, a fee of 5,000 per annum is offered for The Chairman is offered a fee of each additional Committee.
210,000 per annum for acting as a Director, serving as a member of up to Where the Company holds Board and or Committee two Board Committees and chairing meetings in addition to those scheduled, a fee of the Board.
2,000 per day is payable to every Non-executive Director for additional meeting attendance.
Fees to independent directors are payable in cash upfront for the first Where the individual provides additional services to year of appointment, reflecting the the Company or group companies outside the scope commitment necessary to undertake of their directorship, then the Company and or the a full induction programme including relevant group company may pay additional fees site and other visits and in-depth commensurate with the value of the services provided research.
Thereafter fees are paid by the individual.
in cash monthly in arrears.
Where the individuals serving as non-executive directors are employed by a third party, then the Company may instead be invoiced quarterly for a sum equal to the fees that would otherwise have been payable, to be settled in cash.
We believe that the change to the fee basis proposed should result in an overall reduction in fees payable to Non-executive Directors from the current arrangements, but this is dependent on the Company not holding material numbers of additional Board meetings, which will be essentially event-driven.
The only new component of pay is that for additional meeting attendance.
Taken together with the reduction in base fees, we believe that introducing this new fee creates a fairer basis of remuneration for the Non-executive Directors, as it is directly linked to the amount of work that they do.
These fees have historically been reviewed biennially, the last such review being in July 2013 and there was no increase to the base fee at that or any of the three preceding reviews.
The review which has recently occurred was undertaken to coincide with the review of Executive Director pay, so that we could propose a policy to shareholders which addressed the pay of every member of the Board.
The Company believes that the proposed levels of remuneration should be sufficient to secure the services of individuals with the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to support and oversee the Executive Directors, and who are likely to be credible to shareholders in their execution of the Boards approved strategies and operational plans.
Any future increase to any of the above fees will not exceed 10% annum.
No Non-executive Director receives any performance-related pay.
No amounts due to a Non-executive Director are subject to any recovery or withholding arrangements.
Non-executive Directors in receipt of fees from the Company are required to build a shareholding with a market value of 1x their annual base fee within five years of taking office.
Should this be achieved but the value then fall below this level, the individual has a period of three years in which to return to compliance.
com Lonmin Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Remuneration in the Year to 30 September 2014 This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys remuneration of its Executive and Non-executive Directors during the financial year ended 30 September 2014 FY2014, and will, together with the annual statement by the Committee Chairman, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM on 29 January 2015.
It has been prepared on the basis prescribed in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and also includes the items required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
8 R. Where required, data has been audited by KPMG LLP and is flagged accordingly.
Context Consideration of Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee the Committee is a Committee of the Board with delegated powers set out in its terms of reference, available on the Companys website.
These are reviewed periodically and updated where necessary.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: determine and agree with the Board the Companys executive remuneration strategy and policy: determine individual remuneration packages and terms of employment within that policy for the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and twelve other senior executives collectively known as the Purview Group : oversee the operation of the Companys incentive schemes, including designing and setting performance measures and targets for annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes: consider major changes in employee remuneration in the Group: select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee: report to shareholders through annual reports: and make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional advice: all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
Only independent Non-executive Directors are eligible to be members of the Committee.
Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Jonathan Leslie and Karen fide Segundo held office throughout the year, and Brian Beamish was appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 July 2014 when his appointment as Chairman of the Board was confirmed.
All continue in office at the date of this report.
The collective business experience of its members enables the Committee to offer a balanced, informed and independent view on remuneration.
The Committee met six times during FY2014.
In addition to scheduled meetings, there was an extra meeting in December 2013 to discuss detailed design issues on the LTIP and two additional sessions in September 2014 as part of our blue sky process to discuss the revised Directors remuneration policy.
As well as routine monitoring and approval activities, the material issues discussed were: November 2013 the Committee reviewed the auditors written opinion on the corporate metrics in the FY2013 BSC Plan, assessed performance against personal objectives, and considered whether the formulaic outcomes were reasonable in context.
The bonuses were approved for payment, and the granting of awards under the ASAP were approved.
The Committee reviewed the design of the FY2014 BSC Plan.
Comments from institutional investors on the draft Directors Remuneration Policy were discussed and final changes made to that policy, which was approved for proposal at the 2014 AGM.
Related changes to the LTIP were approved, as were the relevant sections of the AGM Circular.
The remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report for FY2013 was reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval.
December 2013 this was a one-off meeting at which the Committee decided on the precise terms of the clawback provisions to be included in the LTIP rules proposed for approval at the 2014 AGM, and approved the disclosure of the plan in the AGM Circular.
May 2014 the Committee reviewed the AGM voting results on remuneration-related resolutions, and views expressed by shareholders on pay.
Final approval was granted for the design of the FY2014 Balanced Scorecard and for a short-term consultancy arrangement with the outgoing chairman of the Board.
September 2014 first meeting as part of the redesign of directors remuneration, the Committee was provided with a detailed overview of South African market practice, the views of key institutional shareholders and an in-depth analysis of pay practices in our South African peer group of companies.
A similar analysis of UK market norms and shareholder views was also discussed.
The Committee then considered a number of key design parameters in relation to directors remuneration, and various options for how pay could be structured.
September 2014 second meeting at this scheduled meeting the Committee reviewed the severance policy in force for non-unionised employees in South Africa, and progress with the transformation objectives included as personal objectives for the Executive Directors in the FY2014 Balanced Scorecard.
The granting of awards under employee share plans, including to the Executive Directors, was discussed and the performance condition to which the vesting of those awards is subject was approved.
The Committee agreed to increase management TCTCs in South Africa by 6% though increases were waived by the Exco members, and the base salaries of those employed in or by reference to the UK in line with UK CPI of 1.6% though increases were waived by the Executive Directors.
Finally, the Committee reviewed the recently announced changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the remuneration of directors, and agreed how best to respond to these recommendations.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Context continued Consideration of Directors remuneration continued September 2014 third meeting having considered dilution issues, the Committee approved the basis of awards to be made under the long-term incentive plans.
The main purpose of this one-off meeting was a further blue sky session at which the Committee reviewed the long-term history of Lonmins share price and TSR performance relative to its peers, and the vesting history of the Companys shortand long-term incentive programmes.
With this context established, the Committee considered a draft structure for Directors pay and, subject to various changes it requested, approved this for shareholder consultation.
The attendance record of the Committee members is included in the table on page 59.
The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters to the Board and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Committee reports to shareholders annually in this report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
Meetings of the Committee commence with the members holding a private session.
In FY2014 meetings were attended by the CEO, the EVP Human Resources, the Head of Reward, the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and the Assistant Company Secretary, none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed, all of whom provide material assistance to the Committee.
The two additional meetings in September 2014 were attended by representatives of Hay Group and PwC South Africa, who have advised the Committee on the revised remuneration strategy.
When considering the fees for Non-executive Directors, the Board consulted with the CEO, the Committee and its Chairman.
When the fees to be offered to the new Chairman of the Board were being considered, the Nomination Committee consulted with members of the Committee and Board.
Advisors to the Committee During the year, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by the following external consultants: By whom appointed and Fees paid by the Company how, and whether on behalf Services provided for these services in FY2014, Other services provided Advisor of the Committee to the Committee and basis of charge to the Company in FY2014 The Hay Group Appointed by Jim General advice on 33,750 None Management Limited Sutcliffe as Chairman remuneration matters Charged on a time cost London office of the Committee Advice on UK market basis, adjusted to reflect following a competitive practice and UK the value of the work tender process shareholder perspectives KPMG LLP Appointed by Rob Assurance in the form The cost of this External auditor and Bellhouse, as Secretary of limited, specific assurance is included certain other services to the Committee checking procedures on in the global audit fee see the Audit & Risk the results of the BSC Committee Report and note 4 to the accounts  Appointed by Jim General advice on R125,000 Other South African Tax Services Pty Ltd Sutcliffe as Chairman remuneration matters entities in the PwC group Charged on a time cost Johannesburg office of the Committee Advice on SA market provide specialist support basis following a competitive practice and SA to the internal audit tender process shareholder perspectives function see the Audit & Risk Committee Report  Appointed by Roger Independent 8,000 IFRS2 valuations of LLP London office Phillimore, then Chairman measurement of share schemes and Charged on a time cost of the Committee performance conditions certain minor financial basis evaluation tasks Herbert Smith Freehills Appointed by Rob Advice on law and Legal fees relate to General UK and LLP Bellhouse, as Company regulation in relation to advice provided to EU legal advice Secretary for the employment and share the Company and not Company scheme matters is the Committee, and provided to the Company are charged on a and is available to the time cost basis Committee The Committee has not expressly considered whether the advice received from these professional firms was objective and independent, but reflects on the quality of the advice as part of its normal deliberations.
The Committee is confident that none of these cross-relationships generates an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the sums payable in respect of each service do not compromise the objectivity and impartiality of the others.
com Lonmin Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Context continued Performance and pay The chart below shows how an investment in the Companys shares on 1 October 2008 has changed in value over the six financial years ended on 30 September 2014.
Our shares are listed and traded in the UK and South Africa so for comparative purposes we also show how investments in the shares of companies comprising the FTSE UK Mining Index and the JSE Platinum Index have changed in value over the same period.
These comparators were chosen by the Committee as they comprise companies listed on the same markets and engaged in similar activities to the Company and, in the case of the JSE Platinum Index, producing the same commodities in the same location.
250 200 150 100 50 0 Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 JSE Platinum Index Lonmin JSE FTSE Mining Index Lonmin LSE Footnote: 1.
In accordance with the Regulations, the chart assumes that dividends and other distributions were reinvested on the date that these became receivable, and that any liabilities for example, funding the subscription price for a rights issue were met through a tail swallow at the point immediately before that liability fell due.
The pay of the CEO for each of those financial years was: Year FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 CEO single figure of total remuneration see below 1 Ian Farmer 1,601,502 1,834,335 1,517,387 855,805 n a n a 2 Simon Scott n a n a n a 63,847 995,729 n a 3 Ben Magara n a n a n a n a 703,167 565,387 4 Total 1,601,502 1,834,335 1,517,387 919,652 1,698,896 565,387 Annual bonus paid against maximum opportunity % Ian Farmer 55% 66% 39% 0% n a n a Simon Scott n a n a n a 37% 77% n a 3 Ben Magara n a n a n a n a 72% 0% Long-term incentive vesting against maximum opportunity % Ian Farmer 33% 0% 8% 0% n a n a 5 Simon Scott n a n a n a n a 0% n a 6 Ben Magara n a n a n a n a n a n a The table above does not reflect the general decline in value of awards since the companys share price reached an all-time high in early 2008.
As a consequence, both vested and outstanding awards have generally had and have vastly lower values than the face value at granting.
Historic data for Ian Farmer is taken from the remuneration reports for the relevant years, but recast on the basis for the single figure prescribed in the Regulations.
His FY2012 CEO remuneration is for a period of 11 months, after which he ceased to act in that capacity as a result of serious ill-health.
Historic data for Simon Scott is taken from the remuneration reports for the relevant years, but recast on the basis for the single figure prescribed in the Regulations.
FY2012 relates to 1 month serving as Acting CEO, and FY2013 relates to 9 months serving in that capacity.
Ben Magara served as CEO for the 3 months commencing 1 July 2013.
% 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Context continued 4.
For ease of comparison, an aggregate of pay to the Director undertaking the role of the CEO in each year is included.
Simon Scott joined the Company and Board in September 2010.
As our long-term incentives have three-year vesting periods, only one tranche of awards reached their vesting date during the period covered by the table.
Although Mr Scott had ceased to serve as Acting CEO prior to that date, the outcome is included for completeness.
Ben Magara joined the Company and Board in July 2013 and no long-term incentive awards have reached their vesting dates.
The Committees goal is to design and implement remuneration arrangements which ensure that performance and pay are linked.
Any formulaic approach has the potential to deliver inappropriate outcomes and the Committee therefore generally has discretion to adjust those mathematical results where it sees fit.
While pay must be justified by performance, it is equally fair that where performance falls short, there is no payment.
We believe that our track record illustrates this.
We operate shortand long-term incentive arrangements: BSC bonus plan this short-term incentive plan is used to incentivise operational actions and outcomes, because these are under managements control or influence.
As a single commodity, single site business, Lonmins financial outcomes are highly influenced by PGM prices and foreign exchange.
However, we design the bonus plan to limit the impact of these external and non-controllable effects.
LTIP this long-term incentive plan is used to drive performance over the longer term measured over three-year periods and to create a clear alignment between executives and shareholders interests.
The measures we have chosen to use generally reflect shareholders experience, including the impact of PGM prices and foreign exchange, as well as the payment of dividends.
The Company has not delivered value for shareholders for a number of years.
com Lonmin Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Context continued Relative importance of spend on pay To place the Directors remuneration in the context with the Groups finances more generally, the Committee uses the following comparisons: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 Difference Item $m $m $m Remuneration of Group employees of which: 543 716 173 Remuneration of Executive Directors 2 4 2 Remuneration of Non-executive Directors 1 2 1 Distributions to shareholders Other significant distributions of profit or cash-flow: Capital expenditure 93 159 66 The apparent year-on-year reduction in the remuneration costs of Group employees results from two main causes: a the five month long strike during which striking employees being the vast majority of the workforce were not paid and b the effects of converting into US dollars the remuneration that was paid in the year, which was overwhelmingly dominantly in Rands.
There were no dividends declared or paid in the year, and no share buy-backs were undertaken.
Capital expenditure has been included in the table as the board must choose whether to distribute profits and cash-flows by way of dividend, or reinvest these in developing our assets to maintain or improve the operational health of the Company.
In any mining business a minimum level of sustaining capex is essential and may on occasion preclude the payment of dividends.
All of these amounts are presented as shown in the Companys audited financial statements.
Directors remuneration in FY2015 Assuming the proposed Directors remuneration policy is approved by shareholders, it will become binding on the Company on 1 February 2015 and will be implemented as explained in this policy report.
The changes from the current policy, which will remain in force to the end of January 2015 are explained in the footnotes to the policy tables for Executive Directors on page 93 and Non-executive Directors on page 99.
As much as 70% of the total reward offered to Executive Directors is subject to meeting performance conditions: BSC Bonus and ASAP at its November 2014 meeting the Committee approved the Balanced Scorecard design for FY2015.
English law makes any definitive statements in this policy report binding on the Company for the duration of the policy, and does not permit any variation without shareholder approval.
The Committee therefore does not believe that it is in shareholders interests to state the design of the FY2015 BSC Bonus within this report.
However, a summary of the measures and weightings to be used has been made available on the Companys website, but does not form part of this remuneration report.
In the opinion of the Directors, the targets set for the performance measures are commercially sensitive or could, if made public, cause regulatory complications for the Company.
As permitted by the Regulations, those targets are not being disclosed in advance but in line with our practice over many years there will be full retrospective disclosure in the 2015 Annual Report.
LTIP the performance measures and their weightings are set out in the policy table for Executive Directors on page 92.
The Committee has not yet undertaken the detailed design, testing and calibration work necessary to set the specific targets and vesting schedules, which will be a priority task ahead of the first awards being made, which we expect to be in August 2015.
It is likely that we will consult further with key institutional shareholders on the proposed design.
We anticipate including full details of the performance conditions and vesting schedule in the regulatory announcement of the granting of these awards.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 Single total figures for Directors remuneration Executive Directors 1 2 Ben Magara Simon Scott Total Calculation note s FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 Fixed pay Salary & fees 112,500 462,150 416,738 334,650 529,238 796,800 Taxable benefits 3 6,673 10,807 21,643 16,101 28,316 26,908 Pension-related benefits 4 22,500 92,430 83,346 66,930 105,846 159,360 Sub-total 141,673 565,387 521,727 417,681 663,400 983,068 Performance-related pay Money assets received or receivable for the year Short-term incentives 5 201,496 805,912 1,007,408 Other incentives 6 359,998 359,998 Long-term incentives 7 Sub-total 561,494 805,912 1,367,406 Total 703,167 565,387 1,327,639 417,681 2,030,806 983,068 This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG LLP.
FY2013 data is from 1 July 2013, the date he joined the Company.
In FY2013 paid as Acting CEO for eleven months to 31 August 2013 and then reverted to CFO salary, after completion of a handover period.
Taxable benefits is the gross value of all benefits, whether provided in cash or kind, that are or would if provided in the UK, have been chargeable to UK income tax.
These comprise the cash-settled car allowance, private medical insurance, where the costs are borne by the employer advice and support in relation to cross-border tax and exchange control obligations and access to independent professional advice.
No individual component of taxable benefits paid in FY2014 is felt to create a significant cost.
Pension is shown as the amounts paid by the employer to defined contribution plans or salary supplement provided in lieu of such contributions.
Bonus is stated for the financial year in respect of which it is earned.
Please see the section titled BSC Bonus Plan below for details of the assessment of the FY2014 bonus plan.
Mr Magara joined the Company on 1 July 2013 and received a Recruitment Award, full details of which can be found on page 93.
This is included in the table at the face value of the award, as shown in the scheme interests table on page 110.
Despite being a multi-year award vesting in three annual tranches, it falls within a definition contained in the Regulations and must be presented as current year earnings in the year of grant.
Please see the section titled Directors shareholdings and share interests on page 111 for further details.
Looking at each element of pay in more detail: Base salary base salaries for the two Executive Directors in FY2014 were 462,150 for Ben Magara and 334,650 for Simon Scott.
Both directors waived their entitlement to an increase on 1 October 2014 and their salaries remain unchanged.
com Lonmin Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Executive Directors continued Short-term incentives settled in cash: the BSC Bonus Plan the Committees aim in FY2014 was to incentivise management to build on the operational momentum achieved in FY2013 and also to achieve meaningful progress with the Groups transformation programme.
The Balanced Scorecard set out below contains operational metrics aligned with the Companys strategic objectives and which closely follow the corporate KPIs shown on pages 32 to 34.
The Committee also included specific metrics on key transformational goals, and used progress towards the five social interventions announced by the board at the 2013 AGM as the personal metrics for the Executive Directors and other members of the Exco.
Sadly, the year was dominated by the five month-long strike, and a full context is set out in the Committee Chairmans letter.
The operational results for the year were as follows: Formulaic % of bonus outcome for opportunity on the year Target Actual offer for target % of bonus Strategic element Metric performance performance performance opportunity Safety: improvement in lost time injury Percentage improvement 5% 4.6% 15.0 14.6 frequency rate LTIFR, with factor on FY2013 LTIFR with improvement improvement applied for fatalities multiplier 0 2x, 1 1x, in LTIFR to 3.34, 2 0.5x, 3 0.25x, to 3.33 but one 4 or more 0x, and fatality no payment Transformation: HDSAs in senior Percentage of HDSA candidates 38% 36% 7.5 1.9 management roles Grades D Upper in post at 30 September 2014 and above Transformation: reaching 26% Subjective assessment of Complete Agreement 7.5 3.8 HDSA equity participation progress with projects the process reached with planned to deliver 26% and meet the Bapo, empowerment the target engagement on or before on planned 30 September implementation 2014 of ESOP 1 Operational: Platinum production Troy ounces of finished 780,000 436,000 15.0 0.0 metal produced Operational: available ore reserves Square metres of UG2 ore 2,506,000 2,403,000 5.0 0.0 2 reserves available for mining Operational: instantaneous recovery rate Percentage of contained 85.0% 86.2% 5.0 7.5 metals recovered % Financial: Unit Costs per PGM ounce Cost in rand terms per PGM R9,645 R13,538 15.0 0.0 ounce produced 6E basis Financial: net cash at year end Net cash balance in US Dollars $219m $ 29m 10.0 0.0 on 30 September 2014 Sub-total: Corporate KPIs 80.0 27.8 Personal Progress with five key 20.0 11.5 transformation objectives Total 100.0 39.3 Footnotes: 1.
We incentivise production rather than sales to eliminate the impact that would otherwise result from stocks of finished metals held at year ends.
Subject to an underpin in respect of the maintenance of Merensky ore reserves ready for mining.
The Committee recognises and appreciates the Executive Directors hard work and achievements during what was a very difficult year.
Despite their best efforts the impact of the strike meant that the outcomes for shareholders were disappointing, and the Committee judged that the payment of a bonus or the corresponding grant of an ASAP award could not be justified.
The Committee therefore applied its discretion to the formulaic outcome and reduced the overall result to zero.
As no BSC bonus was awarded, no ASAP award will be made to the Executive Directors.
In reaching this decision, the Committee was also cognisant that the second phase of the 2014 LTIP award was still intended to be granted in December 2014.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Executive Directors continued Short-term incentives settled in shares: the ASAP no awards will be made under the ASAP in December 2014.
For further details of the ASAP, please refer to the policy table on page 91 and the section headed Directors shareholdings and scheme interests on page 111.
Long-term incentives the LTIP a Performance conditions for long-term incentive awards The vesting of LTIP awards made to the Executive Directors is subject to performance conditions aligned with the delivery of corporate strategy and the creation of value for shareholders.
In 2010 the Committee consulted with key institutional shareholders on a performance condition designed to recognise, at a low level, the sustained hard work required in difficult times before the result is reflected in the share price.
A number of options were discussed and the Committee concluded that it would adopt a performance condition which combined: The corporate elements of the BSC, which are , averaged over three financial years: and Relative TSR measured over a three-year period.
This metric has always been used by Lonmin as a performance condition, ensuring that executive remuneration reflects actual returns delivered to shareholders.
The relative nature of this test creates an objective metric of long-term value delivery to shareholders which is largely independent of the short-term variability introduced into reported results by volatile metal prices and exchange rates particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar.
Mining is a long-term industry, and we recognise that a three-year performance period is a relatively short time.
However, we believe that by imposing stretching shareholding obligations we can achieve long term alignment with shareholders, as a change in the value of a personal investment has a greater impact on the individual than an opportunity loss on an unvested award.
This approach has been used since 2010, but will be changed within the new remuneration policy.
The matrix below illustrates the vesting outcomes as a percentage of the face value of the award, with full interpolation between the points shown for LTIP awards: % of face value vesting RTSR result Factor Average BSC performance over three years BSC result Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Max Factor 0.0x 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x RTSR performance Below median 5% pa 0.0x 0% 0% 0% 0% Median 5% pa 0.5x 0% 8.33% 16.66% 25% Median 1.0x 0% 16.66% 33.33% 50% Median 5% pa 1.5x 0% 25% 50% 75% Median 10% pa or more 2.0x 0% 33.33% 66.66% 100% Factors are multiplied and, as maximum is 2.0 x 1.5 3, the result is then divided by 3 RTSR is assessed independently using data normalised into US Dollars, sourced from Datastream or other independent providers and our model deliberately emphasises this factor even with every BSC item delivering at stretch over three consecutive years, if we delivered median RTSR then only 50% of the award would vest.
It is important that the comparator group comprises relevant peer companies.
From 2010 onwards, we have used a comparator group of listed primary PGM producers.
In 2013 the Committee decided that Stillwater was no longer a directly comparable business as its operations are in the USA and so it operates in a different socio-economic environment, it is a palladium-dominated business and had recently acquired base metal assets.
As a result Royal Bafokeng Platinum, a JSE-listed South African platinum producer, replaced Stillwater in the comparator group used from 2013 onwards.
As a result, we now compare ourselves to a group of pure-play PGM mining peers, all whom operate principally in South Africa: Awards made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 Awards made in 2013 and 2014 Aquarius Platinum Aquarius Platinum Anglo American Platinum Anglo American Platinum Impala Platinum Impala Platinum Northam Platinum Northam Platinum Stillwater Mining Company Royal Bafokeng Platinum Small peer groups of similar businesses can lead to perverse outcomes where results are tightly clustered.
If a ranking approach is used, small differences in RTSR can lead to large differences in rank.
To avoid this risk, we compare Lonmins TSR performance to the median of the group and calculate our relative performance, expressed as a % pa differential.
com Lonmin Plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Executive Directors continued b Outcomes in FY2014 In August 2014 an award held by Simon Scott reached its normal maturity date, being the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Full details are set out in the scheme interests table on page 110.
The BSC factor across the three financial years FY2011 to FY2013 amounted to 0.73 see vesting table above, but the TSR was 9.4% per annum below the comparator group median.
The award therefore did not vest and no shares or cash were transferred Mr Scott.
No discretion was considered or applied by the Committee.
Other earnings of Executive Directors Ben Magara serves as a non-executive director of Foskor.
The Committee has resolved that he should be allowed to retain the benefits of the fees payable for this appointment which amounted to R57,200 during FY2014.
No other paid external appointment is held by either Executive Director.
c Awards in FY2014 While our policy is to grant LTIP awards to the Executive Directors on the basis of a stated percentage of salary, the Committee is conscious that this might lead to excessive dilution, given recent declines in the share price.
With this in mind, LTIPs will be spread across two tranches in 2014 the first tranche was granted in late September over the same number of shares as in the prior year but with a lower face value, and representing a lower percentage of salary.
It is currently intended to make a further grant of awards under the LTIP in December 2014, which will complete the award programme for the calendar year.
In line with the policy, both tranches of awards vest subject to achieving the existing performance condition, being RTSR multiplied by the averaged BSC outcome over three years.
Should shareholders approve the new policy at the 2015 AGM, we intend to substitute the new performance condition in respect of both tranches of awards.
Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors are currently paid at levels we believe to be market median for a comparable London-listed company, while reflecting the international travel commitment expected.
The basis of the fees is stated in the policy table on page 99, but is essentially a base fee plus additional fees for Committee service or Chairmanship.
As noted in the policy table on page 99, it is intended to reduce the fees of Non-executive Directors with the adoption of the new policy.
Additional fees are payable for service as Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
To 30 April 2014, the date of his retirement as a Director.
From 1 November 2013, the date of his appointment as a Director.
Mr Beamish received a chairmanship fee from 1 May 2014, when he first took office.
He joined the Remuneration Committee on 21 July 2014, and ceased to be a member of the SET and SHE Committees on 11 September 2014.
To 30 January 2014, the date of his retirement as a Director.
Mr Seedat provides ad hoc consultancy services to the Company under a separate consultancy agreement.
His payments in Rand pursuant to this agreement have been converted into s using the average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2014 of 1 R17.4825 FY2013: R14.4238.
See page 113 for further details.
In response to crisis conditions in FY2013 Mr Seedat re-joined the Executive Committee and increased very materially the number of days per month he committed to the Company.
His daily rate was increased to reflect the value of the services being provided to R25,000 per day, which the Committee was advised was in line with market norms for services of the type provided.
Mr Seedat reverted to his originally contracted number of days per month and previous daily rate of R11,700 per day from the start of FY2014.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Executive Directors continued The current Directors Remuneration Policy permits a fee to be paid for the chairmanship of the Board of up to 200,000 per annum, being the level at which Mr Phillimore was paid for these services.
In recognition of the Companys circumstances, Mr Beamish has agreed to accept a reduced chairmanship fee of 150,000 per annum, which has been paid to him since taking office on 1 May 2014.
Mr Sutcliffe became chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 May 2014, but waived his right to the additional fee offered for that role.
He therefore waived his entitlement to fees of 2,083 during the year.
The basis of the fees payable to Non-executive Directors is set out in the policy report on page 99.
Phuti Mahanyele, Gary Nagle and Paul Smith were nominated as Directors by their employing companies, who hold shares in the Company or other Group companies.
In light of this relationship, no fees are payable to the individual and their respective employer invoices the Company for an amount equal to the fee that would otherwise have been earned for their service as a Director, including any membership of Board Committees.
No part of this benefit passes to the individual concerned.
Percentage change in the CEOs remuneration The remuneration comparison required by the Regulations is made complex by Simon Scotts tenure as Acting CEO following Ian Farmers unfortunate health-related retirement, prior to Ben Magara joining the Board on 1 July 2013.
The CEO change figure shown in the table below compares the remuneration of Ben Magara in FY2014 12 months with that of Simon Scott 9 months and Ben Magara 3 months in FY2013.
Year-on-Year Year-on-Year change: change: group CEO employees Item % % Base salary 7.2% 17.0 % Taxable benefits 52.8 % 5.3 % Short-term incentives 100.0 % 21.9 % Footnote: 1.
The year-on-year comparator relates to all employees of the Group as required by the Regulations and is on a per capita basis, and is expressed in local currency terms.
The remuneration of group employees was affected by the five month long strike during which the striking employees were not paid.
The apparent increase for the CEO reflects a the distorting effect of the lower pay given to the Acting CEO for 9 months of the prior year and b the 2.7% increase, in line with UK CPI, given to Mr Magara on 1 October 2013.
Although the percentage change in the value of taxable benefits appears high, the actual sums involved were relatively small.
No short-term incentives were paid to the CEO in respect of FY2014.
Directors pension entitlements No Director who served during the year ended 30 September 2014 has any prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension or a cash benefit arrangement as defined in s152, Finance Act 2004.
This disclosure has been audited by KPMG LLP.
The Company provides a contractual life assurance benefit of four times salary to Simon Scott and Ben Magara, through an insured arrangement.
The Executive Directors are provided with a pension supplement, which may be taken either as a pension contribution to a defined contribution plan, or in cash.
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of its UK employees.
In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry-wide defined contribution pension plan.
Simon Scott and Ben Magara have opted to join the South African defined contribution plan and the Company contributes an amount equal to 20.52% of the 60% of the base salary paid to Simon Scott for his South African employment, and the 70% of Ben Magaras pay delivered through our South African payroll.
No element of any Directors remuneration other than base salary is pensionable.
Scheme interests awarded in FY2014 and held by Directors The table below shows all scheme interests held by the Executive Directors, including those granted in the year ended 30 September 2014.
No awards of this nature were made during the year to, or are held by, any Non-executive Director.
The only awards currently structured as share options are those under the ASAP.
As noted on page 91, this plan effectively forms our bonus deferral arrangement, and we chose to utilise a nil-cost option structure with the face value of the award equating to the deferred bonus that would otherwise have been payable.
Key to plans: LTIP Nil cost restricted share awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan which vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant see page 92 : ASAP nil cost options granted under the Annual Share Award Plan which vest on the third anniversary of grant and may then be exercised until the tenth anniversary of grant, at the recipients discretion see page 91 : Recruitment and Special one-off nil-cost restricted share awards to acquire market-purchased shares, in each case made pursuant to LR 9.4.
Key to performance conditions: a Average of the corporate element of the BSC of three financial years and RTSR compared to PGM peers over same three year period see page 107 : b No performance condition other than continued service during three vesting period see page 91 : c Average of corporate element of BSC of three financial years and average of personal performance measured in the BSC over same three year period see page 107.
Face value has been calculated using a strike price adjusted for the 2012 Rights Issue where relevant.
The strike prices were calculated using the average of the closing mid-market share price of Lonmin shares trading on the LSE during the following periods the price below is adjusted for 2012 Rights Issue, where relevant : Date of Grant Plan Date range Price 03 08 2011 LTIP 20 dealing days ending 30.06.2011 7.7423 27 09 2013 LTIP 20 dealing days ending 31.07.2013 2.9670 29 09 2014 LTIP 20 dealing days ending 29.08.2014 2.22965 12 12 2011 ASAP 20 dealing days ending 09.12.2011 5.4494 15 01 2013 ASAP 20 dealing days ending 14.01.2013 2.9501 09 12 2013 ASAP 20 dealing days ending 06.12.2013 3.1844 07 11 2012 Special Award 20 dealing days ending 30.01.2013 3.2000 10 07 2013 Recruitment Award 20 dealing days ending 28.06.2013 2.7628 4.
Mr Magara was appointed as a Director from 1 July 2013.
Mr Magaras Recruitment Award is subject to vesting in three equal tranches on 31.05.14, 31.05.15 and 31.05.16.
For further details please see page 93.
Mr Scotts Special Award was made partly in lieu of an LTIP award, and in recognition of the exceptional circumstances of 2012.
Mr Farmer retired as a Director on 31 December 2012.
Subject to the Remuneration Committees discretion, dividend equivalents may be payable when LTIP awards vest.
Neither dividends nor dividend equivalents are payable in respect of ASAP options.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Directors shareholdings and scheme interests All Directors are required to build and maintain a personal investment in Lonmin shares, linked to their base salary or fee for the CEO 300% of base salary, for other Executive Directors 200% of base salary and for Non-executive Directors 100% of their base fee.
This should be achieved within five years of the earlier of a the policy coming into effect on 1 August 2010 or b taking office.
Once this has been achieved, should the market value fall below the required level the compliance must be re-achieved within three years.
Using the Companys closing share price of 185.8p on 30 September 2014 save as noted below, the serving Directors compliance with these obligations was as follows: Achievement at 30 September Obligation multiple of Last date at which Obligation to be met or earlier date Director salary NED base fee obligation met on or before of retirement Current Directors 1 Brian Beamish 100% 1 November 2018 Len Konar 100% 31 January 2013 31 January 2016 53% Jonathan Leslie 100% 18 February 2013 18 February 2016 51% Ben Magara 300% 1 July 2018 22% Simon Scott 200% 27 September 2015 15% Karen fide Segundo 100% 1 August 2015 22% Jim Sutcliffe 100% 6 March 2014 6 March 2017 62% Former Directors 2 David Munro 100% 30 January 2014 n a 128% 3 Roger Phillimore 100% 30 April 2014 n a 361% 2 Mahomed Seedat 100% 30 January 2014 n a 527% Footnotes: 1.
Position stated at 30 January 2014, date of retirement from the Board when the shares closed at 311p.
Position stated at 30 April 2014, date of retirement from the Board when the shares closed at 283.5p.
com Lonmin Plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Directors remuneration in FY2014 continued Directors shareholdings and scheme interests continued Phuti Mahanyele, Gary Nagle and Paul Smith are not remunerated by the Company for serving as Non-executive Directors and so the Board does not impose any shareholding obligation on them.
Their respective employing companies, who nominated them as Directors, have material investments in the Company or its operating subsidiaries.
The interests of the Directors who served during FY2014 at the end of that year or earlier date of retirement as a Director in the shares of the Company are as follows: Scheme interests: 1 2 Shares Options and awards over shares Subject to Not subject to performance performance Director Note conditions conditions Total Current Directors 3 Brian Beamish 3 Len Konar 14,200 Jonathan Leslie 13,720 Ben Magara 53,644 585,306 118,505 703,811 Simon Scott 26,405 474,218 195,489 669,707 Karen fide Segundo 5,852 Jim Sutcliffe 16,700 Former Directors 4 David Munro 4 21,560 5 Roger Phillimore 5 70,000 4 Mahomed Seedat 4 84,730 This table and associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG LLP.
Shares includes any owned by connected persons.
Scheme interests comprise awards over shares being the LTIP, Special Award and Recruitment Award and options the ASAP.
Please refer to page 110 for further details.
Please refer to the section above titled scheme interests awarded in FY2014 and held by Directors for full details of scheme interests and of any awards vesting, exercised or lapsing in the year.
No share option has vested but remains unexercised.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the Companys shares from 30 September 2014 to the date of this report.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 Other required disclosures Service contracts As noted on page 96, no Executive Director has a service contact with a notice period in excess of one year, or which requires compensation on termination exceeding the value of one years salary and contractual benefits.
All service contracts are drafted on an evergreen, rather than fixed term, basis, so the unexpired term would always equal the notice period.
Payments to former Directors The Company has incurred costs in relation to three former Directors during FY2014: Mahomed Seedat is party to a contractual arrangement with a Lonmin Group company, as disclosed in the single figure remuneration table for Non-executive Directors on page 108: Ian Farmer, who resigned as a Director and CEO of the Company in December 2012, remains an employee of the Company, but on disability leave with no duties.
As such, he continues to participate in the Companys life assurance and private medical insurance arrangements in the same way as any other employee: and Roger Phillimore, the former Chairman of the Board, entered into a consultancy arrangement with the Company to provide support to the new Chairman in the months of May and June 2014.
The total cost met by the Company was 20,000.
No other payments of money or other assets were made during FY2014 to any former Director of the Company.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments in relation to loss of office during FY2014.
Voting on remuneration matters At the AGM on 30 January 2014 two votes were considered in relation to Directors remuneration: the binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report.
The voting results were: Votes for and Votes against and Proportion of Shares on which Resolution percentage of votes cast percentage of votes cast share capital voting votes were withheld Remuneration policy 397,198,255 82.8% 82,594,144 17.2% 84.3% 1,018,000 Remuneration report 426,686,590 89.4% 50,818,593 10.6% 83.9% 3,304,733 The Committee has reviewed the voting results and while it did not believe that a significant percentage of votes were cast against either resolution, was concerned that it had not received more fulsome support, particularly in relation to the policy vote.
The vast majority of the dissent arose on the South African share register.
Extensive discussions took place with investors both prior to and after the AGM and the points raised tended to arise from their local perspectives on what is a typical FTSE350 remuneration policy.
The views of these investors are very important and the material points discussed have helped shape the revised policy to be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
These results were an improvement on those at the 2013 AGM, at which the advisory vote under the regime that preceded the Regulations was carried 71 29, with holders of around 3% of the equity withholding their votes.
Having engaged with institutional shareholders and their representative bodies before and after that AGM, the Committee had a clear understanding that the dissent related to decisions taken in or in respect of FY2012, and not from any fundamental disagreements over policy.
For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.
com 114 Financial Statements Our balance sheet remains strong with net debt contained to $29 million at 30 September 2014 despite the impact of the strike.
03 Financial Statements 115 03 116 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc only 120 Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts 121 Consolidated Income Statement 121 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 122 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 123 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 124 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 125 Notes to the Accounts 165 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet 166 Notes to the Company Accounts WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO THE CREATION OF MAXIMUM VALUE FROM OUR ASSET BASE.
THE CASH CONSERVATION ACTIONS THAT WE IMPLEMENTED DURING AND AFTER THE STRIKE AS WELL AS THE BETTER THAN ANTICIPATED PRODUCTION RAMP UP HAVE POSITIONED US WELL GOING FORWARD.
FUNDING PROFITABILITY CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMME Our net debt was $29 million Our profitability reduced We continue to prioritise at 30 September 2014 significantly due to the our capital expenditure to and we have significant strike.
Whilst revenue maximise cash generation headroom in our banking was adversely affected by in the short-term as facilities which stood at lower PGM prices, our markets remain depressed $575 million at that date.
decisive cash conservation while protecting value in measures and the weaker the long-term.
Rand contributed to containing costs.
