Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 52 Remuneration Overview Key remuneration points for the year Our remuneration While salaries for all employees in the UK were increased on average by 2%, the executive directors requested not to be framework is considered for any salary increase.
The Committee believes in pay for performance, and ensures designed to that targets set are stretching and linked to those measures necessary to ensure the long-term success of M&S.
Annual ensure the longbonus measures are primarily financial, but also include a number of nonfinancial measures in order to ensure a term sustainable balanced view of the Companys performance.
While each director made good progress against their individual objectives, success the Underlying Group Pro t Before Tax PBT achieved was below the threshold target set by the Committee and so of M&S.
no bonus was therefore payable in respect of financial or individual targets.
Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2011 were Steven Holliday measured for the three-year period up to 29 March 2014 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee against challenging Earnings Per Share EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Revenue targets.
As a result On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our 2014 of performance against these targets, executive directors Remuneration Report.
The report is split into two distinct will receive only 7.6% of the original award: these will vest in sections and in accordance with the new regulations, you will July 2014. be asked to vote separately on these reports at our AGM in July 2014.
Minor amendments proposed to remuneration arrangements for 2014 15 Our remuneration framework is designed to ensure our To ensure we continue to align our remuneration arrangements business is run by high-quality leaders with the skills and with the Companys future strategic priorities and stakeholder expertise necessary to support the delivery of our business views, we are proposing some minor amendments this coming priorities.
We believe that the remuneration policy which you year.
These are discussed at length on pages 65, 67 and 70, approved in 2011 continues to remain appropriate.
As a result, but in summary: while our remuneration report has changed this year, our remuneration framework has remained consistent with what Awards under the Annual Bonus Scheme will remain capped was introduced at that time.
at 200% of salary, with 50% of any award being deferred into shares for three years.
Strategic alignment of executive remuneration The Committee believes that a well-designed remuneration policy 60% of the bonus will continue to be measured against pro t supports and drives the business strategy.
Three years ago, we targets, but for our trading directors, this will now be split began our transformation programme to modernise M&S from equally between Group performance and the performance of being a traditional British retailer to a multi-channel, international their individual business unit.
Stretching performance measures in our Annual Bonus We have also simpli ed the measures used in the Annual Scheme and Performance Share Plan re ect the targeted Bonus Scheme, reducing the number of individual delivery of our key business priorities, such as the ef cient performance measures from four to three but giving each an investment in store environments, IT systems, our distribution increased weighting.
The Committee believes this targeted network and the launch of the new M&S.
focus on our key strategic priorities will support and drive the Our remuneration framework is designed to motivate and focus on the turnaround of General Merchandise and the reward decisions which will ensure the long-term sustainable ongoing success of our Food business.
success of M&S while also striving for excellent results.
For example, a signi cant part of performance-related Re ecting that Plan A our environmental and ethical plan is pay is delivered through shares, three years from grant.
an integral driver of how we do business at M&S, success This maintains the principle that our leaders have against Plan A targets will now act as an underpin to the signi cant long-term investment in our business, aligned bonus scheme.
Overview Overview Overview Strategic r Strategic r Strategic report eport eport Gover Gover Governance finance finance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po or rt t a an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s 20 201 14 4 5 53 3 Should there be a signi cant variance to our Plan A achievements versus objectives, the Committee shall have discretion to adjust individual payments accordingly.
Further details on this are provided on page 65.
This will ensure that achievement against the performance measures will not be to the detriment of our ethical and environmental principles.
The performance targets for the 2014 15 Performance Share Plan were reviewed to ensure they remain stretching, and incentivise and challenge executive directors.
Following feedback from shareholders, the EPS target range will remain unchanged as will the Revenue target ranges for our UK and International businesses.
The ROCE range has been narrowed leaving the threshold target the same.
The target range for Multi-channel Revenue has been increased, re ecting our aspirations for this part of the business.
We listened to shareholder feedback and have this year increased the existing shareholding requirements to require executive directors to hold 150% of salary and 250% for the Chief Executive Of cer.
We believe this is an appropriate level of shareholding when compared with other UK companies of our size.
As previously announced, I will be stepping down from my position of Remuneration Committee Chairman at this years AGM and will be succeeded by Vindi Banga.
I have appreciated my time on the Board of M&S and my role as Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee has valued the engagement with, and support of, shareholders and we remain focused on setting demanding incentive targets and disclosing details of both performance and objectives each year.
Together with the rest of the Board, Vindi and I look forward to hearing your views on our remuneration arrangements and will be available to answer any questions you may have at the AGM.
Steven Holliday Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provision of the Companies Act 2006 and on the basis prescribed in the large and medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendments Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Where required, data has been audited by  LLP and this is indicated appropriately.
Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 5 54 4 Directors remuneration policy This report sets out the Companys policy on remuneration for executive and non-executive directors, and will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM on 8 July 2014.
The policy remains unchanged from that disclosed in recent financial years.
It will take effect from 8 July 2014 and may operate for up to three years.
The Committee has therefore built in a degree of exibility to ensure the practical application of the policy over this period.
Where such discretion is reserved, the extent to which it may be applied is described.
The Companys policy remains to attract, retain and motivate its leaders and ensure they are focused on delivering business priorities within a framework designed to promote the long-term success of M&S, aligned with shareholder interests.
Executive directors Remuneration policy: policy table Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Base salary Payable in cash.
Reviewed annually by the Committee considering a number of factors, including: To attract, retain and motivate high calibre Salary increases awarded to other employees in the wider workforce: and executives needed to deliver our strategy and Comparable salaries in appropriate comparator groups drive business performance.
e. g. major retailers, our peer group of FTSE 25-75 companies etc.. Salaries re ect the experience, responsibility and contribution of the individual and role within the Group.
Salaries for all employees are typically reviewed annually on a similar basis.
Bene ts Directors are eligible to receive bene ts in line with our policies which may include: A car or cash allowance: To provide market competitive bene ts which A driver: and drive employee engagement and commitment Life assurance.
Where appropriate, our Global Domestic Mobility Policy may apply.
This may include, but not be limited to travel, relocation and tax equalisation allowances.
All employees, including directors, are also offered a number of other bene ts such as employee discount and salary sacri ce schemes such as Cycle2Work.
Directors are able to participate in a Save As You Earn Scheme and or a Share Incentive Plan and any other all employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
Pension bene ts Directors may participate in the Your M&S Pension Saving Plan a fide ned contribution arrangement or receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions into To attract and retain high calibre executives this scheme.
through a commitment to responsible, secure Directors who are members of the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme a fide ned retirement funding in line with our Company bene t arrangement, closed to new entrants will accrue bene ts under that scheme.
Directors are eligible to participate in this non-contractual, discretionary Scheme.
Annual Bonus Scheme Payments are made subject to the satisfaction of predetermined targets set at the start including Deferred Share Bonus of the year, as approved by the Committee.
Plan DSBP Not less than 50% of any bonus earned is paid in deferred shares under the DSBP, To drive annual pro tability, strategic change with the remainder payable in cash.
and individual performance in line with our Deferred shares vest after a period of three years subject to continued service, but no further business plan.
To recognise and reward individual Malus provisions, good leaver and change of control provisions apply to the deferred contributions to the way we do business.
The value of any dividends during the deferred period will be payable see the The deferral into shares provides alignment explanatory notes on page 56. with shareholders long-term interests The Committee retains the right to exercise discretion, both upwards and downwards, to following the successful delivery of short-term ensure that the level of award payable is appropriate and fair in the context of the targets.
directors individual performance and the Companys overall performance.
Where exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in the subsequent Annual Report.
All employees are eligible to participate in a bonus scheme measured against Group financial local targets and or individual performance.
For the most senior managers, part of the bonus earned is paid in deferred shares under the DSBP.
The Companys principal long-term incentive scheme, first approved by shareholders Performance Share Plan PSP in 2005.
Measured against the key financial drivers Directors are eligible to participate in this non-contractual, discretionary Plan.
of our business plan to deliver sustainable Directors may receive an annual award which vests after three years subject to value creation.
To encourage long-term shareholding to retain Malus provisions, good leaver and change of control provisions apply see page 59. directors, and provide greater alignment with The value of any dividends during the vesting period will be payable see the explanatory shareholders interests.
A signi cant proportion of the most senior managers may be invited to participate in the PSP, on similar terms as the executive directors.
Overview Overview Overview Strategic r Strategic r Strategic report eport eport Gover Gover Governance finance finance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 5 55 5 Maximum opportunity Performance conditions Whilst there is no set maximum, any increases are normally in line N A with those in the wider workforce.
Individual adjustments in excess of this may be made outside of this cycle at the discretion of the Committee, where appropriate.
Such circumstances can include: Where the role scope has changed: Where comparable salaries in the external market have changed: or To apply salary progression for newly appointed directors.
Whilst there is no set maximum, any bene ts will be provided at a N A rate commensurate with the market.
Maximum participation in all-employee share schemes is in line with local statutory limits.
A maximum of 25% of salary for executive directors or 30% of N A salary for the CEO.
A maximum annual potential of up to 200% of salary.
Quanti able one-year performance measures and targets are set by the Committee around financial and individual objectives linked with the sustainable delivery of our business plan.
Financial performance measures comprise at least 50% of awards and may include, but not be limited to, Underlying Group Pro t Before Tax PBT.
Typically, no payment for individual objectives can be earned unless a threshold level of PBT has been achieved.
This threshold level is set by the Committee taking into account the previous years performance and the business operating plan for the current year.
For threshold performance, up to 40% of maximum bonus potential may be payable for the achievement of individual objectives.
The maximum value of shares at grant which can be made Performance is measured over a three-year period against a under an award to an individual in respect of a financial year is balanced scorecard of financial measures which currently include 300% of salary.
Revenue, Earnings Per Share EPS and Return on Capital Employed ROCE chosen as those measures which support and drive top-line and bottom-line performance in line with business strategy.
The measures are currently weighted towards EPS.
The threshold level of vesting is 20% of the maximum.
For performance between threshold and maximum, awards vest on a straight-line basis.
Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 5 56 6 Directors remuneration policy continued Policy table continued Executive directors may be in receipt of awards under share plans outside of the current remuneration framework detailed on pages 54 to 55: these may have been awarded upon recruitment or prior to their appointment as an executive director.
While awards under these plans do not form part of an executive directors annual remuneration, for transparency, details of the plans are set out in the table below.
Element, purpose and Maximum Performance link to strategy Operation opportunity conditions Restricted Share Plan RSP Restricted awards may be granted for the Whilst there is no The Committee may recruitment of directors.
maximum set in choose to apply no To enable the recruitment of key formal performance Awards vest after a restricted period, which can the rules, the directors who are necessary to the vary by award but is typically between one and Committee conditions save for delivery of business strategy.
considers the scale Malus provisions, good leaver and change of and structure of control provisions apply see page 59. awards on an The value of any dividends during the restricted individual basis.
period will be payable see explanatory notes below.
Approved by shareholders and HMRC in 2005, Awards are capped Awards vest subject Executive Share Option the Committee may choose to award share at 250% of salary to at least three-year Scheme ESOS options to directors if appropriate.
in respect of any predetermined Measured against the key drivers Malus provisions, good leaver and change of financial year of the performance of our business plan to deliver control provisions apply see page 59.
Options are normally exercised between the third recruitment To encourage long-term and tenth anniversaries of grant, subject to the circumstances shareholding to retain directors, achievement of any performance conditions set awards may be and provide greater alignment by the Committee.
granted up to a with shareholders interests.
higher limit of 400% of salary.
Explanatory notes Laura Wade-Gery has unexercised RSP awards which were made in connection with her appointment to compensate her for incentive awards that were forfeited on cessation from her previous employer.
Steve Rowe has unexercised ESOS awards which were made prior to his appointment as executive director.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before this policy was in force or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Awards granted under the PSP, DSBP and RSP can be made in the form of conditional share awards, forfeitable shares, options or rights with the same economic effect.
In addition, awards may be settled in cash.
Awards may incorporate the right to receive in cash or shares the value of dividends, including any dividend tax credit, between grant and vesting on the shares that vest.
This amount may be calculated on a cumulative basis, assuming the reinvestment of dividends into shares.
In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other event which in the Committees opinion may affect the price of shares, the Committee may alter the terms of awards and the number of shares subject to them.
The terms of awards may be amended in accordance with the relevant plan rules which in the case of the PSP and the ESOS were approved by shareholders on 13 July 2005.
Any performance conditions applicable to PSP and ESOS awards may be amended by the Committee if an event occurs which causes it to consider that the performance condition would not achieve its original purpose and the amended performance condition is, in the opinion of the Committee, no less dif cult to satisfy but for the event in question.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 5 57 7 Application of the remuneration policy The charts below provide an illustration of what could be received by each of the executive directors in the first year to which the current remuneration policy applies as previously described.
These charts are illustrative as the actual value which will ultimately be received will depend on business performance in the year 2014 15 for the cash element of the bonus scheme and in the three-year period to 2016 17 for the PSP, as well as share price performance to the date of the vesting of the share element of the bonus scheme and PSP awards in 2017.
Annual Bonus Scheme: Represents the potential value of the annual bonus for 2014 15.
Half of any bonus would be deferred into shares for three years and this is included in the value shown.
No share price growth is assumed.
PSP represents the potential value of the PSP to be awarded in 2014, which would vest in 2017 subject to the performance against the EPS, Revenue and ROCE targets disclosed on page 67.
No vesting under the Annual Bonus Scheme and PSP.
Target Includes the following assumptions for the vesting of the incentive components of the package: Annual Bonus Scheme: 50% of maximum PSP: 20% of maximum Maximum Includes the following assumptions for the vesting of the incentive components of the package: Annual Bonus Scheme: 100% of maximum PSP: 100% of maximum 000 000 000 000 000 000 Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 5 58 8 Directors remuneration policy continued Recruitment policy The table below sets out the Companys policy on the recruitment of new executive directors.
Similar considerations may also apply where a director is promoted within the Board.
In addition, the Committee in exceptional circumstances has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the speci c circumstances of the individual, subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The rationale for any such component would be appropriately disclosed.
For example, for internal promotional appointments to the Board, the Committee would honour any pre-existing contractual remuneration arrangements: these arrangements may be outside of the policy detailed on pages 54 to 55.
Recruitment policy Element Salary The Committee will take into consideration a number of factors including the current pay for other executive directors, external market forces, skills and current level of pay at the previous employer in determining the pay on recruitment.
For new appointments to the Board, the Committee may set the rate of pay at the lower end of the rate for other directors with the intention of applying staged increases.
The Committee will offer a package which is set in line with our policy to appropriately re ect the Bene ts circumstances of the individual.
Pension bene ts Maximum contribution in line with our policy for executive directors.
Annual Bonus Scheme Eligible to take part in the Annual Bonus Scheme with a maximum bonus of 200% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
An award of up to 300% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
PSP Buy-out awards Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or buy-out awards, dependent on the individual circumstances of recruitment, determined on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee in its judgement normally intends that any such awards are made on a like-for-like basis and considers issues such as the plan type, time horizons and valuation of the forfeited awards.
The Committees intention would be to ensure that the value awarded will be no greater than the value forfeited by the individual.
Where appropriate, the Committee may choose to apply performance conditions to any of these awards.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy that all executive directors have rolling service contracts that can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice and the employee giving six months notice.
The directors service contracts are available for shareholder inspection at the Companys registered of ce.
Termination policy The Company may terminate the contract of any executive director summarily in accordance with the terms of their service agreement, on payment in lieu of notice of a sum equal to salary, bene ts and pension as per their contractual notice entitlement see page 72.
The Company can make a series of phased payments which are paid in monthly instalments and subject to mitigation.
This mechanism allows for the amount of any phased payments to be reduced by the income from any alternative position secured by the former director during the phased payments period.
Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without any payments in certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct.
The Company may require the individual to work during their notice period, or may choose to place the individual on garden leave.
Such a decision would be made to ensure the protection of the Companys and shareholders interests where the individual has had access to commercially sensitive information.
Overview Overview Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt t a an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s 20 201 14 4 59 59 The table below sets out key provisions for directors leaving the Company under their service contracts and the incentive plan rules.
Termination policy Element Payment will be made up to the termination date in line with relevant contractual notice periods.
Salary, bene ts and pension bene ts There is no contractual entitlement to annual bonus.
Should a director be under notice or not in active Annual Bonus Scheme service at either the relevant year end or on the date of payment, awards including any outstanding unvested deferred bonus shares may lapse.
The Committee may use its discretion as described below to make a bonus award, which is normally prorated for time and based on performance assessed at the end of the bonus period.
Where a director ceases to be an of cer or employee of the Group, before the end of the relevant Long-term incentive period, the treatment of outstanding awards is determined in accordance with the plan rules.
awards In some circumstances, where a director leaves due to retirement, injury, ill-health, death or the sale of the directors employing company or business out of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee and in accordance with the plan rules, DSBP awards normally vest in full on cessation: PSP and ESOS awards which have been held for at least 12 months normally vest when the level of performance has been assessed and agreed at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Committee may determine these awards vest upon cessation as permitted in the plan rules.
In either circumstance, any relevant performance conditions would still apply to the PSP and ESOS awards and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, would be time prorated.
Where a director has been recruited to the Company from overseas, the Company may pay for Repatriation repatriation.
Legal expenses and The Company may reimburse for reasonable legal fees in the event a director leaves by mutual consent.
It may also pay for professional outplacement services in these circumstances.
outplacement The Companys policy toward exit payments allows for a variety of circumstances whereby a director may leave the business.
In some cases, where deemed suitable, the Committee reserves the right to determine exit payments, where the director leaves by mutual agreement.
In all circumstances, the Committee does not intend to reward failure and will make decisions based on the individual circumstances.
The Committees objective is that any such agreements are determined on an individual basis and are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders at that time, and re ect the directors contractual and other legal rights.
Corporate events In the event of a change of control or winding-up of the Company, unvested share awards will normally vest on the date that the Board noti es participants of such an event.
The number of shares which may vest under awards in these circumstances will be subject to any relevant performance conditions and, in the case of PSP awards, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time prorating.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of the Committee affects the price of shares, the Committee may allow some or all of an award to vest.
Malus provisions All share awards granted in 2013 onwards are subject to malus provisions.
These provisions allow the Committee, in its absolute discretion, to determine at any time prior to the vesting of an award to reduce the number of shares, cancel an award or impose further conditions on an award in circumstances which the Committee considers such action to be appropriate.
Such circumstances may include, but not be limited to, a material misstatement of the Companys audited results.
Consideration of wider workforce pay The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the senior remuneration policy and has regard to its impact and compatibility with remuneration policies in the wider workforce.
The Committee is provided throughout the year with information detailing pay in the wider workforce which gives additional context for the Committee to make informed decisions.
The Director of Human Resources advises the Committee of the approach which will be adopted with the forthcoming UK pay review and the Committee then considers the executive directors pay review in line with these arrangements.
Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 6 60 0 Directors remuneration policy continued The Director of Human Resources consults on all executive director bonus objectives and advises the Committee on how, and the extent to which, these may be cascaded throughout the Company.
In approving the budget for the annual bonus, the Committee reviews all bonus costs for the Company against the operating plan.
The Committee also reviews and approves any PSP awards made to executive directors and directors below the Board prior to their grant.
The Committee also receives updates on a variety of employee engagement initiatives which form part of our normal employee engagement practices.
The annual Your Say employee survey asks employees about the fairness and reasonableness of employee pay and bene ts.
Any comments made through this survey or through our network of elected employee representatives via our Business Involvement Groups are taken into account.
The Head of Reward & Global Mobility annually provides these employee representatives with an explanation of the Companys reward principles and director pay arrangements during the year, and is available to answer questions at this time.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
Where appropriate, the Committee will actively engage with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, seeking views which may be taken into account when making any decisions about changes to the directors remuneration policy.
The Committee seeks the views of the largest shareholders when considering making any signi cant changes to the remuneration policy: this may be done annually or on an ad hoc basis, dependent upon the issue.
The Committee annually engages in a process of investor consultation, which is typically in written format, but may be through face-face meetings etc.
The Committee Chairman is available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting AGM and the answers to speci c questions are posted on our website.
As part of our socially responsible reporting strategy, an annual meeting is held and the consideration of views on a variety of topics, including executive pay, is taken into account.
During the year, the Committee consulted with shareholders regarding the minor amendments made to the implementation policy as detailed on page 77 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive directors Remuneration policy: policy table The table below sets out our policy for the operation of non-executive director fees and bene ts at the Company.
Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Chairmans fees Paid in equal monthly instalments: may be made in cash and or shares.
Fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
To provide a fair fee at a level that Fees re ect the time commitment, demands and responsibility of the role.
attracts and retains a high-calibre Reviewed annually, taking into account market practice in appropriate comparator groups Chairman.
e. g. major retailers, our peer group of FTSE 25-75 companies etc.
Fees are paid in equal monthly instalments and may be made in cash and or shares.
Non-executive director Fees are determined by the Chairman and executive directors.
basic fee The fee level recognises the scope of the role and time commitment required.
To provide a fair basic fee at a Reviewed annually taking into account market practice in appropriate comparator groups rate that attracts and retains e. g. major retailers, our peer group of FTSE 25-75 companies etc.. high-calibre non-executive The maximum aggregate fees for non-executive directors, including the Chairman, is 750,000 p. a. directors.
as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Additional fees are paid for extra responsibilities undertaken by non-executive directors for the role Additional fees of Board Chairman, a Committee Chairman or the Senior Independent Director role.
To provide compensation to non-executive directors taking on additional Board responsibility.
Bene ts In addition to the annual fee, the Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and driver.
In line with other employees, the Chairman and non-executive directors receive employee product To facilitate the execution of discount.
No other bene ts are provided.
responsibilities and duties required The Chairman and non-executive directors do not participate in pension or performance-related by the role.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 61 Recruitment policy The table below sets out the recruitment policy for non-executive directors.
Element Recruitment policy The Committee takes into account a number of factors when determining an appropriate fee level for the Fees Chairman.
The CEO and executive directors determine appropriate fee levels for the non-executive directors.
This consideration includes the time commitment and responsibility of the individual role and market practice in appropriate comparator groups.
The Company may offer bene ts to the Chairman set in line with our policy as detailed on page 60.
Bene ts Agreements for service All non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have an agreement for service for an initial three-year term: these are available for shareholder inspection at the Companys registered of ce.
The Chairman has an agreement for service which requires six months notice by either party.
Non-executive directors service agreements may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our AGM.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 62 Report on Directors remuneration The following pages detail the implementation of the directors remuneration policy as described on pages 54 to 55 during the year and for the forthcoming year.
For ease of comparison, the future implementation of each element of the policy is set alongside the arrangements for the reporting year.
Executive directors How is the senior remuneration framework aligned to Company strategy?
The Committee annually reviews the senior remuneration framework and considers whether the existing incentive arrangements remain strongly challenging in the context of the business strategy, current external guidelines and a range of internal factors including the remuneration policy and pay arrangements throughout the rest of the organisation.
Incentive plans are designed to both take account of risk and drive behaviours in line with the Companys high ethical standards.
Plan A the Companys environmental and ethical plan underpins the way in which we do business and this is similarly re ected in the directors pay arrangements.
What are the details of total remuneration?
The amounts shown re ect that Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne joined the Board on 10 July 2013.
The amounts shown for 2012 13 re ect that Steve Rowe joined the Board on 1 October 2012.
The amounts shown re ect that Steven Sharp retired from the Board on 9 July 2013.
His 2011 PSP award vested on 20 May 2014 and is therefore not included in the above table.
For transparency, the estimated vesting value of this award including dividend equivalents is 187,000.
Further details of this award are shown on page 69.
Bene ts include the value of car allowance and intrinsic value of SAYE in addition to the taxable value of car, driver and life assurance, as applicable to each director and as described on page 63.
Half of any award will be deferred into Company shares for a period of three years.
As the threshold PBT target for 2013 14 was not met, no payments were made.
Further details of the 2013 14 Annual Bonus Scheme are shown on pages 63 to 65.
The award vesting in 2013 14 was based on three-year performance to 29 March 2014.
Further details of the vesting of this award are shown on page 66.
As these awards do not vest until after the end of the financial year, estimation is made of the vesting value using the three-month average share price from 1 January 2014 29 March 2014.
This value also includes the anticipated value of dividend equivalents which will be payable in July 2014.
These estimated gures will be restated in next years report.
Pension bene ts comprises the value of cash provided in lieu of participation in the Your M&S Pension Saving Plan.
The following sections set out additional disclosure regarding each of the components set out in the above single gure table.
Salary audited When reviewing salary levels, the Committee takes into account a number of internal and external factors, including Company performance during the year, external market data and the salary review principles applied to the rest of the organisation to ensure a consistent approach.
Marc Bolland has, at his own request, not received a salary increase since his appointment in 2010.
He again proposed not to receive any increase in 2013 14, which the Committee agreed.
The other executive directors similarly requested not to receive any increase in salary in 2013 14.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 63 The table below details the executive directors salaries as at 29 March 2014.
Current annual salary Change since March 2013 000 % increase Marc Bolland 975 0% Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 525 John Dixon 600 0% Steve Rowe 525 0% Alan Stewart 579 0% Laura Wade-Gery 552 0% Bene ts audited Each executive director receives a car or car cash allowance and is offered the bene t of a driver.
The Company also provides each director with life assurance.
Executive directors receive employee product discount and are eligible to participate in salary sacri ce schemes such as Cycle2Work in line with all other employees.
Pension bene ts audited With the exception of the Chief Executive Of cer CEO, executive directors receive a 25% salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Your M&S Pension Saving Plan.
The CEO receives a supplement of 30% of salary.
John Dixon and Steve Rowe are deferred members of the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme.
Details of the pension accrued by them during the year ended 29 March 2014 are shown below.
Accrued pension Additional value Increase in Transfer value of Normal entitlement as at on early Increase in accrued value total accrued 1 retirement year end retirement accrued value net of in ation pension age 000 000 000 000 000 John Dixon 60 137 0 4 0 2,297 Steve Rowe 60 145040 2,457 1.
The accrued pension entitlement is the deferred pension amount that the director would receive at age 60 if he left the Company on 29 March 2014.
The Listing Rules require this to be disclosed excluding in ation.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the current Transfer Value Regulations.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of the assets that the pension scheme would transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension bene ts.
They do not represent sums payable to the director and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Annual Bonus Scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme is designed to drive the delivery of the Companys strategy over the short and medium-term.
The bonus potential for executive directors is up to 200% of salary for maximum performance.
Payments are delivered through a mix of cash and shares, the balance of which is determined annually by the Committee.
Shares are delivered in the form of nil-cost options conditional shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP and vest after three years, subject to continued employment.
In line with best practice, malus provisions apply to share awards granted from 2013 onwards.
The Committee reviews annually the performance measures, quantum and structure of the Scheme to ensure it remains an appropriate driver of Company performance.
The scheme is structured to drive pro tability and individual performance across the organisation.
In recent years, performance has been measured against Underlying Group Pro t Before Tax PBT and individual objectives.
Individual objectives and targets are set in line with the strategic priorities for each directors business area.
Individual performance is measured independently of any financial targets.
No individual objective element of the bonus can be earned unless a threshold level of PBT has been achieved, subject to the Committees overall assessment of the Companys performance during the period.
This maintains the important principle that below a fide ned level of financial performance, no bonus will be earned.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 64 Report on Directors remuneration continued Annual Bonus Scheme for 2013 14 audited In 2013 14, 60% of the executive directors bonus was based on PBT performance and 40% was based on the achievement of four individual objectives, independent of PBT but subject to achieving a threshold PBT target.
As detailed below, no payments were made in relation to financial or individual objectives for 2013 14.
PBT objective PBT targets were set taking into account the Companys operating plan, external forecasts for the retail sector and analysts pro t forecasts.
Targets were designed to be stretching in order to drive desired behaviours and increase motivation and focus.
The final PBT performance was 623m which was below the threshold target set by the Committee.
As a result, no bonus was payable under the PBT element of the Scheme.
The Committee has a robust process in place to ensure that pro t targets set are stretching.
The Committee believes that the speci c targets are commercially sensitive and therefore is unable to disclose them.
Individual objectives Each director had four individual objectives for 2013 14, together accounting for 40% of the total bonus.
These objectives re ected key areas of focus for the business and those relevant to each directors business area to ensure the strategic success of the Company.
Two objectives were collective i. e. individual targets set for each director under shared Plan A and costs objectives, encouraging a common focus and collaboration across the senior team.
The remaining two objectives were business area individual objectives related to speci c programmes to each director.
The table below details some of these individual objectives.
Examples of individual objectives 2013 14 Collective Plan A and costs Individual business area Marc Bolland UK operating costs Senior leadership capability Make Your Mark youth employment programme Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Marketing operating plan costs New in-store concepts Garment shwopping volumes John Dixon GM gross margin GM market share GM products with Plan A attributes Steve Rowe Food gross margin In-store food availability Food products with Plan A attributes Alan Stewart Finance, IT and logistics operating plan costs New distribution centre ef ciency Carbon reduction in logistics Laura Wade-Gery M&S.
com operating pro t Launch of new M&S.
com website Plan A embedded in M&S.
com As the threshold PBT level for the Scheme was not met, no bonus was payable for the individual objectives in 2013 14.
However, the Committee has in place a robust process to assess the individual performance of each director.
The table below illustrates the results of this assessment and the extent to which performance against the individual objectives was achieved.
As the speci c targets including those for PBT are considered to be commercially sensitive, they are not disclosed.
Pro t Individual Collective Business area Total Achievement Achievement achievement against pro t against individual % of maximum PBT Cost targets Plan A targets Individual targets targets objectives bonus 60% 60% of bonus 10% 10% 20% 40% of bonus potential Marc Bolland 0% 19.5% 19.5% Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 0% 19.0% 19.0% John Dixon 0% 19.0% 19.0% Steve Rowe 0% 30.0% 30.0% Alan Stewart 0% 19.0% 19.0% Laura Wade-Gery 0% 24.0% 24.0% Key Key Below Threshold Below Threshold Threshold Target Threshold Target Target Maximum Target Maximum Above Maximum Above Maximum Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 65 Annual Bonus Scheme for 2014 15 The Committee reviewed and approved minor amendments to the directors Annual Bonus Scheme for 2014 15.
Maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 200% of salary.
The achievement of pro t targets remains essential to M&Ss success and as such, 60% of any bonus will continue to be measured against pro tability targets.
For executive directors with Group roles, this will continue to be a challenging PBT target.
For those executive directors with business unit responsibility, 30% of any award will now be measured against PBT and 30% against pro t targets for their business area.
This change allows the Committee greater scope to drive and reward speci c performance in the different areas of the business, while maintaining a shared focus on Group performance.
40% of a directors bonus opportunity will continue to be dependent on the achievement of key objectives speci c to each director.
For 2014 15, these objectives will be limited to three key objectives aligned to the delivery of the Companys short and medium-term strategy.
The table below shows further details of the structure of this Scheme and provides examples of the personal objectives which each director will be measured against.
Pro t Individual Business Unit Business Unit objectives PBT pro t Examples of % bonus % bonus % bonus individual measures Marc Bolland 60% 40% Organisational development M&S.
com performance Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 60% 40% New platform publishing In-store visual house merchandising John Dixon 30% 30% 40% GM sales GM gross margin Steve Rowe 30% 30% 40% Food sales Food proposition development Alan Stewart 60% 40% Free cash ow Property portfolio Laura Wade-Gery 30% 30% 40% M&S.
com market share New distribution centre service delivery Achievement against Plan A objectives Plan A our environmental and ethical plan remains an integral driver of the way we do business: success against Plan A targets now underpins the entire bonus scheme.
At the end of the year, the Committee will assess performance against all measures and will use its judgement to adjust overall payouts in line with overall Plan A performance, such as Plan A attributes within products and the success of speci c Plan A initiatives.
Where possible, M&S seeks to report transparently on all aspects of the remuneration policy as long as this does not harm the Companys business operations.
The Board considers the speci c bonus targets for 2014 15 to be commercially sensitive because of the information it would provide to competitors and as such, they are not disclosed in this report.
To the extent that the Committee is able, these targets and indicative performance against them will be disclosed in the following year.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan audited Currently 50% of any bonus award is compulsorily deferred into shares.
These deferred awards vest after three years subject to continued employment and malus provisions.
Further details of awards made in 2013 14, in respect of the 2012 13 Annual Bonus Scheme, are detailed in the table below.
All awards shown above are made on the basis of 50% of the total bonus earned in relation to performance for the year ended 30 March 2013.
The face value of award is calculated as the number of nil-cost options conditional shares awarded multiplied by the average mid-market share price on the five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
For this year, the share price was calculated as 4.37, being the average share price between 17 June 2013 and 21 June 2013.
Further details of these awards are shown in the table on pages 68 to 69.
Awards vest subject to continued employment on this date.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 66 Report on Directors remuneration continued Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP is the primary long-term incentive for executive directors and senior managers.
The maximum award opportunity under the plan rules is 300% of salary, although the Committee has typically referenced awards less than this limit, at 250% of salary.
Malus provisions allowing the Committee to withhold or reduce payments under the scheme as detailed on page 59 apply to all awards made in 2013 and thereafter.
The Committee reviews the performance conditions and targets of the plan annually to ensure that they remain challenging, appropriate and a driver of business strategy.
In recent years, performance has been measured against Earnings Per Share EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Revenue.
The Committee believes these measures appropriately re ect the key drivers of shareholder value as EPS drives and rewards bottom-line performance, while Revenue and ROCE ensure top-line growth and the ef cient use of capital in line with business strategy.
PSP awards made in 2013 14 audited In June 2013, executive directors were awarded nil-cost options conditional shares of 250% of salary.
These awards vest subject to performance measured against EPS, ROCE and Revenue, each measured independently.
Performance is measured over the three-year period to the end of the 2015 16 financial year.
To the extent to which performance is met, awards will vest on 24 June 2016.
Further details of PSP awards made in 2013 14 are detailed below.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne received an award under the PSP prior to his appointment as an executive director.
All of Patrick Bousquet-Chavannes outstanding share awards are detailed in the table set out on page 68.
The face value of awards is calculated as the number of nil-cost options conditional shares awarded multiplied by the average mid-market share price on the five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
For threshold performance, 20% of the face value award will vest.
PSP awards vesting in 2013 14 audited For directors in receipt of PSP awards in 2011, awards will vest on 25 July 2014, based on three-year performance over the period to 29 March 2014.
Performance has been assessed and it has been determined that 7.6% of the award will vest.
Details of performance against the speci c targets set are set out in the tables below.
Performance target Revenue 2013 14 2 3 4 5 Cumulative EPS ROCE % UK Multi-channel International 6 50% of award 20% of award 10% of award 10% of award 10% of award Total vesting 1 Threshold performance 110p 17.00% 9,200m 700m 1,100m 1 Maximum performance 130p 18.50% 9,900m 1,000m 1,400m Actual performance achieved 100p 16.0% 8,377m 800m 1,132m Percentage of maximum 0% 0% 0% 4.7% 2.9% 7.6% achieved 1.
20% of an award vests for threshold performance with full vesting for achieving or exceeding maximum performance.
Vesting is a straight line between these two points.
Actual performance achieved has been restated to Pre-IAS 19 values, to allow for a like-for-like measurement against targets.
Net of VAT gross of returns.
Excluding Multi-channel including Republic of Ireland.
Details of the number of shares awarded to each director in 2011 are shown in the table on pages 68 to 69.
As described above 7.6% of these awards will vest.
The estimated value of these awards, including the dividend equivalents, are set out in the single gure table on page 62.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 67 PSP awards to be made in 2014 15 Awards of nil-cost options conditional shares will be made following the announcement of the Companys results.
The maximum award opportunity is 300% of salary, however the Committee have typically referenced awards to 250% of salary.
It is intended that all current executive directors will receive awards of 250% of salary in 2014 15.
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually to ensure that they remain challenging in the context of M&Ss business strategy.
For 2014 15 awards, there will be no changes to the measures and weightings of awards.
The Committee believes that the balance of EPS, ROCE and Revenue continues to appropriately re ect the key drivers of shareholder value for M&S and remain the most appropriate long-term drivers of the Companys strategy.
Following the review however, the Committee determined that a recalibration of some of the performance targets in line with the Companys operating plan, and internal and external forecasts would be appropriate.
The targets for the 2014 15 award are as follows: Performance target Revenue 2016 17 Annualised EPS 1 2 3 4 % vesting growth % ROCE % UK Multi-channel International % of award 50% of award 20% of award 10% of award 10% of award 10% of award Threshold performance 20% 5.0% 15.0% 8,900m 1,100m 1,400m Maximum performance 100% 12.0% 16.5% 9,600m 1,300m 1,800m 1.
Vesting is a straight line between threshold and maximum performance.
Performance conditions for outstanding PSP awards audited The details of outstanding PSP awards are set out in the table on pages 68 to 69.
These awards vest subject to the extent that the following three-year performance conditions are met.
For 2012 13, EPS performance was measured against cumulative EPS targets at the end of the three-year performance period.
For 2013 14, EPS performance targets were measured against annualised EPS growth over the three-year period.
The above targets do not take into consideration changes in accounting treatments adopted by the Group after the award date.
The impact of these changes will be taken into consideration when performance is assessed at the end of the three-year performance period.
ShareSave Save As You Earn audited As outlined in the remuneration policy on pages 54 to 55, executive directors may participate in ShareSave, the Companys Save As You Earn scheme, on the same basis as all other eligible employees.
Marc Bolland, Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne, John Dixon and Steve Rowe all joined the 2013 scheme, saving the maximum of 250 per month.
In line with HMRC regulations, options were offered at a 20% discount.
The discounted face value for these individuals was 2,235 and is re ected in the single gure table on page 62.
Further details of the Scheme is set out in Note 13 to the financial statements on pages 107 to 108.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 68 Report on Directors remuneration continued What are the details of the executive directors interests in the Companys share schemes?
The number of options conditional shares shown under the Performance Share Plan is the maximum 100% number that could be receivable by the executive director if the performance conditions are fully met.
The 2010 award did not meet the threshold EPS target and so all awards lapsed.
7.6% of the 2011 award will vest in July 2014 as set out on page 66.
These awards were made in connection with the directors appointment to compensate them for incentive awards that were forfeited on cessation from their previous employer.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavannes awards are structured as conditional shares.
His RSP award was made prior to his appointment to executive director.
Steven Sharp retired from the Board on 9 July 2013.
Details of his leaving arrangements are set out on page 72.
The vesting of his PSP awarded in 2012 will be con rmed in May 2015.
The exercise period will be 12 months from the date when the 2015 Annual Report is approved by the Board.
The market price of the shares at the end of the financial year was 453.7p: the highest and lowest share price during the financial year were 513.5p and 375.3p respectively.
The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the PSP, DSBP, ESOS, RSP and SAYE in the year totalled 6,660,036.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 70 Report on Directors remuneration continued What are the details of the directors shareholdings in the Company?
audited Directors shareholdings The table below sets out the total number of shares held at 29 March 2014 or date of retirement by each executive director serving on the Board during the year.
Shareholding at 9 July 2013, the date Steven Sharp retired from the Board.
Includes shares held by connected persons.
Comprises all unexercised awards under these schemes.
There have been no changes in the current directors interests in shares or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the financial year and 22 May 2014.
No director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the statutory end of the year.
Shareholding requirements All executive directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum percentage of their salary within a five-year period from their date of appointment.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the target level of shareholding for the directors and decided to increase the target to 250% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for other executive directors.
The chart below shows the extent to which each director has met their increased target shareholding as at 29 March 2014.
Marc Bolland 319% Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 94% John Dixon 358% Steve Rowe 260% Alan Stewart 108% Laura Wade-Gery 237% Key Shares owned outright Vested and unexercised shares Unvested DSBP RSP shares Shareholding requirement For the purposes of the requirements, the net number of unvested shares awards not subject to performance conditions is included.
The Committee is aware that during the year, best practice guidelines concerning shares to be counted towards requirements were amended.
Following the recent review of the Companys shareholding requirements, the Committee is satis ed that the requirements remain suf ciently robust, but is committed to keeping this issue under review.
What is the current dilution of share capital by employee share plans?
Awards granted under the Companys Save As You Earn scheme and the Executive Share Option scheme are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised.
All other share plans are met by market purchase shares.
The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution limits.
The Companys usage of shares compared to the dilution limits set by the Association of British Insurers ABI in respect of all share plans 10% in any rolling 10-year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling 10-year period as at 29 March 2014 was as follows: All share plans Executive share plans Actual Actual 5.36% 0.05% Limit 10% Limit 5% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 71 What are the remuneration comparisons for the Company?
Performance graph and table The graph below illustrates the Companys performance against the FTSE 100 over the past five years.
The calculation of TSR is in accordance with the relevant remuneration regulations.
As required by the new regulations, the table below the TSR chart sets out the remuneration data for directors undertaking the role of CEO during each of the last five financial years.
Historical TSR performance Marks & Spencer Group plc FTSE 100 Index Source: Thomson Reuters 250 200 150 100 50 0 28 March 3 April 29 March 2 April 30 March 29 March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Historical CEO remuneration CEO 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 CEO single gure of remuneration Marc Bolland 5,998 3,324 2,142 1,587 000 Stuart Rose 4,294 269 Annual bonus payment Marc Bolland 45.80% 34.00% 42.50% 0.00% % of maximum Stuart Rose 97.00% 57.40% PSP vesting Marc Bolland 31.96% 0.00% 7.60% Stuart Rose 0.00% 0.00% % of maximum Marc Bolland was appointed CEO on 1 May 2010.
His single gure for 2010 11 includes recruitment awards made to him at that time to compensate him for incentive awards forfeited on cessation from his previous employer.
Sir Stuart Rose undertook the role of CEO from 31 May 2004 to 30 April 2010.
Percentage change in CEOs remuneration The table below sets out the change in the CEOs remuneration i. e. salary, taxable bene ts and annual bonus compared with the change in our UK-based employees.
This group has been chosen as the majority of our workforce is UK-based.
% change FY 2013 FY 2014 Base salary Bene ts Annual Bonus CEO 0.0% 0.1% -100% UK employees 2.6% 0.1% -100% average per FTE Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 72 Report on Directors remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay In line with the new regulations, the table below illustrates the Companys expenditure on pay in comparison to pro ts before tax and distributions to shareholders by way of dividend payments.
The restatement relates to the adoption of the revised IAS19 Employee Bene ts.
See Note 1 of the financial statements for further information.
The gures above are as set out on page 102 in the notes to the accounts.
Total employee pay is the total pay for all Group employees.
Underlying Group Pro t Before Tax has been used as a comparison as this is the key financial metric which the Board consider when assessing Company performance.
What are the details of directors service contracts and Board roles?
Service agreements As detailed on page 58 of the remuneration policy, all executive directors have rolling contracts which may be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice or the director giving six months notice.
Date of appointment Notice period unexpired term Marc Bolland 01 05 2010 12 months 6 months Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 10 07 2013 12 months 6 months John Dixon 09 09 2009 12 months 6 months Steve Rowe 01 10 2012 12 months 6 months Alan Stewart 28 10 2010 12 months 6 months Laura Wade-Gery 04 07 2011 12 months 6 months Changes to the Board during 2013 14 Directors appointed to the Board Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne As reported last year, Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne joined the Board as Executive Director, Marketing & Business Development on 10 July 2013 on a salary of 525,000.
No other awards were made to Patrick upon this appointment.
Directors retiring from the Board Steven Sharp Steven Sharp, Executive Director, Marketing, retired from the Board on 9 July 2013 and continued to work in the business as Creative Director until 28 February 2014 when he left the Company.
Steven was paid in line with his contractual arrangements.
As disclosed in last years report, Steven was entitled to a prorated payment under the Annual Bonus Scheme on the same basis as all other executive directors.
As no bonus was payable under the Scheme, Steven did not receive a payment for 2013 14.
Stevens unvested DSBP awards were released in full on 1 March 2014.
Steven did not receive an award in 2013 under the PSP.
As detailed in the table on page 69, Steven has two outstanding awards under the Plan which were awarded in July 2011 and June 2012.
In accordance with the rules of the Plan, these awards will vest in May 2014 and May 2015 respectively.
The number of shares he will receive at this time will be determined by achievement against the measures and targets set at the beginning of the respective performance period.
The Committee has used its discretion and after consideration will not prorate the outstanding awards for time as allowed under the rules of the Plan.
Payments to past directors audited There were no payments made to past directors during the year.
Payments for the loss of of ce audited There were no payments for loss of of ce made to directors during the year.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 73 External appointments The Company recognises that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that these appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the bene t of the Company.
The policy is for the individual director to retain any fee.
The table below sets out the details for these fees earned up to 29 March 2014 or until the date of leaving the Board.
Fee Director Company 000 1 Marc Bolland Manpower Inc. 115 2 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Brown-Forman 148 3 Steven Sharp Adnams plc 8 1 arc Bollands fee is paid in cash and stock units in US dollars.
For the purposes of this table the values were converted to sterling using the :$ spot rate as at 28 March 2014 for stock units and the average rolling :$ rate for the period April 2013 to March 2014 for cash payments.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavannes fee is paid in cash and stock units in US dollars.
For the purposes of this table the values were converted to sterling using the average rolling :$ rate for the period July 2013 to March 2014.
Until 9 July 2013, his date of retirement from the Board.
Non-executive directors As detailed in the remuneration policy on page 60, non-executive directors receive fees re ective of the time commitment, demands and responsibilities of the role.
The table below details the fees paid to the non-executive directors for 2013 14 and 2012 13.
What payments did the non-executive directors receive during the year?
The amounts shown re ect that Alison Brittain joined the Board on 1 January 2014.
The amounts shown re ect that Jeremy Darroch retired from the Board on 19 June 2013.
The amounts shown re ect that Andy Halford was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2013.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 74 Report on Directors remuneration continued What are the shareholdings for the non-executive directors?
audited The non-executive directors are not permitted to participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
The non-executive directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding of at least 2,000 shares in the Company within two months of their appointment to the Board.
The table below details the shareholding of the non-executive directors who served on the Board during the year as at 29 March 2014 or upon their date of retiring from the Board.
2 Number of shares held Robert Swannell 100,000 Vindi Banga 2,000 Alison Brittain 2,500 Miranda Curtis 5,500 1 Jeremy Darroch 2,000 Martha Lane Fox 20,100 Andy Halford 3,000 Steven Holliday 2,500 Jan du Plessis 20,000 1.
Shareholding as at 19 June 2013, the date Jeremy Darroch retired from the Board.
There have been no changes in the current non-executive directors interests in shares in the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the financial year and 22 May 2014.
What are the details of the non-executive directors agreements for service and Board changes?
Agreements for service Non-executive directors have an agreement for service for an initial three-year term which can be terminated by either party giving three months notice six months for the Chairman.
The table below sets out these terms for all current members of the Board.
Date of appointment Notice period unexpired term Robert Swannell 23 08 2010 6 months 6 months Vindi Banga 01 09 2011 3 months 3 months Alison Brittain 01 01 2014 3 months 3 months Miranda Curtis 01 02 2012 3 months 3 months Martha Lane Fox 01 06 2007 3 months 3 months Andy Halford 01 01 2013 3 months 3 months Steven Holliday 15 07 2004 3 months 3 months Jan du Plessis 01 11 2008 3 months 3 months Changes to the Board during 2013 14 Directors appointed to the Board Alison Brittain Alison Brittain joined the Board on 1 January 2014 as a non-executive director.
Alison is a member of the Nominations Committee, and was appointed a member of the Audit Committee from 11 March 2014.
In accordance with the non-executive director fees policy, Alison receives a fee of 70,000 p. a.
Her prorated fee for the 2013 14 financial year is detailed in the table on page 73.
Directors retiring from the Board Jeremy Darroch Jeremy Darroch, Chairman of the Audit Committee, retired from the Board on 19 June 2013.
There were no payments for loss of of ce payable to Jeremy.
Directors changing roles within the Board Andy Halford Andy Halford became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 20 June 2013, upon Jeremy Darrochs retirement from the Board.
From this date, Andy received additional fees in accordance with the responsibility of this role, as described in the remuneration policy on page 60.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 75 Changes to the Board in 2014 15 Directors retiring from the Board Steven Holliday Steven Holliday has served as a non-executive director since July 2004 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since September 2009.
He will step down and retire from the Board following the AGM on 8 July 2014.
There will be no payments for loss of of ce payable to Steven.
Directors changing roles within the Board Vindi Banga Vindi Banga will become the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 9 July 2014, upon Steven Hollidays retirement from the Board.
Vindi will be entitled to receive additional fees in accordance with the responsibility of this role, as described in the remuneration policy on page 60.
Remuneration Committee Who is on our Committee?
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2013 14.
Maximum Number of % of Member Member since possible meetings meetings attended meetings attended Steven Holliday Chairman 15 July 2004 6 6 100% Vindi Banga 1 September 2011 6 6 100% Miranda Curtis 1 February 2012 6 6 100% Jan du Plessis 8 September 2009 6 6 100% Steven Holliday will be retiring from the Board on 8 July 2014.
At this time, Vindi Banga will succeed Steven as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Andy Halford joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2014.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 76 Report on Directors remuneration continued What is the remit of the Remuneration Committee?
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to make recommendations regarding the senior remuneration strategy and framework to the Board to ensure the executive directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded for their contribution to the Companys performance, taking into account the financial and commercial position of the Company.
Key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee Setting a senior remuneration strategy that ensures the most talented leaders are recruited, retained and motivated to deliver results: Reviewing the effectiveness of the senior remuneration policy with regard to its impact: Considering the appropriateness of the senior remuneration policy when reviewed against the policy and arrangements throughout the rest of the organisation: Determining the terms of employment and remuneration for executive directors and senior managers including recruitment and termination arrangements: Approving the design, targets and payments for all annual incentive schemes that include executive directors and senior managers: Agreeing the design, targets and annual awards made for all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval: and Assessing the appropriateness and subsequent achievement of performance targets relating to any share incentive plan.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website at marksandspencer.
com thecompany What has the Committee done during the year?
In line with its remit, the Committee considered a number of key matters during the year.
Remuneration Committee agenda for 2013 14 Regular items Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for 2012 13 and review of the AGM voting outcome for the report: Annual review of all executive directors and senior managers base salaries and bene ts in line with Company policy and approval of any salary increases: Review of achievement of Annual Bonus Scheme pro t against target: Review of achievement of executive directors individual objectives for 2013 14: Review of the design and targets for the 2014 15 Annual Bonus Scheme including the approval of individual objectives for directors: Review and approval of all awards made under the PSP taking into account the total value of all awards made under this plan: Half-year and year end review of all share plan performance against targets: Approval of the vesting level of the 2010 11 PSP awards: Consideration of the performance measures and targets to be applied to the 2014 15 PSP awards: Clear articulation of the Committees reasoning and consideration for vesting and payment levels to executive directors: Review of director shareholding guidelines and achievement of these for each executive director: Signi cant consideration of institutional investors current guidelines on executive compensation: Consideration of remuneration arrangements for the wider workforce: Assessment of the external environment surrounding the Companys current remuneration arrangements: Consideration of external market developments and best practice in remuneration: Review of Committee performance in 2013 14:and Review of Committee terms of reference.
Other items Consideration of, and response to, the FRCs consultation on directors remuneration: Discussion of the application of the new reporting regulations to ensure transparent and clear disclosure to shareholders: Review of, and agreement to, amendments to share plan rules to support the Companys international strategy: Review of, and agreement to, remuneration packages for new senior managers: and Induction of new Remuneration Committee Chairman: What is the action plan for 2014 15?
Remuneration Committee action plan 2014 15 Ensuring the smooth transition to new Chair of Committee: Review and retender of independent external advisors to the Committee due to current advisors Deloitte being appointed as the Companys auditors: Review executive remuneration structures and targets to ensure balance with Company-wide offering: Review the Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme design, structure and rules for shareholder approval at 2015 AGM, as the current plans are reaching the end of their 10-year life: and Review the effectiveness and transparency of disclosures and reporting.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 77 Who advises the Committee?
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee is independently advised by external advisors.
The Committee was advised by Deloitte LLP during the year.
Deloitte are a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The code of conduct can be found at .
Deloitte were appointed as independent advisors in 2010 following a competitive tender process.
Deloitte provide independent commentary on matters under consideration by the Committee and updates on legislative requirements, best practice and market practice.
Deloittes fees are charged on an hourly basis.
During the year, Deloitte charged 76,000 for Remuneration Committee matters.
In addition to providing advice on executive remuneration, Deloitte has provided tax, consultancy and internal audit advice to the Group in the financial year.
With effect from 1 April 2014, Deloitte were appointed as external auditor to Marks and Spencer Group plc.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee will appoint a new advisor to replace Deloitte during 2014.
Until a new advisor is appointed, the Remuneration and Audit Committees have agreed that Deloitte will continue to provide advice to the Committee.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team provide objective and independent remuneration advice to the Committee, and do not have any connections with Marks and Spencer Group plc that may impair their independence.
The Committee also seeks internal support from the Chairman, CEO, Group Secretary, Director of Human Resources and Head of Reward & Global Mobility as necessary.
All may attend the Committee meetings by invitation but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
The Committee also regularly reviews external survey and bespoke benchmarking data including that published by New Bridge Street the trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, KPMG, PwC and Towers Watson.
How does the Committee engage with stakeholders?
Employee consultation The Committee is committed to ensuring that executive pay remains competitive, appropriate and fair in the context of the external market, company performance and the pay arrangements of the wider workforce.
In collaboration with the Head of Reward & Global Mobility, the Committee gives employees, through employee representatives, the opportunity to raise questions or concerns regarding the remuneration of the executive directors.
During the year, the Head of Reward & Global Mobility met with employee representatives to discuss the directors pay arrangements: no concerns were raised.
Upon reporting back on the discussions and outcome of this meeting, the Committee is satis ed that the pay arrangements for 2013 14 and 2014 15 remain appropriate for M&S.
Shareholder consultation The Committee is committed to a continuous, open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
The Committee held a Governance Event in June 2013 to review and debate remuneration with shareholders and representative bodies.
In addition, both Steven Holliday and Vindi Banga met with a number of investors as part of the handover process and ahead of consulting the Companys largest shareholders on proposals for the 2014 15 remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Shareholder support for the 2012 13 Directors remuneration report At the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2013, 91.94% of shareholders voted in favour of approving the Directors remuneration report for 2012 13.
The Committee believe this illustrates the strong level of shareholder support for the senior remuneration framework.
The table below shows full details of the voting outcomes for the 2012 13 Directors remuneration report.
votes for % votes for votes against % votes against votes withheld 877,888,013 91.94% 76,968,514 8.06% 6,029,313 Approved by the Board Steven Holliday, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee London 22 May 2014
