Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC 95 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Meggitt Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Act 2006 Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Accepted Accounting Practice.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set consistent with the parent company financial statements.
out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Matters on which we are required to report by give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent exception company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of from branches not visited by us: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the parent company financial statements and the part of the in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into with the accounting records and returns: or whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are consent in writing.
not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require Scope of the audit of the financial statements for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the group financial statements of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 for and on behalf of  LLP December 2010: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Reading Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 28 February 2011 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
