Independent auditors report consolidated statements Independent auditors report to the members Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies of Melrose PLC Act 2006 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of In our opinion the information given in the Directors report Melrose PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which for the financial year for which the consolidated financial comprise the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Cash Flows, the consolidated Balance Sheet, the Matters on which we are required to report by exception consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related We have nothing to report in respect of the following: notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the if, in our opinion: European Union.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys members, are not made: or as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the we have not received all the information and explanations we Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so require for our audit.
that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not the Directors statement, contained within the Directors accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the report, in relation to going concern: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation on Directors remuneration.
of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Other matter and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements We have reported separately on the Company financial in accordance with applicable law and International Standards statements of Melrose PLC for the year ended 31 December on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Nigel Mercer, ACA Senior Statutory Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London, UK policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and 9 March 2011 have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
