Company financial statements and notes INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MICRO FOCUS INTERNATIONAL PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Micro Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 which In our opinion: comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information given in the directors report for the financial year As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement for which the parent company financial statements are prepared set out on page 45, the directors are responsible for the preparation of is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Matters on which we are required to report by exception company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical in our opinion: Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of from branches not visited by us: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any the parent company financial statements and the part of the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our with the accounting records and returns: or prior consent in writing.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are Scope of the audit of the financial statements not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable we have not received all the information and explanations we assurance that the financial statements are free from material require for our audit.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Other matter parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2010. estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Pauline Campbell give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs Senior Statutory Auditor as at 30 April 2010: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Reading Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 11 August 2010 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77
