Consolidated financial statements and notes INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MICRO FOCUS INTERNATIONAL PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Micro Focus Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 International plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the In our opinion: consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of cash the information given in the directors report for the financial year ows, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in with the Group financial statements: and their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 30 to 35 with respect to internal control and risk Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors management systems and about share capital structures is As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities consistent with the financial statements.
set out on page 45, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satis ed that they Matters on which we are required to report by exception give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards if, in our opinion: Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only are not made: or for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
we have not received all the information and explanations We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility we require for our audit.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: by our prior consent in writing.
the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to Scope of the audit of the financial statements going concern: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable the part of the corporate governance statement relating to assurance that the financial statements are free from material the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matter adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting We have reported separately on the parent company financial estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the statements of Micro Focus International plc for the year financial statements.
ended 30 April 2010 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2010 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as for and on behalf of  LLP adopted by the European Union: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 11 August 2010 the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 46
