Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial Scope of the audit Matters on which we are statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for of the financial statements required to report by exception the year ended 25 September 2010, which An audit involves obtaining evidence about We have nothing to report in respect comprise the Group income statement, the the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the following: Group statement of comprehensive income, statements suf cient to give reasonable the Group balance sheet, the Group cash assurance that the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are ow statement, the Group statement of free from material misstatement, whether required to report to you if, in our opinion: changes in equity, and the related notes caused by fraud or error.
This includes an certain disclosures of Directors 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework assessment of: whether the accounting remuneration speci ed by law are not that has been applied in their preparation policies are appropriate to the Groups made: or is applicable law and International Financial circumstances and have been consistently we have not received all the information Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted applied and adequately disclosed: and explanations we require for our by the European Union.
the reasonableness of signi cant audit.
accounting estimates made by the This report is made solely to the Companys Directors: and the overall presentation Under the Listing Rules we are required members, as a body, in accordance with of the financial statements.
to review: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the Directors statement, set out on 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Opinion on financial statements page 29, in relation to going concern: and so that we might state to the Companys In our opinion the Group financial the part of the Corporate governance members those matters we are required statements: statement relating to the Companys to state to them in an auditors report and give a true and fair view of the state of compliance with the nine provisions of for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the Groups affairs as at 25 September the June 2008 Combined Code speci ed permitted by law, we do not accept or 2010 and of its loss for the year then for our review.
assume responsibility to anyone other than ended: the Company and the Companys members have been properly prepared in Other matters as a body, for our audit work, for this report, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by We have reported separately on the or for the opinions we have formed.
the European Union: and parent company financial statements of have been prepared in accordance with Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended Respective responsibilities the requirements of the Companies Act 25 September 2010 and on the information of Directors and auditors 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in the Directors remuneration report As explained more fully in the Directors that is described as having been audited.
responsibilities statement set out on Opinion on other matter prescribed page 30, the Directors are responsible by the Companies Act 2006 Nigel Meredith for the preparation of the Group financial In our opinion the information given Senior statutory auditor statements and for being satis ed that they in the Directors report for the year for For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility which the Group financial statements Statutory Auditor is to audit the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Birmingham in accordance with applicable law and Group financial statements.
22 November 2010 International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
54 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010
