97 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE We have audited the parent company financial Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended In our opinion the information given in the Directors report 31 March 2010 which comprise the Company Balance for the financial year for which the financial statements Sheet and the related notes 36 to 49.
The financial are prepared is consistent with the parent company reporting framework that has been applied in their financial statements.
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Matters on which we are required to report by exception Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally We have nothing to report in respect of the following 01 Accepted Accounting Practice.
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to This report is made solely to the companys members, report to you if, in our opinion: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 adequate accounting records have not been kept by of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit undertaken so that we might state to the companys have not been received from branches not visited by members those matters we are required to state to them in us: or an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the parent company financial statements are not in 08 responsibility to anyone other than the company and the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or companys members as a body, for our audit work, for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors we have not received all the information and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities explanations we require for our audit.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and Other matters for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have reported separately on the Group financial 38 Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended statements in accordance with applicable law and 31 March 2010 and on the information in the Directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Remuneration Report that is described as having Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing been audited.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Ian Krieger Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Bristol, United Kingdom give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 17 May 2010 are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview
