60 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE Group PLC For the year ended 31 March 2010 We have audited the Group financial statements of MITIE Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 which In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the the information given in the Directors report for the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the financial year for which the financial statements are Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement prepared is consistent with the Group financial of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash statements: and Flows and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the part of the Directors remuneration report to be applicable law and International Financial Reporting audited has been properly prepared in accordance Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, Matters on which we are required to report by exception as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report so that we might state to the Companys members those to you if, in our opinion: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the part of the Directors remuneration report to be permitted by law, we do not accept or assume audited is not in agreement with the accounting records responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the and returns: or companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors we have not received all the information and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities explanations we require for our audit.
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to the Directors statement contained within the Directors audit the Group financial statements in accordance with report: Corporate governance statement in relation to applicable law and International Standards on Auditing going concern: and UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical the part of the Corporate governance statement relating Standards for Auditors.
to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matters and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the parent company reasonable assurance that the financial statements are financial statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended free from material misstatement, whether caused by 31 March 2010. fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Ian Krieger Senior Statutory Auditor circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol, United Kingdom accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the 17 May 2010 overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
