qxp 3 3 11 8:01 AM Page 152 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi Limited Report on the components of the financial statements We have audited the accompanying statement of financial position and selected notes to the Mondi Limited parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Directors responsibility for the components of the financial statements The Companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the statement of financial position and selected notes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the statement of financial position and selected notes.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies related to the statement of financial position and selected notes used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the statement of financial position and selected notes has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable IFRS and the Companies Act of South Africa.
Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 18 February 2011 Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Building 33, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton Republic of South Africa National Executive GG Gelink Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Officer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory NB Kader Tax & Legal Services L Geeringh Consulting L Bam Corporate Finance JK Mazzocco Human Resources CR Beukman Finance TJ Brown Clients & Markets NT Mtoba Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board.
A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
B-BBEE rating: Level 2 contributor AAA certified by Empowerdex Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 152 Annual report and accounts 2010
