Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc.
Respective responsibilities of directors Opinion on other matter prescribed by We have audited the group financial and auditors the Companies Act 2006 statements of N Brown Group plc for As explained more fully in the Directors The part of the Directors' Remuneration the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 Responsibilities Statement, the directors report to be audited has been properly which comprise the Consolidated Income are responsible for the preparation of the prepared in accordance with the Statement, the Consolidated Balance group financial statements and for being Companies Act 2006: and Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
in our opinion the information given in Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Our responsibility is to audit the group the Directors Report for the financial Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated financial statements in accordance with period for which the financial statements Statement of Changes in Equity, the applicable law and International Standards are prepared is consistent with the Reconciliation of Operating Profit to on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Net Cash from Operating Activities and standards require us to comply with the the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Matters on which we are required to reporting framework that has been Standards for Auditors.
report by exception applied in their preparation is applicable We have nothing to report in respect of the law and International Financial Reporting Scope of the audit of the financial following: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the statements European Union.
An audit involves obtaining evidence Under the Companies Act 2006 we are about the amounts and disclosures required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the in the financial statements sufficient certain disclosures of directors companys members, as a body, in to give reasonable assurance that the remuneration specified by law are not accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of financial statements are free from material made: or the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work misstatement, whether caused by fraud we have not received all the information has been undertaken so that we might or error.
This includes an assessment and explanations we require for our state to the companys members those of: whether the accounting policies are audit.
matters we are required to state to them appropriate to the groups circumstances in an auditors report and for no other and have been consistently applied and Under the Listing Rules we are required to purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted adequately disclosed: the reasonableness review: by law, we do not accept or assume of significant accounting estimates the directors statement contained within responsibility to anyone other than the made by the directors: and the overall the Directors Report in relation to going company and the companys members as presentation of the financial statements.
concern: and a body, for our audit work, for this report, the part of the Corporate Governance or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on financial statements Statement relating to the companys In our opinion the group financial compliance with the nine provisions statements: of the June 2008 Combined Code give a true and fair view of the state of specified for our review.
the groups affairs as at 27 February 2010 and of its profit for the 52 week Other matter period then ended: We have reported separately on the parent have been properly prepared in company financial statements of N Brown accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 the European Union: and February 2010. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Sharon Fraser Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester, UK 11 May 2010 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43
