National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 29 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of Authority.
It is not appropriate for the auditors or the directors to National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 assess whether the nature of the information being reported March 2010 on pages 31 to 74 and 83 to 116 which comprise upon is suitable or appropriate for the Authoritys purposes.
the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of Accordingly we make no such assessment.
comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash The directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the flow statement, accounting policies, adoption of new accounting regulatory accounting statements and for compliance with the standards, notes 1 to 31 to the consolidated regulatory financial Condition, as described on page 28. statements and the further analysis by regulatory business of Our responsibility is to audit the regulatory accounting the five primary statements and notes 1 to 33 contained in statements in accordance with International Standards on appendix 3 and appendix 4.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to Board, except as stated in the Scope of the audit of the the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority financial statements, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Reporting to Regulators of Regulated the Authority in order to meet the requirements of Standard Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Regulatory Entities.
Those standards require us to comply with the Licence granted to the Company being the Gas Transporter Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Licence in respect of the Distribution Networks.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company Scope of the audit of the financial statements and the Authority those matters we have agreed to state to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and them in our report, in order to: a assist the Company to meet its obligations under the Regulatory Licence to procure such a disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to report: and b facilitate the carrying out by the Authority of its give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting statements are free from material misstatement, whether regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Authority for our audit work, for this report or the opinions we companys circumstances and have been consistently applied have formed.
and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Basis of preparation presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
However, The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared as the nature, form and content of the regulatory accounting under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the statements are determined by the Authority, we did not evaluate Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 31 to the overall adequacy of the presentation of information, which 37. would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Note 32 of appendix 4 includes disclosure of the revenues and Ireland.
costs of fide-minimis activities and other activities and note 33 of appendix 4 includes disclosure of amounts charged to or from We read the other information contained in the regulatory other businesses of National Grid plc or amounts determined by accounting statements, on which we do not express an audit opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we apportionment.
The Condition requires these disclosures to be made to the Authority, but allows the Company to remove these become aware of any apparent misstatements or material disclosures from the information made available to the public as inconsistencies with the regulatory accounting statements.
The per paragraph 10 of the Condition.
other information comprises: about regulatory accounting statements: the Operating and Financial Review: the corporate The regulatory accounting statements are separate from the governance statement and the Directors Report.
statutory financial statements of the Company.
Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements Markets Authority, the Directors and Auditors of the Company on which we reported on 2 July 2010, which The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting are prepared for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation statements are determined by the to the statutory financial statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken 30 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 so that we might state to the Companys members those Matters on which we are required to report by exception matters we are required to state to them in a Statutory auditors We also have nothing to report in respect of the following report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to the matters where the terms of our engagement require us to report fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any to you if, in our opinion: responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Statutory audit work, for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit our Statutory audit report, or for the opinions we have formed in have not been received from branches not visited by respect of that Statutory audit.
us: or the regulatory accounting statements are not in The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to agreement with the accounting records and returns: or be drawn up on the basis set out therein, including the separate certain disclosures of Directors remuneration disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of specified by law are not made: or National Grid plc or determined by apportionment.
The we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Directors of National Grid Gas plc are responsible for determining the bases of charges and apportionments, which requires a number of judgements and assumptions to be made.
We do not give an opinion on the appropriateness of the bases of charges and apportionments.
Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion, on the basis set out above, the regulatory Cornwall Court 19 Cornwall Street accounting statements fairly present in accordance with the Birmingham Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 31 to B3 2DT 37, the state of affairs for the Companys DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business, fide-minimis 29 July 2010 activities and other activities at 31 March 2010 and the profit and cash flows of its DN businesses, metering business, meter 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is reading business, fide-minimis activities and other activities for the responsibility of the Directors and the maintenance and the year then ended and have been properly prepared in integrity of the Authoritys web site is the responsibility of the Authority: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies.
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
