National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 29 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of for the Authoritys purposes.
Accordingly we make no such National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 assessment.
March 2010 on pages 31 to 74 and 83 to 116 which comprise The directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of regulatory accounting statements and for compliance with the comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, Condition, as described on page 28. consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement, accounting policies, adoption of new accounting Our responsibility is to audit the regulatory accounting standards, notes 1 to 31 to the consolidated regulatory financial statements in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices statements and the further analysis by regulatory business of the five primary statements and notes 1 to 33 contained in Board, except as stated in the Scope of the audit of the appendix 3 and appendix 4. financial statements, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Reporting to Regulators of Regulated This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to Entities.
Those standards require us to comply with the the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for the Authority in order to meet the requirements of Standard Auditors.
Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Regulatory Licence granted to the Company, being the Gas Transporter Scope of the audit of the financial statements Licence in respect of the NTS.
Our audit work has been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and undertaken so that we might state to the Company and the disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to Authority those matters we have agreed to state to them in our give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting report, in order to: a assist the Company to meet its statements are free from material misstatement, whether obligations under the Regulatory Licence to procure such a caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: report: and b facilitate the carrying out by the Authority of its whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest companys circumstances and have been consistently applied extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Authority for our audit work, for this report or the opinions we presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
as the nature, form and content of the regulatory accounting Basis of preparation statements are determined by the Authority, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the presentation of information, which The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared would have been required if we were to express an audit under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 31 to Ireland.
We read the other information contained in the regulatory Note 32 of appendix 4 includes disclosure of the revenues and accounting statements, on which we do not express an audit costs of fide-minimis activities and other activities and note 33 of opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we appendix 4 includes disclosure of amounts charged to or from become aware of any apparent misstatements or material other businesses of National Grid plc or amounts determined by inconsistencies with the regulatory accounting statements.
The Condition requires these disclosures to be other information comprises: about regulatory accounting made to the Authority, but allows the Company to remove these statements: the Operating and Financial Review: the corporate disclosures from the information made available to the public as governance statement and the Directors Report.
per paragraph 10 of the Condition.
Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is The regulatory accounting statements are separate from the separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements statutory financial statements of the Company.
of the Company on which we reported on 2 July 2010, which Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity are prepared for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation Markets Authority, the Directors and Auditors to the statutory financial statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the statements are determined by the Authority.
It is not appropriate for the auditors or the directors to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate 30 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2009 10 Companies Act 2006.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken Matters on which we are required to report by exception so that we might state to the Companys members those We also have nothing to report in respect of the following matters we are required to state to them in a Statutory auditors matters where the terms of our engagement require us to report report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to the to you if, in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit Companys members as a body, for our Statutory audit work, for have not been received from branches not visited by our Statutory audit report, or for the opinions we have formed in us: or respect of that Statutory audit.
the regulatory accounting statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration be drawn up on the basis set out therein, including the separate specified by law are not made: or disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
National Grid plc or determined by apportionment.
The Directors of National Grid Gas plc are responsible for determining the bases of charges and apportionments, which requires a number of judgements and assumptions to be made.
We do not give an opinion on the appropriateness of the bases  LLP of charges and apportionments.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Cornwall Court Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements 19 Cornwall Street Birmingham In our opinion, on the basis set out above, the regulatory B3 2DT accounting statements fairly present in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 31 to 29 July 2010 37, the state of affairs for the Companys NTS business, LNG storage business, the fide minimis activities and other activities 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is at 31 March 2010 and the profit and cash flows of its NTS the responsibility of the Directors and the maintenance and business, LNG storage business, fide minimis activities and other integrity of the Authoritys web site is the responsibility of the activities for the year then ended and have been properly Authority: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors prepared in accordance with the Condition and the accounting accept no responsibility for any changes that may have policies.
occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
