Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 47 47 Independent auditors report to the members of Ocado Group plc We have audited the group financial statements of Ocado Group Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 plc for the year ended 28 November 2010 which comprise In our opinion: the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement the information given in the Directors report for the financial of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement is consistent with the consolidated financial statements: and of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the information given in the Statement of Corporate Governance and International Financial reporting Standards IFrSs as adopted by set out on pages 33 to 40 with respect to internal control and the European Union.
risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement Matters on which we are required to report by exception set out on pages 24 and 25, the Directors are responsible for the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with in our opinion: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for we have not received all the information and explanations we the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of require for our audit.
Part 16 of the Companies Act and for no other purpose.
We do not, Under the Listing rules we are required to review: in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the Directors report, set out on pages 19 to 25, in relation to into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our going concern: and prior consent in writing.
the part of the Statement of Corporate Governance relating to Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of June 2008 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Combined Code specified for our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the parent company financial assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements of Ocado Group Plc for the year ended 28 November the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 2010 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting that is described as having been audited.
estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Clive Hinds Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of  llP In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at St Albans 28 November 2010 and of its loss and cash flows for the year 23 March 2011 then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the European Union: and Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS regulation.
