Independent Auditors Report The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent Auditors Report to the members of Pace plc We have audited the financial statements of Pace plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 33 to 73.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 29, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Pace plc Annual Report | 30 2010 R&A Front.
indd 32 10 03 2011 16:35 Independent Auditors Report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Financial Statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Contents adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 33 Financial Statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or 40 Notes to the Financial Statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
74 Directors, Secretary and Advisers Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 75 Five Year Record and Shareholder Information the directors statement, set out on page 17, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to the Shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Chris Hearld Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW 8 March 2011 31 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 33 10 03 2011 16:35 Financial Statements Contents 33 Financial Statements 40 Notes to the Financial Statements 74 Directors, Secretary and Advisers 75 Five Year Record and Shareholder Information Pace plc Annual Report | 32 2010 R&A Front.
