Independent Auditors Report to the Members of QinetiQ Group plc We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Consolidated In our opinion: Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated 2006: and Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and the financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Matters on which we are required to report by exception in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received companys members those matters we are required to state to them from branches not visited by us: or in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the parent company financial statements and the part of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement anyone other than the company and the companys members, with the accounting records and returns: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we require for our audit.
set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial the directors statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going statements in accordance with applicable law and International concern: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 28-35 for Auditors.
relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Mike Maloney Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor In our opinion: Chartered Accountants the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 8 Salisbury Square groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2010 London and of the groups loss for the year then ended: EC4Y 8BB the group financial statements have been properly prepared 2 June 2010 in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
