Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder and Other Information Auditors report To the Shareholders of Regus plc S. A.
26, Boulevard Royal L-2449 Luxembourg REPORT OF THE RVISEUR DENTREPRISES AGR Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give Report on the consolidated financial statements a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial Regus plc socit anonyme as of 31 December 2010, and statements of Regus plc socit anonyme, which comprise of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2010 cash ows for the year then ended, in accordance with and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by income, changes in equity and cash ows for the year then the European Union.
ended, and a summary of signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The consolidated Directors report, which is the responsibility Board of Directors responsibility for the consolidated of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements financial statements.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as KPMG Audit S. r. l. adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control Cabinet fide rvision agr as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the Thierry Ravasio preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free Luxembourg, 21 March 2011 from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Responsibility of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Rviseur dEntreprises agr considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 www.
