Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc 25 We have audited the financial statements of Renishaw plc for OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE the year ended 30th June 2010 set out on pages 26 to 54.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has 2006: and been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial the information given in the Directors report for the financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK year for which the financial statements are prepared is Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act EXCEPTION 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or if, in our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent report, or for the opinions we have formed.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS the parent company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in set out on page 24, the directors are responsible for the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit are not made: or the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations we standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices require for our audit.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the directors statement, set out on page 21, in relation to going A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is concern: and provided on the APBs web-site at www.
the part of the corporate governance statement as contained in the Directors corporate governance report relating to the OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June In our opinion: 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30th June 2009 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in A C Campbell-Orde Senior Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly For and on behalf of prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: KPMG Audit Plc 100 Temple Street Statutory Auditor Bristol the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Chartered Accountants BS1 6AG the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards 28th July 2010 the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
