Financial statements 111 Independent auditors report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 53 to 102 and 104 by the Companies Act 2006 to 110.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and In our opinion: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable 2006: and law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Accounting Practice.
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, with the financial statements.
in accordance with chapter 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Matters on which we are required to report auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, we have formed.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of directors company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and auditors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the of Directors responsibilities statement the parent company financial statements and the part of the set out on page 23, the directors are responsible for the preparation Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a agreement with the accounting records and returns: or true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable are not made: or law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations we standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards require for our audit.
APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 33 to A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 34 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions on the APBs website at www.
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on Opinion on financial statements directors remuneration.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Simon Figgis Senior Statutory Auditor the parent company financial statements have been properly for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Chartered Accountants Practice: 15 Canada Square the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with London the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards E14 5GL the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
14 March 2011 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
