Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  in relation to Australian legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
We have audited the financial statements of Rio Tinto the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of financial position, the Group statement of changes in equity and notes 1 to 51, the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements and the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
 LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet and the related notes.
 has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom and applicable law in Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 the ASIC Order described in the Australian Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors declaration set out on page 255, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and the Independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 308 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Group, of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
In conducting its audit,  has complied with the independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001. www.
com 257 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to the members of Rio Tinto plc the Directors report, set out on page 113, in relation to going concern: In our opinion: part of the Corporate governance section of the Annual report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the relating to the Rio Tinto plcs compliance with the nine provisions Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in directors remuneration.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Ross Hunter Accounting Practice: and Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the London Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
4 March 2011 Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in Opinion of  on the financial addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted statements to the members of Rio Tinto Limited by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the In our opinion: International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies then ended: Act 2006 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: accordance with the ASIC Order.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB out on pages 114 to 127 in the Annual report with respect to As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group internal control and risk management systems and about share in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with capital structures is consistent with the financial statements: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the the information given in the Directors report for the financial year IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with the financial statements.
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Opinion on other matters We have nothing to report in respect of the following: In our opinion: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the Remuneration report included in the accompanying Annual our opinion: report complies with the requirements of the Section 300A as amended by the ASIC Order: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the information given in the Directors report for the financial year branches not visited by us: or for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Robert Hubbard certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Partner not made: or  Brisbane we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or 4 March 2011 a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Rio Tinto plc.
com 259 Financial summary 2001 2010 continued a Information for the years 2001 to 2003 is stated under UK GAAP and has not been restated except where indicated below.
b Shareholders funds for 2001 and prior years were restated following the implementation of FRS 19 in 2002. c Information for the years 2004 to 2009 is stated under EU IFRS.
The Group implemented IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 without restatement of comparatives.
d Adjustments have been made for 2002 and subsequent years to include in sales revenue, certain amounts charged to customers for freight and handling costs, which previously were deducted from operating costs.
e Certain units that were equity accounted under UK GAAP are proportionally consolidated under EU IFRS and vice-versa.
Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units in addition to Consolidated sales revenue after adjusting for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiaries sales to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
f Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its EU IFRS results to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
It is defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Underlying earnings is similar but not identical to the Adjusted earnings measure that Rio Tinto reported with its UK GAAP results.
Adjusted earnings was defined as excluding exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion was necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfilled their purpose of reflecting the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying profit before interest and tax PBIT and Adjusted PBIT are similar to Underlying earnings and Adjusted earnings except that they are stated before tax and interest.
g Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount.
h Under EU IFRS, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Groups Net earnings.
Under UK GAAP, these did not have an impact on the income statement.
These items are excluded from Underlying earnings.
i Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year.
These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a Final dividend paid after the end of the year.
The Special dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table.
2001 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues the bonus factor.
j Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units.
k Capital expenditure comprises purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets plus direct funding provided to equity accounted units for Rio Tintos share of their capital expenditure.
The figures include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure, but exclude that of equity accounted units except where directly funded by Rio Tinto.
l Total cash flow from operations comprises Cash flow from consolidated operations together with Dividends from equity accounted units.
Exploration and evaluation costs charged against income were previously included in Cash used in investing activities but are now included within Cash flow from operating activities.
As a result, exploration and evaluation costs expensed have been reclassified in the comparative periods within the cash flow statement.
m Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to Rio Tinto shareholders, which involved restatement of 2003 and prior years.
n Operating margin is the percentage of Underlying Adjusted PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue.
o Total capital comprises year end shareholders funds plus net debt and outside shareholders interests.
p Underlying Adjusted earnings: shareholders funds represent Underlying or Adjusted earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
q Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest is covered by Underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units.
Underlying operating profit is similar to Underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
r The 31 December 2007 statement of financial position was restated for the revisions to Alcans fair value accounting which was finalised in 2008. s 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and Underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July rights issues the bonus factor.
2001 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
