Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 45 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rotork p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements Opinion on financial statements the parent Company financial of Rotork p. l. c. for the year ended 31 In our opinion: statements and the part of the December 2010 set out on pages 46 to Directors Remuneration Report to the financial statements give a 89.
The financial reporting framework that be audited are not in agreement with true and fair view of the state of the has been applied in the preparation of the Groups and of the parent Companys the accounting records and returns: or Group financial statements is applicable affairs as at 31 December 2010 certain disclosures of directors law and International Financial Reporting and of the Groups profit for the remuneration specified by law Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
are not made: or year then ended: The financial reporting framework that we have not received all the the Group financial statements have has been applied in the preparation of been properly prepared in accordance information and explanations the parent Company financial statements with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: we require for our audit: or is applicable law and UK Accounting the parent Company financial a Corporate Governance Statement Standards UK Generally Accepted has not been prepared by statements have been properly Accounting Practice.
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting This report is made solely to the Practice: Under the Listing Rules we are required Companys members, as a body, in the financial statements have been to review: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 the directors statement, set out on prepared in accordance with the of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit page 44, in relation to going concern: requirements of the Companies Act work has been undertaken so that we 2006: and, as regards the Group the part of the Corporate Governance might state to the Companys members financial statements, Article 4 of Statement on page 32 relating to those matters we are required to state the IAS Regulation.
the Companys compliance with the to them in an auditors report and for nine provisions of the June 2008 no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Combined Code specified for our Opinion on other matters prescribed permitted by law, we do not accept or by the Companies Act 2006 review: and assume responsibility to anyone other In our opinion: certain elements of the report than the Company and the Companys the part of the Directors to shareholders by the Board on members, as a body, for our audit work, directors remuneration.
Remuneration Report to be audited for this report, or for the opinions we has been properly prepared in have formed.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of the information given in the Directors directors and auditors Report for the financial year for which As explained more fully in the Directors the financial statements are prepared Responsibilities Statement set out on is consistent with the financial page 44, the directors are responsible statements: and for the preparation of the financial the information given in the Corporate AC Campbell-Orde statements and for being satisfied Senior Statutory Auditor Governance Statement set out on that they give a true and fair view.
Our pages 32 to 36 with respect to responsibility is to audit, and express internal control and risk management for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, an opinion on, the financial statements systems in relation to financial Statutory Auditor in accordance with applicable law and reporting processes and about share International Standards on Auditing Chartered Accountants capital structures is consistent with UK and Ireland.
Those standards 100 Temple Street the financial statements.
require us to comply with the Auditing Bristol Practices Boards APBs Ethical Matters on which we are required to BS1 6AG Standards for Auditors.
report by exception 28 February 2011 We have nothing to report in respect of Scope of the audit of the financial the following: statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are A description of the scope of an audit of required to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements is provided on the adequate accounting records have not APBs web-site at www.
uk apb been kept by the parent Company, or scope private.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or
