Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SDL plc We have audited the financial statements of SDL plc the financial statements have been prepared for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages in accordance with the requirements of the 71 to 119.
The financial reporting framework that has Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group been applied in the preparation of the group financial financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed financial reporting framework that has been applied by the Companies Act 2006 in the preparation of the parent company financial In our opinion: statements is applicable law and UK Accounting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
to be audited has been properly prepared in This report is made solely to the companys members, accordance with the Companies Act 2006: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the information given in the Directors Report for the the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been financial year for which the financial statements are undertaken so that we might state to the companys prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Matters on Which We are Required to fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Report by Exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the company We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective Responsibilities of Directors adequate accounting records have not been kept and Auditors by the parent company, or returns adequate for our As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities audit have not been received from branches not Statement set out on page 69, the directors are responsible visited by us: or for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our the parent company financial statements and the responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financial statements in accordance with applicable law audited are not in agreement with the accounting and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
records and returns: or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of directors remuneration Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
specified by law are not made: or Scope of the Audit of the Financial we have not received all the information and Statements explanations we require for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
the directors statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern.
Opinion on Financial Statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on In our opinion: page 39 relating to the companys compliance with the financial statements give a true and fair view the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined of the state of the groups and of the parent Code specified for our review: and companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of certain elements of the report to the shareholders the groups profit for the year then ended: by the Board on Directors remuneration.
the group financial statements have been properly P Gresham Senior Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor the EU: Chartered Accountants the parent company financial statements have been 15 Canada Square properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally London E14 5GL Accepted Accounting Practice: 21 March 2011 70
