Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Severn Trent Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Act 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes the financial year for which the financial statements are in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 40.
The financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation We have nothing to report in respect of the following: is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so law are not made, or that we might state to the companys members those matters we have not received all the information and explanations we we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for require for our audit.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: company and the companys members as a body, for our audit the directors statement contained within the directors report work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they Other matters give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Report that is described as having been audited.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Douglas King Senior Statutory Auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
London, UK This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 27 May 2010 policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
