112 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Matters on which we are required to report by exception Severn Trent plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which We have nothing to report in respect of the following matter comprise the company balance sheet, the company statement where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you, of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to if in our opinion: 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted been received from branches not visited by us: or Accounting Practice.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by that we might state to the companys members those matters law are not made: or we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we have not received all the information and explanations we no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do require for our audit.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Other matter work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Severn Trent plc for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being Douglas King Senior Statutory Auditor satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP is to audit the parent company financial statements in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors accordance with applicable law and International Standards London, UK on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to 27 May 2010 comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
