Financial statements 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 69 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Matters on which we are required to report by exception of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and the related We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where consolidated statements of income, equity, comprehensive income and the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the related Notes in our opinion: 1 to 33 together, the Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited the visited by us: or information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or We have reported separately on the parent company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2010. for our audit.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body Matters on which we are required to report by the Listing Rules in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have nothing to report in respect of our duty under the Listing Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Rules to review: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extentthe Directors statement contained within the Financial Statements permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone in relation to going concern: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, thecertain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration report and the Financial Statements are set Directors remuneration.
out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements and the Other matters part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have Those standards require us to comply with the United Kingdom applied were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom: Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Financial Statements: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has assurance that the financial statements are free from material been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Companies Act 2006 that would have applied were the Company assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate incorporated in the United Kingdom.
to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Paul Franek accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP presentation of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors London, United Kingdom Opinion on the Financial Statements February 23, 2011 In our opinion the Financial Statements: present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
