INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Smith & Nephew plc We have audited the group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash FlowStatement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the companyand the companys members as a body, forour audit work, forthis report, orforthe opinionswe have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 75 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards forAuditors.
Scope of the audit of the accounts An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the accounts.
Opinion on accounts In our opinionthe group accounts: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2010and of its profitforthe year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006and Article4 of the IASRegulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group accounts are prepared is consistent with the group accounts.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the informationand explanations we require forour audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 CombinedCode specified forour review.
2010Annual Report 76 Other matter We have reported separately on the Company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and on the informationin the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the Group accounts, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also compiledwith IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010and of its profitforthe year then ended.
Les Clifford Senior statutory auditor forand on behalf of Ernst &Young LLP, StatutoryAuditor London 24 February 2011 2010Annual Report 77 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
