INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC overview business review governance financial statements We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 The part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or The parent Company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities Report on directors remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Other matter the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Richard Wilson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
London 3 March 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 103
