Independent audItors report to the members of spIrent CommunICatIons plC overview business review governance financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated In our opinion: statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their The information given in the Report of the directors for the preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting financial year for which the Group financial statements are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Matters on which we are required to report by exception accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our We have nothing to report in respect of the following: audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we not made: or have formed.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they The directors statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an concern: and opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Combined Code specified for our review: and Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent Company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Report on directors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to remuneration that is described as having been audited.
the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Richard Wilson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at London 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: 3 March 2011 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 53
