report of the independent auditor to the members of sports direct international plc opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of sports direct in our opinion: international plc for the 52 week period to 25 april 2010 which the information given in the directors report for the 52 week comprise, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated period to 25 april 2010 for which the financial statements are statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance prepared is consistent with the financial statements, and sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and notes 1 to 36. the financial the information given in the corporate Governance statement reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is set out on pages 41 to 47 with respect to internal control and applicable law and international Financial reporting standards risk management systems in relation to financial reporting iFrss as adopted by the european union.
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part i of the companies act 2006. our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility report by exception to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: have formed.
under the companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respective responsibilities of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities require for our audit: or statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a a corporate Governance statement has not been prepared by true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit the Group financial the company statements in accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require under the listing rules we are required to review: us to comply with the auditing practices Boards apBs ethical standards for auditors.
the directors statement, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 scope of the audit of the financial combined code specified for our review.
statements a description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is other matters provided on the apBs web-site at www.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of sports direct international plc for the 52 week period to 25 april 2010 and the information in the directors opinion on financial statements remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
in our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at paul Etherington 25 april 2010 and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Grant thornton uK llp, have been properly prepared in accordance with iFrss as statutory auditor, chartered accountants adopted by the european union: and london have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 22 July 2010 companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias regulation.
