INDEpENDENT AUDIToRS REpoRT To ThE MEMbERS of SSl INTERNATIoNAl plC We have audited the financial statements of SSL International plc for opinion on other mAtters prescriBed the year ended 31 March 2010 set out on pages 54 to 109.
The financial By the compAnies Act 2006 reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the In our opinion: Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a financial statements.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to mAtters on which we Are required the Companys members those matters we are required to state to to report By exception them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the following: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for you if, in our opinion: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received respective responsiBilities of directors And Auditors from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 52, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in with the accounting records and returns: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing made: or Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require scope of the Audit of the finAnciAl stAtements for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: on the APBs website at www.
the Directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going opinion on finAnciAl stAtements concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 37 to 39 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010 and June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
of the Groups profit for the year then ended: nick plumB SENIOR STATUTORy AUDITOR the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in FOR AND ON BEHALF OF KPMG AUDIT PLC, STATUTORy AUDITOR accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 8 Salisbury Square prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting London EC4y 8BB Practice: and 17 May 2010 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
