Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Company Financial Statements of Stobart Opinion on financial statements Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010 which comprise In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: the Income Statement, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, The Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes In Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as Equity, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes A to L. The at 28 February 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting adopted by the European Union: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with the requireThis report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, ments of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state Matters on which we are required to report by exception to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the report to you if, in our opinion: companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: The Companys accounts are not in agreement with the accountRespective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors ing records: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement We have not received all the information and explanations we set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the require for our audit.
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Other matter Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010.
APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Stuart Watson Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 12 May 2010 disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the FinancialStatements.
