Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group Opinion on financial statements Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010 which comprise the In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the 28 February 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adopted by the European Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Matters on which we are required to report by exception to the companys members those matters we are required to state We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume report to you if, in our opinion: responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: or for the opinions we have formed.
The Companys accounts are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement require for our audit.
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being Other matter satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices February 2010.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Stuart Watson Scope of the audit of the financial statements For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 12 May 2010 disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
