Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 35 Independent auditors report to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 In our opinion the Group financial statements: which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that adopted by the European Union: and has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Matters on which we are required to report by exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We have nothing to report in respect of the following: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities are not made: or Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation we have not received all the information and explanations we of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that require for our audit.
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the directors statement, contained within Directors Report, comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards in relation to going concern: for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give on directors remuneration.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Other matter error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting We have reported separately on the parent company financial policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Stuart Henderson Senior Statutory Auditor statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Cambridge, United Kingdom 9 March 2011
