Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC: Parent company financial statements We have audited the Parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the Parent company balance sheet and the Notes to the Parent In our opinion: company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework n the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
n the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the Parent company financial statements are prepared Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors is consistent with the Parent company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out on page 57, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical received from branches not visited by us: or Standards for Auditors.
n the Parent company financial statements and the part of the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter with the accounting records and returns: or 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
n certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility not made: or for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is n we have not received all the information and explanations we shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly require for our audit.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Tate&Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of  LLP the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 1 Embankment Place accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall London WC2N 6RH presentation of the financial statements.
26 May 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent company financial statements: Note: the maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not n give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept as at 31 March 2010: no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial n have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and n have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
