Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tate & Lyle PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Companies Act 2006 income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the income, the Consolidated statement of financial position, Consolidated financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of changes consistent with the Group financial statements.
in shareholders equity and the related Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been Matters on which we are required to report by exception applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities n certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law set out on page 57, the directors are responsible for the preparation of are not made: or the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they n we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group we require for our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical n the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation Standards for Auditors.
to going concern: and n the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Combined Code specified for our review.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Other matter other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or We have reported separately on the Parent company financial into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 prior consent in writing.
and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of  LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to London the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 26 May 2010 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Note: the maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not Opinion on financial statements involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept In our opinion the Group financial statements: no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial n give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements since they were initially presented on the website.
31 March 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: n have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and n have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
