Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 52weeks ended 27 February 2010 which comprise the Group Income In our opinion: Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group the information given in the Directors Report for the 52 weeks ended Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement 27 February 2010 for which the Group financial statements are prepared of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting is consistent with the Group financial statements.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Matters on which we are required to report by exception the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set our opinion: out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true made: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing we have not received all the information and explanations we require UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing for our audit: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to the Directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may concern: and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Other matter financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 and on the policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of having been audited.
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the Group financial statements: London give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 5 May 2010 27February 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 69
