Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Tesco PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 which comprise the Parent In our opinion: Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
t he information given in the Directors Report for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 for which the Parent Company financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set statements.
out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Matters on which we are required to report by exception give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to ade quate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of t he Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or accounting records and returns: or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it c ertain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures for our audit.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Other matter by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010. been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Richard Winter Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 5 May 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 27February 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 131
