Independent Auditors Report to the members of Tullow Oil plc 6 We have audited the Group financial statements of Tullow Oil plc In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement, Act 2006 the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the financial year for which the Group financial statements are applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as We have nothing to report in respect of the following: a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report that we might state to the Companys members those matters to you if, in our opinion: we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do by law are not made: or not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We have not received all the information and explanations work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities The Directors statement contained within the Directors Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation report in relation to going concern: and of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that The part of the Corporate governance statement relating they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of express an opinion on the Group financial statements in the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Board on Directors remuneration.
Other matters Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 2010 and on the information in the Directors remuneration reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free report that is described as having been audited.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Matthew Donaldson Senior Statutory Auditor the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonChartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial information in the annual report to identify material London, UK inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 8 March 2011 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
