Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media Limited We have audited the parent company financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the parent company profit and loss account, the parent company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and our engagement letter dated 28 February 2011.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to report to you our opinion on: Whether the section of the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
Whether the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
The information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us.
The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Les Clifford for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, London 1 March 2011 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the United Business Media Limited website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 141
