Financial statements Auditors report Netherlands Independent auditors report An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Unilever statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors N. V. judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due Report on the consolidated financial statements to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor We have audited the consolidated financial statements as set out on considers internal control relevant to the companys preparation and pages 72 to 123 and 126 to 127 which are part of the Annual Report fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to and Accounts 2010 of the Unilever Group for the year ended 31 design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, December 2010, which comprise the consolidated income statement, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated of the companys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating statement of changes in equity, consolidated balance sheet, the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the consolidated cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as financial statements, comprising a summary of significant accounting well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated policies and other explanatory information.
Directors responsibility We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International statements Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors in fair view of the financial position of the Unilever Group as at accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
31 December 2010, and of its result and its cash flows for the year Furthermore, the directors are responsible for such internal control as then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the consolidated financial statements that are free from material International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Separate report on company accounts Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated We have reported separately on the company accounts of Unilever financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2010. accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and Report on other legal and regulatory requirements plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as misstatement.
a result of our examination whether the Report of the Directors, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed.
Further we report that the Report of the Directors, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements as required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1 March 2011  Accountants N. V. R A J Swaak RA 70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Financial statements Auditors report United Kingdom Independent auditors report to the members of Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Unilever PLC As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as We have audited the group financial statements of Unilever Group adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity, In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement, and issued by the IASB.
the related notes on pages 72 to 123 and 126 to 127.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Act 2006 as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion, the information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they We have nothing to report in respect of the following: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with in our opinion: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only require for our audit.
for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the Directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly concern: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable directors remuneration.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Other matters assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have reported separately on the parent company financial the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and statements of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the described as having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Richard Sexton 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year Senior Statutory Auditor then ended: For and on behalf of  LLP have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by the European Union: and London, United Kingdom have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 1 March 2011 Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71
