Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Victrex plc We have audited the financial statements of Victrex plc for the year Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies ended 30 September 2010 set out on pages 37 to 71.
The financial Act 2006 reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is In our opinion: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent Company financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 2006: and Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in with the financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the matters on which we are required to report by exception Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We have nothing to report in respect of the following.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a our opinion: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent formed.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Parent Company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Responsibility Statement of the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Directors set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit not made: or the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require for our audit.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going Scope of the audit of the financial statements concern: and A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the provided on the APBs website at www.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year then David Bills Senior Statutory Auditor ended: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants the Parent Company financial statements have been properly St James Square prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as Manchester applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act M2 6DS 2006: and 6 December 2010 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
