122 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the The Weir Group PLC Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir In our opinion: Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 which the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in and their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Practice.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Matters on which we are required to report by exception 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters state to the Companys members those matters we are required where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, received from branches not visited by us: or or for the opinions we have formed.
the Company financial statements and the part of the RemuRespective responsibilities of directors & auditors neration report to be audited are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities accounting records and returns: or set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express are not made: or an opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations we applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 December An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and dis- 2010. closures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Glasgow Opinion on financial statements 8 March 2011 In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
