69 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the The Weir Group PLC Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 which the financial year for which the Group financial statements are comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Matters on which we are required to report by exception Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting if, in our opinion: Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, are not made: or in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act we have not received all the information and explanations we 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might require for our audit.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the directors statement, set out on page 43, in relation to going assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the concern: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on preparation of the Group financial statements and for being directors remuneration.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Other matter audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements We have reported separately on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks to 31 December 2010 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from mateHywel Ball Senior statutory auditor rial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are approGlasgow priate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signifi- 8 March 2011 cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
