INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMbERS Of Wh SMITh PLC We have audited the parent Company financial Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 Act 2006 August 2010 which comprise the Company Balance In our opinion: Sheet and the related Notes 1 to 9.
The financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to reporting framework that has been applied in their be audited has been properly prepared in accordance preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom with the Companies Act 2006: and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the information given in the Directors Report for the Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company This report is made solely to the Companys members, financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Matters on which we are required to report by exception undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the following members those matters we are required to state to them matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the to report to you if, in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have and the Companys members as a body, for our audit not been received from branches not visited by us: or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors are not in agreement with the accounting records and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities returns: or Statement, the directors are responsible for the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified preparation of the parent company financial statements by law are not made: or and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair we have not received all the information and view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company explanations we require for our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Other matters Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with We have reported separately on the Group financial the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors give reasonable assurance that the financial statements London, United Kingdom are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 14 October 2010 fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 August 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Wh Smith PLC 71
