INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMbERS Of Wh SMITh PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on financial statements WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2010 In our opinion the Group financial statements: which comprise the Group Income Statement, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group affairs as at 31 August 2010 and of its profit for Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the the year then ended: Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related have been properly prepared in accordance with Notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and has been applied in their preparation is applicable have been prepared in accordance with the law and International Financial Reporting Standards requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been In our opinion the information given in the Directors undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Report for the financial year for which the financial members those matters we are required to state to them statements are prepared is consistent with the Group in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Matters on which we are required to report by exception and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We have nothing to report in respect of the following: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration Statement, the directors are responsible for the specified by law are not made: or preparation of the Group financial statements and for we have not received all the information and being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our explanations we require for our audit.
responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards the directors statement contained within the require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Directors Report in relation to going concern: and APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine Scope of the audit of the financial statements provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Other matters are free from material misstatement, whether caused by We have reported separately on the parent company fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups ended 31 August 2010 and on the information in the circumstances and have been consistently applied and Directors Remuneration Report that is described adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant as having been audited.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 14 October 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Wh Smith PLC 37
