25 Independent auditors statement to the members of wm Morrison Supermarkets PlC We have examined the Summary financial Basis of opinion statement for the 52 week period ended We conducted our work in accordance with 31 January 2010 which comprises the Summary Bulletin 2008 3 The auditors statement on consolidated statement of comprehensive the Summary financial statement in the United income, Summary consolidated balance sheet, Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices Summary consolidated cash flow statement Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual on pages 26 to 27 and Summary Directors financial statements describes the basis of our remuneration report set out on pages 21 to 24. audit opinion on those financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors This statement is made solely to the Companys remuneration report.
members, as a body, in accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has Opinion been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion the Summary financial statement Companys members those matters we are is consistent with the full Annual financial required to state to them in such a statement statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of Wm Morrison and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Supermarkets PLC for the 52 week period ended 31 January 2010, and complies with the applicable responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have not considered the effects of any events Respective responsibilities of between the date on which we signed our report on the full annual financial statements 10 March Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing 2010 and the date of this statement.
the Annual review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Chris Hearld for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants on the consistency of the Summary financial statement within the Annual review with the 1 The Embankment full Annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration Neville Street Leeds report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies LS1 4DW Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
15 April 2010 We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
