44 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have audited the financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 set out on pages 45 to 85.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial in our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them accounting records and returns: or in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in The Directors statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going accordance with applicable law and International Standards on concern: and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Scope of the audit of the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope UKP Opinion on financial statements Chris Hearld In our opinion: Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2010 Chartered Accountants and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 1 The Embankment Neville Street The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Leeds accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: LS1 4DW 10 March 2010 The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010
