Our 2010 financial statements Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members Respective responsibilities of directors of WPP plc and auditors We have audited the Group and parent company financial As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statements the financial statements of WPP plc for the year Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the accounting of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they policies, the consolidated income statement excluding the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and US Dollar information, the consolidated statement of express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with of changes in equity, the parent company profit and loss the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards account and balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 40. for Auditors.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Scope of the audit of the financial statements Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts preparation of the parent company financial statements is and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud This report is made solely to the Companys members, as or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so parent companys circumstances and have been consistently that we might state to the Companys members those matters applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of we are required to state to them in an auditors report and significant accounting estimates made by the directors: for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 183 Our 2010 financial statements  Opinion on financial statements Matters on which we are required to report byexception In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required at 31 December 2010 and of the Groups profit and parent to report to you if, in our opinion: companys loss for the year then ended: proper accounting records have not been kept by the the Group financial statements have been properly parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the have not been received from branches not visited by us: or European Union: the financial statements are not in agreement with the the parent company financial statements have been accounting records and returns: or properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and we require for our audit.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Under the UK Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued byIASB Graham Richardson Individual responsible for the As explained in the accounting policies to the financial Audit for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European London, United Kingdom Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 18 April 2011 Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Other matters In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors report in relation to going concern as if the Company had been incorporated in the UK and have nothing to report to you in that respect.
