Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 219 Independent Auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise Act 2006 the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the information given in the Directors report for the financial in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act year for which the financial statements are prepared is 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Matters on which we are required to report by exception fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement received from branches not visited by us: or set out on page 132, the directors are responsible for the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility agreement with the accounting records and returns: or is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require are not made: or us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical we have not received all the information and explanations we Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2010. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Mirco Bardella Senior statutory auditor the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant London, United Kingdom accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 16 March 2011 presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors as at 31 December 2010: does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have have been properly prepared in accordance with United occurred to the financial statements since they were initially Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and presented on the website.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
