Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 133 Independent Auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Xstrata plc for Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the consolidated Act 2006 income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated In our opinion: cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive the information given in the Directors report for the financial income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that consistent with the Group financial statements: and has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the information given in the Corporate Governance report as by the European Union.
set out on page 110 to 118 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, processes and about share capital structures is consistent in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the if, in our opinion: Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law or for the opinions we have formed.
are not made: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set we have not received all the information and explanations we out on page 132, the directors are responsible for the preparation of require for our audit: or the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Corporate Governance report has not been prepared by a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an the Company.
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ireland.
Those Standards require us to comply with the Auditing the Directors report, set out on page 109, in relation Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance report relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to on directors remuneration.
the Groups circumstances, and have been consistently applied and Other matter adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the statements of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 financial statements.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Opinion on financial statements is described as having been audited.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Mirco Bardella Senior Statutory Auditor at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as London, United Kingdom adopted by the European Union: and 16 March 2011 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
