Independent auditors report to the members of Yell Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Yell Opinion on financial statements Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010, which In our opinion: comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group The financial statements give a true and fair Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group view of the state of the Groups and of the and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Parent Companys aairs as at 31 March 2010 and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, and of the Groups profit and Groups and Parent and the Group and Parent Company Statements Companys cash ows for the year then ended.
of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The Group financial statements have been The financial reporting framework that has been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs applied in their preparation is applicable law and as adopted by the European Union.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Parent Company financial statements as adopted by the European Union and, as regards have been properly prepared in accordance the Parent Company financial statements, as applied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union in accordance with the provisions of the Companies and as applied in accordance with the provisions Act 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The financial statements have been prepared As explained more fully in the Directors in accordance with the requirements of Responsibilities Statement set out on page 44, the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the directors are responsible for the preparation the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the financial statements and for being satisfied of the lAS Regulation.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance Opinion on other matters prescribed by the with applicable law and International Standards Companies Act 2006 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards In our opinion: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices The part of the Directors Remuneration Report Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members The information given in the Directors Report as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 for the financial year for which the financial of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other statements are prepared is consistent with the purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility for any other The information given in the Corporate Governance purpose or to any other person to whom this Statement set out on page 43 about share report is shown or into whose hands it may capital structures and the information given in come save where expressly agreed by our prior the Principal Risks section on page 18 with respect consent in writing.
to internal control and risk management systems is consistent with the financial statements.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sucient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
56 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Yell Group plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
The parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Richard Pollard Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 8 June 2010 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 57
