If we become aware of any apparent Independent Auditors Report to the material misstatements or inconsistencies we Members of F&C Commercial Property consider the implications for our report.
Trust Limited We have audited the Group financial statements the Opinion on Financial Statements financial statements of F&C Commercial Property In our opinion the financial statements: Trust Limited the Group for the year ended.
give a true and fair view of the state of the 31 December 2010 which comprise the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated of its profit for the year then ended: Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated.
are in accordance with International Financial Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB: and Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, financial reporting framework that has been applied 2008. in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by issued by the IASB.
Exception This report is made solely to the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the members, as a body, in accordance with section following matters where the Companies Guernsey 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our audit work has been undertaken so that we might opinion: state to the Companys members those matters we.
the Company has not kept proper accounting are required to state to them in an auditors report records, or and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume.
the financial statements are not in agreement with responsibility to anyone other than the Company the accounting records: or and the Companys members as a body, for our.
we have not received all the information and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we explanations, which to the best of our knowledge have formed.
and belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor We have nothing to report with respect to the As explained more fully in the Directors following: Responsibilities set out on page 26, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review statements and for being satisfied that they give a the part of the Corporate Governance Statement true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and relating to the Companys compliance with the nine express an opinion on the financial statements in provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code accordance with applicable law and International specified for our review.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Steven D Stormonth for and on behalf of Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements KPMG Channel Islands Limited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 22 March 2011 financial statements are free from material The Directors are responsible for the maintenance misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
and integrity of the corporate and financial This includes an assessment of: whether the information included on the Companys website.
accounting policies are appropriate to the The work carried out by the auditor does not Companys circumstances and have been include consideration of these matters and, consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the accordingly the auditor accepts no responsibility for reasonableness of significant accounting estimates any changes that may have occurred to the financial made by the Board of Directors: and the overall statements or audit report since they were initially presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, presented on the website.
Legislation governing the we read all the financial and non-financial preparation and dissemination of financial information in the Annual Report to identify material statements may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
inconsistencies with the audited financial Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
