Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited We have audited the financial statements of UK Commercial Opinion on financial statements Property Trust Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010 In our opinion the financial statements: which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting framework then ended: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by adopted by the European Union: the European Union.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Matters on which we are required to report by Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so exception that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the report to you if, in our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting records: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities we have not received all the information and explanations Statement set out on page 23, the directors are responsible for we require for our audit.
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey law and International the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Michael R Bane disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Guernsey material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Channel Islands includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 29 March 2011 appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 24
