42 | DIRECTORS REPORT | GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Takeover Directive Agreements Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose whether there are any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Change of control provisions are included as standard in many types of commercial agreement, notably bank facility agreements and joint venture shareholder agreements, for the protection of both parties.
Such standard terms are included in Berkeleys bank facility agreement which contains provisions that give the banks certain rights upon a change of control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain circumstances, a change of control may give Berkeleys joint venture partner, Prudential Assurance Company Limited, the ability to exercise certain rights under the shareholder agreement in relation to its St Edward Homes joint venture.
In addition, the Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect upon change of control.
These do not entitle the participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than that created by the initial grant of the award.
The Company does not have any arrangements with any Director that provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The remaining information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive can be found within notes 5 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held at the Woodlands Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at 11.00am on 8 September 2010.
The Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a separate letter from the Group Chairman accompanying this report, includes a commentary on the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board R J Stearn Company Secretary 27 July 2010 BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010
