3i Infrastructure plc 46 46 Annual report and accounts 2010 Independent auditors report We have audited the consolidated financial statements the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company balance sheet, the Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows, the Significant accounting policies and Notes to the accounts 1 to 21.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Jersey Law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Performance highlights, Our business, A closer look at our business, the Chairmans statement, the Investment advisers review, the Review of investments, the Returns and Risk, Governance, the Investment policy, the Portfolio valuation methodology and Information for shareholders.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Groups financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Companys financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Geraint Davies For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Jersey 5 May 2010
