Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report 89 Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc We have audited the Group financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders Opinion on financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December by the Board on directors remuneration.
In our opinion the group financial statements: 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income Other matter give a true and fair view of the state of the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and We have reported separately on the parent Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated of its profit and cash flows for the year then company financial statements of Amlin plc for Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement ended: the year ended 31 December 2010 and on of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of the information in the Directors Remuneration Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 39. have been properly prepared in accordance Report that is described as having been audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: applied in their preparation is applicable law and and International Financial Reporting Standards have been prepared in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and for and on behalf of  LLP Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Respective responsibilities of directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and auditors Opinion on other matters prescribed by London the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Statement of 1 March 2011 Directors responsibilities set out on pp.
88, In our opinion: the directors are responsible for the preparation the information given in the Directors Report of the group financial statements and for being for the financial year for which the group satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our financial statements are prepared is consistent responsibility is to audit and express an opinion with the group financial statements: and on the group financial statements in accordance the information given in the Board Corporate with applicable law and International Standards Governance Statement set out on on Auditing UK and Ireland.
60-69 with respect to internal control require us to comply with the Auditing Practices and risk management systems and about Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
share capital structures is consistent with the This report, including the opinions, has been financial statements.
prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Matters on which we are required to 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and report by exception for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these We have nothing to report in respect of the opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any following: other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial we have not received all the information and statements explanations we require for our audit: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about a corporate governance statement has not the amounts and disclosures in the financial been prepared by the parent company.
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: from material misstatement, whether caused by the directors statement, set out on pp.
This includes an assessment of: in relation to going concern: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the part of the Corporate Governance to the groups circumstances and have been Statement relating to the companys consistently applied and adequately disclosed: compliance with the nine provisions the reasonableness of significant accounting of the June 2008 Combined Code estimates made by the directors: and the overall specified for our review: and presentation of the financial statements.
