352 Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the directors of Aviva plc on the consolidated Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV financial statements We have audited the consolidated MCEV financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Condensed Consolidated Income Statement MCEV basis, the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income MCEV basis, the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity MCEV basis, the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position MCEV basis, the Reconciliation of Shareholders Equity on IFRS and MCEV bases, the Reconciliation of IFRS Total Equity to MCEV Net Worth, the Group MCEV Analysis of Earnings and the related notes E1 to E19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the consolidated MCEV financial statements is the Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles issued in June 2008 by the CFO Forum as amended in October 2009 the MCEV Principles and the basis of preparation set out on pages 321 to 324.
We have reported separately on the statutory Group financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The information contained in the consolidated MCEV financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements prepared on an IFRS basis.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with our engagement letter dated 4 August 2010.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 351, the directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated MCEV financial statements in accordance with the MCEV Principles.
Our responsibility, as independent auditor, is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated MCEV financial statements, in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 4 August 2010 and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the consolidated MCEV financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated MCEV financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated MCEV financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the consolidated MCEV financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the consolidated MCEV financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the MCEV Principles and the basis of preparation set out on pages 321 to 324.
Ernst & Young LLP London 2 March 2011 1 The maintenance and integrity of Aviva plcs website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
