Report of the Independent Auditors to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of BlackRock World Mining the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2010, which comprise the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Group and Company Statements of Financial Position, Group and Company Cash Flow Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Statements and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting 2006 framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law In our opinion: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards to the parent company financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the been property prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Companies Act 2006.
2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the financial statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our opinion: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities branches not visited by us: or on page 29, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and the Companys financial statements and the part of the Directors fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accordance with applicable law and International Standards on accounting records and returns: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and we have not received all the information and explanations we disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable require for our audit.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently the Directors statement on page 20 in relation to going concern: applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the presentation of the financial statements.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
of the Groups net return for the year then ended: Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: London 24 February 2011 the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 30 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
