Independent Auditors Report Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the the Members of British Assets amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Trust plc sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We have audited the financial statements of British financial statements are free from material Assets Trust plc for the year ended 30 September misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
2010 which comprise the Income Statement, the This includes an assessment of: whether the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders accounting policies are appropriate to the Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement Companys circumstances and have been and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the framework that has been applied in their preparation reasonableness of significant accounting estimates is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting made by the Directors: and the overall presentation Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys Opinion on Financial Statements members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 In our opinion the financial statements: of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to.
give a true and fair view of the state of the the Companys members those matters we are Companys affairs as at 30 September 2010 and required to state to them in an auditors report and of its profit for the year then ended: for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted.
have been properly prepared in accordance with by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting to anyone other than the Company and the Practice: and Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 47, the Companies Act 2006 Directors are responsible for the preparation of the In our opinion: financial statements and for being satisfied that they.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to be audited has been properly prepared in audit the financial statements in accordance with accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report for us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the financial year for which the financial Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
48 British Assets Trust plc Matters on Which We are Required to Report by Under the Listing Rules we are Required to Exception Review: We have nothing to report in respect of the.
the Directors statement, set out on page 25, in following: relation to going concern: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement report to you if, in our opinion: relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, specified for our review.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Julian Young Senior Statutory Auditor not in agreement with the accounting records and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor returns: or London 15 November 2010. certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
