independent auditors report to tHe MeMbers oF bodyCote plC we have audited the group financial statements of bodycote opinion on other matter presCriBeD plc for the year ended 31 december 2010, which comprise the By the Companies aCt 2006 Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, in our opinion: the Consolidated Cash Flow statement, the Consolidated statement the part of the board report on remuneration to be audited of Comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of Changes has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies in equity, the statement of Group accounting policies and the act 2006: and related notes 1 to 30. the financial reporting framework that has the information given in the directors report for the financial been applied in their preparation is applicable law and international year for which the financial statements are prepared is Financial reporting standards iFrss as adopted by the european consistent with the group financial statements.
we have also audited the information in the board report on remuneration that is described as having been audited.
matters on whiCh we are requireD this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, to report By eXCeption in accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies act 2006. we have nothing to report in respect of the following: our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, companys members those matters we are required to state to them in our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone are not made: or other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
respeCtive responsiBilities of DireCtors anD auDitors as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, under the listing rules we are required to review: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial the directors statement contained within the Group review statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
in relation to going concern: our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and international the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating standards on auditing uK and ireland.
those standards require to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the us to comply with the auditing practices boards apbs ethical june 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and standards for auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration.
sCope of the auDit of the finanCial statements an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable we have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of bodycote plc for the year ended 31 december 2010. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
nicola mitchell senior statutory auditor opinion on finanCial statements for and on behalf of deloitte llp in our opinion the group financial statements: Chartered accountants and statutory auditors Manchester, uK give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as 24 February 2011 at 31 december 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with iFrss as adopted by the european union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias regulation.
46 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts
