Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc the information given in the Corporate Governance We have audited the financial statements of Edinburgh Statement set out on pages 26 to 29 with respect to Dragon Trust plc for the period ended 31 August 2010 set internal control and risk management systems in relation to out on pages 33 to 47.
The financial reporting framework financial reporting processes and about share capital that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law structures is consistent with the financial statements.
and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so you if, in our opinion: that we might state to the Company's members those adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' adequate for our audit have not been received from report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent branches not visited by us: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the financial statements and the part of the Directors' to anyone other than the Company and the Company's Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for with the accounting records and returns: or the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities we require for our audit: or Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared for the preparation of the financial statements and for being by the company.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards the Directors' statement, set out on page 28, in relation to on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to going concern: and comply with the Auditing Practices Board's APB's Ethical the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages Standards for Auditors.
26 to 29 relating to the company's compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified Scope of the audit of the financial statements for our review.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB's web-site at www.
Richard Hinton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants In our opinion the financial statements: Edinburgh give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 August 2010 and of its profit for the year 14 October 2010 then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and 32 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
