Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 2010 which comprise the Income Statement, the In our opinion: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet and the Cash Flow Statement and the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has audited has been properly prepared in accordance been applied in their preparation is applicable law and with the Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are This report is made solely to the Companys members, prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO undertaken so that we might state to the Companys REPORT BY EXCEPTION members those matters we are required to state to them We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company report to you if, in our opinion: and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS received from branches not visited by us: or AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 24, the Directors are Remuneration Report to be audited are not in responsible for the preparation of the financial agreement with the accounting records and returns: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance certain disclosures of Directors remuneration with applicable law and International Standards on specified by law are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical we have not received all the information and Standards for Auditors.
explanations we require for our audit.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: STATEMENTS A description of the scope of an audit of financial the Directors statement, set out on pages 27 and 28, statements is provided on the APBs website at in relation to going concern: www.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS relating to the Companys compliance with the nine In our opinion the financial statements: provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its certain elements of the report to the shareholders by net return for the year then ended: the Board on Directors remuneration.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Marcus Swales United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Senior Statutory Auditor Practice: and for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants have been prepared in accordance with the London requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
7 March 2011 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 33
