Independent auditors statement To the members of BP p. l. c. Opinion We have examined the summary financial statement for the year ended In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with 31 December 2010 set out on pages 1 to 32.
This statement is made the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section the Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken 31 December 2010 and complies with the applicable requirements so that we might state to the companys members those matters we of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations are required to state to them in an auditors statement and for no other made thereunder.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty over provisions and companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this statement, contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill or for the opinions we have formed.
Our report on the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2010 contained within BP Annual Report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and Form 20-F 2010 includes an emphasis of matter on the significant The directors are responsible for preparing BP Summary Review 2010 uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the In forming our opinion on the summary financial statement, consistency of the summary financial statement within BP Summary we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 2 Review 2010 with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors of the summary financial statement which summarise the disclosures Remuneration Report and the Directors Report, and its compliance with in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 concerning the provisions, future the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other and the regulations made thereunder.
contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
We also read the other information contained in BP Summary The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all Review 2010 and consider the implications for our report if we become obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many the summary financial statement.
Actual costs could ultimately be significantly higher or lower We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 than those recorded as the claims and settlement process progresses.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the consolidated Our opinion on the summary financial statement is not qualified in and parent company financial statements contained within BP Annual respect of these matters.
Report and Form 20-F 2010 describe the basis of our opinions on those financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Ernst & Young LLP Directors Report.
Statutory Auditor London 2 March 2011 Directors statement The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and on the consistency of the Directors Report with those financial statements.
Their report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report contained no statement under sections 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
