Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Fidelity Special Values PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED THE SHAREHOLDERS OF FIDELITY SPECIAL BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 VALUES PLC In our opinion: We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity Special Values PLC for the year ended 31 August 2010the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance audited has been properly prepared in accordance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders with the Companies Act 2006: Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
the information given in the Directors Report for the The financial reporting framework that has been applied financial year for which the financial statements are in their preparation is applicable law and United prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION This report is made solely to the Companys members, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to undertaken so that we might state to the Companys report to you if, in our opinion: members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To theadequate accounting records have not been kept, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or or returns adequate for our audit have not been assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company received from branches not visited by us: or and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the financial statements and the part of the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS returns: or AND AUDITOR certain disclosures of directors remuneration As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors specified by law are not made: or Responsibilities on page 27, the Directors are we have not received all the information and responsible for the preparation of the financial explanations we require for our audit.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Directors statement, on page 26 in relation Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing to going concern: and Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code STATEMENTS specified for our review.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Marcus Swales Senior Statutory Auditor OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP In our opinion the financial statements: Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys 5 November 2010 affairs as at 31 August 2010 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 35
