192 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Parent Company financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of British Opinion on other matters prescribed by the CompaniesAct2006 American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2010 In our opinion: which comprise the Balance sheet and the notes on the accounts.
the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Responsibility of Directors statement Matters on which we are required to report by exception set out on page 105, the Directors are responsible for the preparation We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply not been received from branches not visited by us: or with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only with the accounting records and returns: or for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter3 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We by law are not made: or do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for we have not received all the information and explanations any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is we require for our audit.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Scope of the audit of the financial statements British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2010.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of  LLP accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors presentation of the financial statements.
London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 23 February 2011 In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
