106 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of British American Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group balance is consistent with the Group financial statements.
sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the notes on the accounts Matters on which we are required to report by exception andthe Principal subsidiary undertakings and the Principal associate We have nothing to report in respect of the following: undertakings.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by As explained more fully in the Responsibility of Directors statement law are not made: or set out on page 105, the Directors are responsible for the preparation we have not received all the information and explanations of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they we require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the Directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing to going concern: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Other matter isshown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31December 2010 and on the information in the Remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of  LLP adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of London, United Kingdom thefinancial statements.
23 February 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
