90 90 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Independent Auditors Report.
to the members of Intermediate Capital Group PLC.
We have audited the financial statements of Intermediate Capital the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent IAS Regulation.
Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flow, the Group and Parent Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes the IASB 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied and as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Opinion on other matters prescribed by the state to the Companys members those matters we are required Companies Act 2006 to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
In our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors year for which the financial statements are prepared is As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities consistent with the financial statements.
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Matters on which we are required to report and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements by exception in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards you if, in our opinion: for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Scope of the audit of the financial statements received from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the Parent Company financial statements and the part of reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys law are not made: or circumstances and have been consistently applied and we have not received all the information and explanations adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant we require for our audit.
accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: presentation of the financial statements.
the Directors statement contained within the Corporate Opinion on financial statements Governance Statement in relation to going concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
31 March 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: David Rush Senior Statutory Auditor the Parent Company financial statements have been properly for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors European Union and as applied in accordance with the London, United Kingdom 4 June 2010 provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Accounts A St cco rate ug nitc r s eview 91 91 91 Accounts.
