International Public Partnerships Limited Independent Auditors Report to the Members of International Public Partnerships Limited We have audited the consolidated financial statements of International Public Partnerships Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 39.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
39 International Public Partnerships Limited Independent Auditors Report to the Members of International Public Partnerships Limited continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Richard Anthony Garrard FCA For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Guernsey Channel Islands 31 March 2011 40
