Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Matters on which we are required to report by exception BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been in our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Accounting Practice.
received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are not As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Responsibilities set out on page 43, the Directors are responsible certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements are not made: or and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our we have not received all the information and explanations we responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements require for our audit.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Other matter with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Mark L Smith Senior Statutory Auditor where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the financial statements East Midlands An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 25 May 2010 disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
82 82 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 83 83
