INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Jardine Matters on which we are required to report by exception Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2010 We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: in Shareholders Funds, the Accounting Policies and the related notes adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent a to i.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting received from branches not visited by us: or Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set agreement with the accounting records and returns: or out on page 36 and 37, the directors are responsible for the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being not made: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we statements in accordance with applicable law and International require for our audit.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Other matters comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 2010. the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any for and on behalf of  LLP other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our London prior consent in writing.
22nd March 2011 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Notes: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall since they were initially presented on the website.
presentation of the financial statements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Opinion on financial statements dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31st December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
106 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
