American pp33 37 American pp33 37 09 03 2011 15:57 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Independent Auditors Report to the members of JPMorgan of the Companies Act 2006.
American Investment Trust plc We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan American Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st December 2010 In our opinion: which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 23.
The Companies Act 2006: and financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the information given in the Directors Report for the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting financial year for which the accounts are prepared is Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Matters on which we are required to report by exception body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other you if, in our opinion: purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not adequate accounting records have not been kept, or accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit branches not visited by us: or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Report to be audited are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities accounting records and returns: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion law are not made: or on the accounts in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement contained within the Directors Scope of the audit of the accounts Report in relation to going concern: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to assurance that the accounts are free from material the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have on Directors remuneration.
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the accounts.
Opinion on accounts In our opinion the accounts: Stuart McLaren Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP affairs at 31st December 2010 and of its net return for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, year then ended: London, United Kingdom 9th March 2011 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
