Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Asian In our opinion: Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th September 2010 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Companies Act 2006: and Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the information given in the Directors Report for the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial year for which the financial statements are United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statement set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the preparation of the financial statements and for being you if, in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable adequate accounting records have not been kept, or law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing branches not visited by us: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with with the accounting records and returns: or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or law are not made: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it we have not received all the information and explanations may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in relation to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and going concern: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the J Je er re em my y J Je en ns se en n Senior Statutory Auditor reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London statements.
10th December 2010 Opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Notes: affairs as at 30th September 2010 and of its return and cash a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: flows for the year then ended: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of have been properly prepared in accordance with United these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the Companys website.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of the Companies Act 2006. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
32 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
