Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan In our opinion: Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc for the year ended the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be 30th June 2010 which comprise the Income Statement, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Companies Act 2006: and Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes to the accounts.
The financial reporting framework that has been the information given in the Directors Report for the applied in their preparation is applicable law and United financial year for which the financial statements are Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Statement set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for you if, in our opinion: the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is adequate accounting records have not been kept, or to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable returns adequate for our audit have not been received from law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
branches not visited by us: or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the financial statements and the part of the Directors Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and with the accounting records and returns: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no law are not made: or other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other we have not received all the information and explanations person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it we require for our audit.
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: writing.
the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to Scope of the audit of the financial statements going concern: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the J Je er re em my y J Je en ns se en n Senior Statutory Auditor reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by for and on behalf of  LLP the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London statements.
28th September 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: Notes: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the affairs as at 30th June 2010 and of its return and cash flows responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the auditors does not for the year then ended: involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with United accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in of the Companies Act 2006. other jurisdictions.
30 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
