Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Opinion on accounts Trust plc In our opinion the accounts: We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan European give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Fledgeling Investment Trust plc for the year ended affairs as at 31st March 2010 and of its net return and cash 31st March 2010 which comprise the Income Statement, flows for the year then ended: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes have been properly prepared in accordance with United to the accounts.
The financial reporting framework that has Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and been applied in their preparation is applicable law and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied audited has been properly prepared in accordance with that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to the Companies Act 2006: and audit the accounts in accordance with applicable law and the information given in the Directors Report for the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those financial year for which the accounts are prepared is standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices consistent with the accounts.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Matters on which we are required to report by exception only for the Companys members as a body in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following: with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other you if, in our opinion: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it adequate accounting records have not been kept, or may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent returns adequate for our audit have not been received in writing.
from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the accounts the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and accounting records and returns: or disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This by law are not made: or includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies we have not received all the information and are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have explanations we require for our audit.
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the accounts.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 Independent Auditors Report continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern: and the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
I Ia an n A Ar rm mf fiie elld d Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 27th May 2010 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
32 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
