34 Independent auditors report to the members of The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements of The Scope of the audit of the financial statements Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. for the year ended A description of the scope of an audit of financial 31 December 2010 which comprise the group and statements is provided on the APBs website at Corporations statements of the financial position, www.
the group income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the group and Corporations Opinion on financial statements statements of cash flows, the group and In our opinion: Corporations statements of changes in equity, and the financial statements give a true and fair view the related notes.
The financial reporting framework of the state of the groups and the Corporations that has been applied in their preparation is affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting groups profit for the year then ended: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, as regards the parent company financial the group financial statements have been properly statements, as applied in accordance with prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the European Union: This report is made solely to the companys the Corporations financial statements have been members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter3 properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit adopted by the European Union and as applied in work has been undertaken so that we might state accordance with the provisions of the Companies to the companys members those matters we are Act 2006: and required to state to them in an auditors report and the financial statements have been prepared in for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted accordance with the requirements of the by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group to anyone other than the company and the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors In our opinion: and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors the part of the directors remuneration report to be responsibilities, the directors are responsible for audited has been properly prepared in accordance the preparation of the financial statements and for with the Companies Act 2006: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the information given in the directors report for Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion the financial year for which the financial statements on the financial statements in accordance with are prepared is consistent with the financial applicable law and International Standards on statements: and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the information given in the corporate governance APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statement set out on pages 23 to 27 of the annual report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 35 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Corporation, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Corporations financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code, UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration.
Neil Fung-On senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London United Kingdom 28 February 2011 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
