28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Mercantile Investment Opinion on accounts Trust plc In our opinion the accounts: We have audited the accounts of The Mercantile give a true and fair view of the state of the Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st January Companys affairs as at 31st January 2010 and of 2010 which comprise the Income Statement, its net return and cash flows for the year then Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, ended: Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related have been properly prepared in accordance with notes to the accounts.
The financial reporting United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting framework that has been applied in their preparation Practice: and is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Practice.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies As explained more fully in the Directors Act 2006 Responsibilities Statement set out on page 27, the In our opinion: Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true be audited has been properly prepared in and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report for Those standards require us to comply with the the financial year for which the accounts are Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for prepared is consistent with the accounts.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report, including the opinion, has been prepared We have nothing to report in respect of the for and only for the Companys members as a body following: in accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume report to you if, in our opinion: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other adequate accounting records have not been kept, person to whom this report is shown or into whose or returns adequate for our audit have not been hands it may come save where expressly agreed by received from branches not visited by us: or our prior consent in writing.
the accounts and the part of the Directors Scope of the audit of the accounts Remuneration Report to be audited are not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the agreement with the accounting records and amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to returns: or give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free certain disclosures of directors remuneration from material misstatement, whether caused by specified by law are not made: or fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to we have not received all the information and the Companys circumstances and have been explanations we require for our audit.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the accounts.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going concern: and the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Ian Armfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 31st March 2010 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
