Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 123 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the 1 members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc We have audited the Company financial statements of Cable & Matters on which we are required to report by exception Wireless Communications Plc for the period ended 31 March 2010 We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters set out on pages 124 to 131.
The financial reporting framework where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and in our opinion: UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Practice as applied in accordance with the provisions of the or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Companies Act 2006. branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the accounting records and returns: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent law are not made: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to we have not received all the information and explanations we anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as require for our audit.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the period ended As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement 31 March 2010. set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Statutory Auditor Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law Chartered Accountants and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those 8 Salisbury Square standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards London APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
EC4Y 8BB Scope of the audit of the financial statements 26 May 2010 A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
uk apb scope UKP Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Company financial statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report annotated as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
1 formerly Cable & Wireless Communications Limited
