60 Independent auditors report We have audited the Group financial statements of Cable & Wireless Matters on which we are required to report by exception Communications Plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 set out on We have nothing to report in respect of the following: pages 61 to 122.
The financial reporting framework that has been Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, applied in their preparation is applicable law and International in our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in not made: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and other transactions is not disclosed: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them we have not received all the information and explanations we in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going have formed.
concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 43 to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 44 relating to the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
We are set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible for the preparation not required to consider whether the Boards statements on of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance financial statements in accordance with applicable law and procedures or its risk and control procedures.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Other matter APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope UKP for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants In our opinion the Group financial statements: 8 Salisbury Square London give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at EC4Y 8BB 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 26 May 2010 by the EU: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the part of the Directors remuneration report annotated as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
