Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 57 INDEpENDENT AuDITORS REpORT TO ThE 1 mEmBERS OF CABlE & WIRElESS WORlDWIDE plC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the year ended 31 March Act 2006 2010 set out on pages 58 to 104.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation n the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is applicable law and International Financial Reporting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Companies Act 2006: and n the information given in the Directors report for the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those consolidated financial statements.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report Matters on which we are required to report by exception and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We have nothing to report in respect of the following: law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the statement of Directors received from branches not visited by us: or responsibilities set out on page 56, the Directors are n certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial law are not made: or statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and n we have not received all the information and explanations fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated we require for our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices n the Directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation to Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
going concern: and n the part of the corporate governance statement on pages Scope of the audit of the financial statements 40 to 41 relating to the Companys compliance with the A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Other matter Opinion on financial statements We have reported separately on the Company financial In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: statements of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the period from incorporation on 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010. n give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: n have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor adopted by the EU: and for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor n have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Chartered Accountants of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 8 Salisbury Square Regulation.
London EC4Y 8BB 26 May 2010 1 Formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No.
