Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 39 in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
MATTHEW PERKINS Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 24 November 2010 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 35 Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate All of the non-executive directors are independent of governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and in June 2008, which is publicly available on their website at bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2010 the on these issues.
Christopher Newells appointment has been Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
extended for a further twelve months to enable an orderly handover of the Chairmanship of the Audit and Compliance Committee after the expected appointment of an appropriately Directors qualified person in the coming year.
The Board considers that Mr Newell remains independent.
Throughout the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, three executive and four non-executive directors.
Prior to 1 October 2008 the Board approved a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and agreed a process to identify All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable and authorise any conflicts which might arise.
At each meeting of range of experience.
In accordance with the Code, all directors the Board actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any have submitted themselves for re-election at least once in every director are reviewed.
With effect from the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2011, the UK Corporate Governance Code All directors have access to the advice and services of the replaces the Combined Code and recommends that all directors Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring should be subject to re-appointment annually.
Accordingly all of that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment the directors have submitted themselves for re-election at the and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The names of the directors as a whole.
in office at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out on pages 12 and 13.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by professional development opportunities as are identified as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Terence Eccles, who has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, these being: challenge.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Edward Tilly who chaired the Committee, budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on Terence Eccles, Christopher Newell and Alan Fletcher, all of financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and whom are independent non-executive directors, and the there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the During the year ended 30 September 2010 there were five executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
All meetings were objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, attended by Edward Tilly, Alan Fletcher and Robert Dench corporate governance policies and financial and and four meetings were attended by Terence Eccles and dividend policies.
Further information about the Remuneration Committee is The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on biographical details on page 12 and there have been no Directors Remuneration on pages 22 to 32. significant changes during the period to those commitments.
The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year consisted of Christopher Newell, who chaired the There were ten regular Board meetings during the year.
Robert Committee, Terence Eccles, Edward Tilly and Alan Fletcher.
Dench, Nigel Terrington, Nicholas Keen, John Heron and Alan The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have Fletcher attended all ten of the Board meetings during the year recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee ended 30 September 2010, Christopher Newell and Edward Tilly meets at least three times per year.
It monitors the integrity of attended nine meetings and Terence Eccles attended the Groups financial reporting, reviews the Groups internal seven meetings.
36 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
