FINANCIAL EEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY STATEMENTS INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 435 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO PRUDENTIAL PLC ON THE EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE EEV BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information Scope of the audit of the supplementary information the supplementary information of Prudential plc the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give pages 389 to 433.
The financial reporting framework that has reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is been applied in the preparation of the supplementary free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or information is the European Embedded Value Principles issued error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting in May 2004 by the European CFO Forum as supplemented policies are appropriate to Groups circumstances and have by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and the Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 395 to directors.
In view of the purpose for which the supplementary 400 and 425 to 430 respectively.
The supplementary information information has been prepared, however, we did not assess the should be read in conjunction with the Group financial overall presentation of the supplementary information which statements which are on pages 153 to 352. would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken Opinion on supplementary information so that we might state to the Company those matters we have In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information of been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 has been To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
out on pages 395 to 400 and 425 to 430 respectively.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 434, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the G BAINBRIDGE EEV Principles.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF KPMG AUDIT PLC Chartered Accountants Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the London supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our 8 March 2011 engagement and having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
436 Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 437 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 438 Risk factors 443 Shareholder information 445 How to contact us
