388 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PRUDENTIAL PLC We have audited the financial statements of Prudential Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages Act 2006 153 to 352 and 375 to 386.
The financial reporting framework In our opinion: that has been applied in the preparation of the group the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited financial statements is applicable law and International has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Act 2006: and EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been the information given in the Directors Report for the financial applied in the preparation of the parent company year for which the financial statements are prepared is financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting consistent with the financial statements.
Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to the Companys members those matters we are required to state in our opinion: to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the received from branches not visited by us: or Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the parent company financial statements and the part of the or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities are not made: or Statement set out on page 387, the directors are responsible for we have not received all the information and explanations we the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied require for our audit.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the directors statement, set out on page 121, in relation to going Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement set out in the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Governance report relating to the Companys compliance with A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope for our review: and private.
cfm certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at G BAINBRIDGE 31 December 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants the parent company financial statements have been properly London prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 8 March 2011 Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
