Business Review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 132 We have audited the financial statements of The Capita Group Plc for the year ended Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 31 December 2010 set out on pages 92 to 143.
The financial reporting framework that In our opinion: Independent has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Auditors report the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
to the members of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 64 with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been to 73 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to The Capita Group Plc undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Matters on which we are required to report by exception than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 78. adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to records and returns: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs web-site at www.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Opinion on financial statements the Directors statement, set out on pages 75 and 76, in relation to going concern: In our opinion: the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 64 to 73 relating to the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the Groups profit for specified for our review: and the year then ended: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with remuneration.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Oliver Tant Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 23 February 2011
