FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RSA Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which In our opinion: comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of financial position, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the consolidated statement of cashflows and the related notes The information given in the Directors report for the financial year on pages 78 to 137.
The financial reporting framework that has for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International the Group financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration Matters on which we are required to report by exception report that is described as having been audited.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. if, in our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them The part of the Directors remuneration report described in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent as having been audited is not in agreement with the accounting permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone records and returns or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by law are not made or We have not received all the information and explanations Respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditor we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the The Directors statement contained within the Directors consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and report in relation to going concern International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards The part of the corporate governance statement relating require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Standards for Auditors.
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Scope of the audit of the financial statements on Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Other matters the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances 31 December 2010. and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as 23 February 2011 at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 73
