76 Independent Auditors report to the members of Schroders plc We have audited the group financial statements of Schroders plc for Opinion on other matter prescribed by the the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the consolidated Companies Act 2006 income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive In our opinion: income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement The information given in the Directors report for the financial year of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been with the Group financial statements.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Matters on which we are required to report by exception EuropeanUnion.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, if, inour opinion: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and are not made: or fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We have not received all the information and explanations we International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The Directors statement, in the Directors report, in relation to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for going concern: and the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Combined Code specified for our review: and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the parent company financial disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements of Schroders plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 assurance that the financial statements are free from material and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes as having been audited.
anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Richard Keers Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting for and on behalf of  LLP estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
London Opinion on financial statements 9 March 2011 In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year thenended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
