Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Scottish Opinion on other matters prescribed Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 October 2010 by the Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, In our opinion: the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders audited has been properly prepared in accordance Funds, and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting with the Companies Act 2006: and framework that has been applied in their preparation is the information given in the Directors Report for the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial year for which the financial statements are United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, Matters on which we are required as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the to report by exception Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We have nothing to report in respect of the following: so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by to you if, in our opinion: law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns than the company and the companys members as a body, adequate for our audit have not been received from for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we branches not visited by us: or have formed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation by law are not made: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the we require for our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the directors statement contained within the directors Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Scope of the audit of the financial statements to the companys compliance with the nine provisions An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances David Claxton ACA Senior Statutory Auditor and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Edinburgh, UK financial statements.
16 December 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 October 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 41
