INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of Scottish Mortgage In our opinion: Investment Trust PLC for the period ended 31 March 2010 set out on the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has pages 32 to 49.
The financial reporting framework that has been been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting 2006: and Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report by exception in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the following: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a in our opinion: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set the financial statements and the part of the Directors out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the accounting records and returns: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern: and Opinion on financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to In our opinion the financial statements: the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
at 31 March 2010 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Gareth Horner Accepted Accounting Practice: and Senior Statutory Auditor have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the for and on behalf of Companies Act 2006.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Edinburgh 17 May 2010 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31
