Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of St. Jamess Place plc the Company on the Supplementary Information on European Embedded Value Basis We have audited the Supplementary Information on the European Embedded Value Basis for the year ended 31 December 2010 that comprise the Consolidated Statement of Income European Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity European Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position European Embedded Value and the related notes the Supplementary Information, which have been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation and which should be read in conjunction with the Groups financial statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Supplementary Information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
Our responsibility, as set out in our letter of engagement agreed with you dated 4 January 2011, is to audit and express an opinion on the Supplementary Information in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 4 January 2011 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Supplementary Information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Supplementary Information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Supplementary Information.
OPINION ON THE SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION In our opinion, the Supplementary Information for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with the European Embedded Value basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
 LLP Chartered Accountants Bristol 22 February 2011 Notes: a The Supplementary Information is published on the website of St. Jamess Place plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the audit work does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Supplementary Information since it was initially presented on the website.
b Practices in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Supplementary Information may differ from practices in other jurisdictions.
St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
