Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc We have audited the group financial statements of St. Jamess the information given in the Corporate Governance Report Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise with respect to internal control and risk management systems the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, and about share capital structures is consistent with the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework Matters on which we are Required to Report by that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Exception International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the law are not made: or preparation of the group financial statements and for being we have not received all the information and explanations we satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is require for our audit: or to audit and express an opinion on the group financial a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by statements in accordance with applicable law and International the parent company.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement, set out in the Directors Report, in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and relation to going concern: only for the companys members as a body in accordance with the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save on directors remuneration.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Matter Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been for and on behalf of  LLP consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Bristol the overall presentation of the financial statements.
22 February 2011 Opinion on Financial Statements Notes: In our opinion the group financial statements: a The financial statements are published on the website of St. Jamess give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Place plc, www.
The maintenance and integrity of the St. 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the year then ended: work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility adopted by the European Union: and for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of since they were initially presented on the website.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the other jurisdictions.
Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69
