Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon Matters on which we are required to report by exception plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated in our opinion: Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards are not made: or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in require for our audit.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the directors statement, contained within the Business Review, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility in relation to going concern: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the have formed.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speci ed for our review: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group directors remuneration.
Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Other matter on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable Manbhinder Rana Senior Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Deloitte LLP the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting London estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of United Kingdom the financial statements.
8 March 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
41 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW
