Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which In our opinion: comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Act 2006: and Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in year for which the Parent Company Financial Statements are accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. prepared is consistent with the Parent Company Financial Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Matters on which we are required to report by exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we our opinion: have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, received from branches not visited by us: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satis ed that they the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and require for our audit.
disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2010. the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Manbhinder Rana Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs London as at 31 December 2010: United Kingdom 8 March 2011 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
85 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT & BUSINESS REVIEW
