Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Centrica plc Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Independent Auditors Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Report to the members financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
of Centrica plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc for Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive the Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of concern: Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Combined Code specified for our review: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Respective responsibilities of Directors directors remuneration.
and auditors Other matter As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible for the preparation We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with described as having been audited.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
John Maitland We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Senior Statutory Auditor for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is for and on behalf of  LLP shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
London Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements 24 February 2011 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
