50 Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2010 which In our opinion the Group financial statements: comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement as at 31 October 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Notes to the Consolidated have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Cash Flow Statement, and the related Notes 1 to 36.
The financial as adopted by the European Union: and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matters prescribed This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. by the Companies Act 2006 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Companys members those matters we are required to state to the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest is consistent with the Group financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Matters on which we are required to report as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions by exception we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group are not made: or financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true we have not received all the information and explanations we and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical the directors statement contained within the Statement Standards for Auditors.
on Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: and the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matters misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the parent company financial assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 31 October 2010 and on the information in the Directors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Mark Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading, United Kingdom 18 January 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
