Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the parent Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: company balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United not visited by us: or Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities set certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are out on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the not made: or parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they we have not received all the information and explanations we require give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an for our audit.
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Other matter Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do for and on behalf of  LLP not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or London into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 2 March 2011 consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
100 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group financial statements
