Parent Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 In our opinion: which comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, the accounting t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year policies and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable the Parent Company financial statements.
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we from branches not visited by us: or have formed.
t the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors t certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or and auditors t we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, require for our audit.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Other matters fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010. us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material London, United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 24 November 2010 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: t give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2010: t have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 121
