Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 which comprise In our opinion: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of 2006: and changes in equity, the accounting policies and the related notes t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial the Group financial statements.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to in our opinion: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have formed.
t certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group t the directors statement contained within the Business Review in financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and relation to going concern: and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Combined Code specified for our review.
with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended statements 30 September 2010.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
London, United Kingdom 24 November 2010 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: t give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: t have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
