Independent Auditors Report to the members of Afren plc maTTERs On which wE aRE REquiREd TO REPORT By ExcEPTiOn We have audited the financial statements of Afren plc for the year ended 31December 2010 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inouropinion: Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility we have not received all the information and explanations we require for ouraudit.
to anyone other than the company and the Companys members as a body, forour audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: REsPEcTivE REsPOnsiBiliTiEs Of diREcTORs and audiTOR the Directors statement contained within the Directors Report in relation As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being togoing concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specifiedfor ourreview: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
scOPE Of ThE audiT Of ThE financial sTaTEmEnTs An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Bevan whitehead Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, UK appropriate tothe Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness 29 March 2011 of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial andnon-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implicationsfor ourreport.
OPiniOn On financial sTaTEmEnTs In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSas adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article4of the IAS Regulation.
OPiniOn On OThER maTTERs PREscRiBEd By ThE cOmPaniEs acT2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financialstatements.
84 84 A Afr fre en n plc plc A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0
