Daily Mail anD General TrusT plc annual reporT 2010 inDepenDenT auDiTors reporT to the Members of Daily Mail and General Trust plc we have audited the parent company adequately disclosed: the certain disclosures of directors financial statements of Daily Mail and reasonableness of significant remuneration specified by law are General Trust plc for the year ended 3rd accounting estimates made by the not made: or october, 2010 which comprise the Directors: and the overall presentation we have not received all the Balance sheet, and the related notes 1 of the financial statements.
information and explanations we to 17.
The financial reporting framework require for our audit.
that has been applied in their opinion on Financial sTaTeMenTs preparation is applicable law and in our opinion the parent company oTher MaTTer united Kingdom accounting standards financial statements: we have reported separately on the united Kingdom Generally accepted give a true and fair view of the state Group financial statements of Daily Mail accounting practice.
of the parent companys affairs as at and General Trust plc for the year This report is made solely to the 3rd october, 2010: ended 3rd october, 2010. companys members, as a body, in have been properly prepared in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 accordance with united Kingdom of the companies act 2006. our audit Generally accepted accounting work has been undertaken so that we practice: and might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state have been prepared in accordance to them in an auditors report and for no with the requirements of the william Touche other purpose.
To the fullest extent companies act 2006. senior statutory auditor permitted by law, we do not accept or for and on behalf of Deloitte llp assume responsibility to anyone other opinion on oTher MaTTers chartered accountants and than the company and the companys prescriBeD By The coMpanies statutory auditors members as a body, for our audit work, acT 2006 for this report, or for the opinions we london, united Kingdom in our opinion: have formed.
3rd December, 2010 the part of the Directors respecTive responsiBiliTies oF remuneration report to be audited DirecTors anD auDiTors has been properly prepared in accordance with the companies as explained more fully in the Directors act 2006: and responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the information given in the the parent company financial Directors report for the financial statements and for being satisfied that year for which the financial they give a true and fair view.
our statements are prepared is consistent responsibility is to audit the parent with the parent company financial company financial statements in statements.
accordance with applicable law and international standards on auditing uK MaTTers on which we are and ireland.
Those standards require us requireD To reporT By excepTion to comply with the auditing practices we have nothing to report in respect of Boards apBs ethical standards for the following matters where the auditors.
companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: scope oF The auDiT oF The adequate accounting records have Financial sTaTeMenTs not been kept by the parent an audit involves obtaining evidence company, or returns adequate for about the amounts and disclosures in our audit have not been received the financial statements sufficient to from branches not visited by us: or give reasonable assurance that the the parent company financial financial statements are free from statements and the part of the material misstatement, whether caused Directors remuneration report to by fraud or error.
This includes an be audited are not in agreement assessment of: whether the accounting with the accounting records and policies are appropriate to the parent returns: or companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and 152
