Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report independent auditors report to the members of daily mail and general trust plc We have audited the group financial circumstances and have been other matter statements of daily mail and general consistently applied and adequately We have reported separately on the trust plc for the year ended 3rd october, disclosed: the reasonableness of parent Company financial statements 2010 which comprise the group income significant accounting estimates made of daily mail and general trust plc for statement, the group statement of by the directors: and the overall the year ended 3rd october, 2010 and Comprehensive income, the group presentation of the financial statements.
on the information in the directors statement of Changes in equity, the remuneration report that is described opinion on finanCial statements group balance sheet, the group Cash as having been audited.
flow statement, and the related notes in our opinion the group financial 1 to 43. the financial reporting statements: framework that has been applied in give a true and fair view of the their preparation is applicable law state of the groups affairs as at and international financial reporting 3rd october, 2010 and of its profit for standards ifrss as adopted by the the year then ended: european union.
have been properly prepared in this report is made solely to the William touche accordance with ifrss as adopted Companys members, as a body, in senior statutory auditor by the european union: and accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 for and on behalf of deloitte llp of the Companies act 2006. our audit have been prepared in accordance Chartered accountants and statutory work has been undertaken so that we with the requirements of the auditors might state to the Companys members Companies act 2006 and article 4 of london, united Kingdom those matters we are required to state the ias regulation.
to them in an auditors report and for no 3rd december, 2010 other purpose.
to the fullest extent opinion on other matter permitted by law, we do not accept or presCribed by the Companies assume responsibility to anyone other aCt 2006 than the Company and the Companys in our opinion the information given in members as a body, for our audit work, the directors report for the financial for this report, or for the opinions we year for which the financial statements have formed.
are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
respeCtive responsibilities of direCtors and auditors matters on WhiCh We are as explained more fully in the directors reQuired to report by exCeption responsibilities statement, the directors We have nothing to report in respect of are responsible for the preparation of the following: the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and under the Companies act 2006 we are fair view.
our responsibility is to audit required to report to you if, in our the group financial statements in opinion: accordance with applicable law and certain disclosures of directors international standards on auditing uK remuneration specified by law are and ireland.
those standards require us not made: or to comply with the auditing practices we have not received all the boards apbs ethical standards for information and explanations we auditors.
sCope of the audit of the under the listing rules we are required finanCial statements to review: an audit involves obtaining evidence the directors statement contained about the amounts and disclosures in within the financial and treasury the financial statements sufficient to review in relation to going concern: give reasonable assurance that the and financial statements are free from the part of the Corporate material misstatement, whether caused governance statement relating to by fraud or error.
this includes an the Companys compliance with the assessment of: whether the accounting nine provisions of the June 2008 policies are appropriate to the groups Combined Code specified for our review.
