SECTION 4 Financial statements and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Kesa opinion on other matters prescribed by the companies Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2010 which comprise the act2006 Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting In our opinion: framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally l the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Accepted Accounting Practice.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors l the information given in the Directors report for the financial year As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set for which the parent company financial statements are prepared out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent matters on which we are required to report by exception company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
l adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of l the parent company financial statements and the part of the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any with the accounting records and returns: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or l certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our are not made: or prior consent in writing.
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Kesa assurance that the financial statements are free from material Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2010. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied for and on behalf of  LLP and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the London financial statements.
23 June 2010 opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: l give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2010: l have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
100 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
