Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report We have audited the consolidated and the Company financial IFRSs issued by the IASB statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended As explained in note 1.1 to the Group financial statements, the 1 May 2010 which comprise the consolidated income statement, Group and Company, in addition to complying with its legal the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, expense, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting the consolidated and Company cash flow statements, the Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the financial statements consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity and comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the related notes 1 to 34 and C1 to C18.
The financial reporting Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable In our opinion: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a consistent with the financial statements: and body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies state to the Companys members those matters we are required Act 2006. to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are required to report by exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to report, or for the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation received from branches visited by us: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give the Company financial statements and the part of the a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in statements in accordance with applicable law and International agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs law are not made: and Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the directors statement contained within the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Report and Business Review in relation to going concern: and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys 2006 Combined Code specified for our review.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinions Financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: Nicola Mitchell FCA Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Companys affairs as at 1 May 2010 and of the Groups profit Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors for the 52 weeks then ended: London, United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and 24 June 2010 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 63
