inDePenDent auDitors rePort on tHe annual rePort anD accounts to tHe members of enQuest Plc ReGiSteReD nuMbeR: 07140891 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which act 2006 comprise the Group statement of comprehensive income, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Group balance sheet, the Group statement of changes in Report for the financial year for which the Group financial equity, the Group statement of cash flow and the related statements are prepared is consistent with the notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has consolidated financial statements.
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Matters on which we are required to report by exception adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report work has been undertaken so that we might state to the to you if, in our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified state to them in an auditors report and for no other by law are not made: or purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not we have not received all the information and accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the explanations we require for our audit.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern: respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating As explained more fully in the statement of Directors to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions responsibilities in respect of the Group financial statements of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible for the review: and preparation of the consolidated financial statements and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Board on Directors remuneration.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Other matter applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK We have reported separately on the Parent Company and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the financial statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Scope of the audit of the financial statements been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and ernst & Young llP adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor overall presentation of the financial statements.
London 4 April 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
