68 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the members ofG4Splc We have audited the fi financial statements of G4S plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 69 to 124.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group fi financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company fi financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UKGenerally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of fi financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on fi financial statements In our opinion: k the fi financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the groups profi t for the year then ended: k the group fi financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: k the parent company fi financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: k the fi financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group fi financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: k the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and k the information given in the Directors Report for the fi financial year for which the fi financial statements are prepared is consistent with the fi financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: k adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or k the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or k certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law are not made: or k we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: k the directors statement, set out on page 67, in relation to going concern: and k the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 61 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specifi ed for our review: and k certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
A G Cates Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 14 March 2011
