The GAME Group plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Independent Auditors Report to the members of the GAME Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Scope of the audit of the financial statements The GAME Group plc for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 31 January 2010 which comprise the amounts and disclosures in the financial consolidated statement of comprehensive statements sufficient to give reasonable income, the consolidated balance sheet, the assurance that the financial statements are free consolidated statement of changes in equity, from material misstatement, whether caused by the consolidated statement of cash flows, the fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: parent company balance sheet and the whether the accounting policies are related notes.
The financial reporting framework appropriate to the Groups and the parent that has been applied in the preparation of the companys circumstances and have been Group financial statements is applicable law consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and International Financial Reporting Standards the reasonableness of significant accounting IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The estimates made by the Directors: and the financial reporting framework that has been overall presentation of the financial statements.
applied in preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and Opinion on financial statements United Kingdom Accounting Standards United In our opinion: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the financial statements give a true and fair Practice.
view of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 January This report is made solely to the Companys 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year members, as a body, in accordance with then ended: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the Group financial statements have been 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs that we might state to the Companys members as adopted by the European Union: those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the parent company financial statements To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not have been properly prepared in accordance accept or assume responsibility to anyone other with United Kingdom Generally Accepted than the Company and the Companys Accounting Practice: and members as a body, for our audit work, for this the financial statements have been prepared report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Respective responsibilities of Directors Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS and auditors Regulation.
As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Directors are Opinion on other matters prescribed by the responsible for the preparation of the financial Companies Act 2006 statements and for being satisfied that they give In our opinion: a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with the part of the directors remuneration report applicable law and International Standards on to be audited has been properly prepared in Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards accordance with the Companies Act 2006: require us to comply with the Auditing Practices and Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our results The GAME Group plc 73 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Mr David Eagle senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London United Kingdom 21 April 2010 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
