1M9 INDepeNDeNT aUDITorS reporT To THe MeMBerS oF GKN pLC We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 31 December 2M1M which comprise the Balance Sheet In our opinion: and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been n the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies act accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally accepted 2MM6: and accounting practice.
n the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Company financial statements are prepared is Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors consistent with the Company financial statements.
as explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Matters on which we are required to report by exception true and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable Companies act 2MM6 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: law and International Standards on auditing UK and Ireland.
Those n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, standards require us to comply with the auditing practices Boards or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from ethical Standards for auditors.
branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for n the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of part remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 16 of the Companies act 2MM6 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in accounting records and returns: or giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other n certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into not made: or whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
n we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Other matter in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether for the year ended 31 December 2M1M.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Company financial statements: n give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as Roy Hodson at 31 December 2M1M: Senior Statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLp n have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Chartered accountants and Statutory auditors Generally accepted accounting practice: and Birmingham n have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 28 February 2M11 Companies act 2MM6.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
