Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc We have audited the accounts of Company, or returns adequate Opinion on accounts Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended for our audit have not been In our opinion: 1 January 2011 set out on pages received from branches not 35 to 71.
The financial reporting the accounts give a true and fair visited by us: or framework that has been applied in view of the state of the Groups - the Parent Company accounts their preparation is applicable law and of the Parent Companys and the part of the Directors and International Financial Reporting affairs as at 1 January 2011 and of Remuneration Report to be Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Groups profit for the year then audited are not in agreement the EU and, as regards the Parent ended: with the accounting records and Company accounts, as applied in the Group accounts have been returns: or accordance with the provisions of properly prepared in accordance - certain disclosures of directors the Companies Act 2006. with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: remuneration specified by law This report is made solely to the the Parent Company accounts are not made: or Companys members, as a body, in have been properly prepared - we have not received all the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part in accordance with IFRSs as information and explanations we 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our adopted by the EU and as applied require for our audit.
audit work has been undertaken in accordance with the provisions so that we might state to the Under the Listing Rules we are of the Companies Act 2006: and Companys members those matters required to review: the accounts have been we are required to state to them - the directors statement, set out prepared in accordance with the in an auditors report and for no on page 32, in relation to going requirements of the Companies other purpose.
To the fullest extent concern: and Act 2006 and, as regards the permitted by law, we do not accept Group accounts, Article 4 of the or assume responsibility to anyone - the part of the Corporate IAS Regulation.
other than the Company and the Governance Statement on page Companys members, as a body, 20 relating to the Companys for our audit work, for this report, or compliance with the nine Opinion on other matters for the opinions we have formed.
provisions of the June 2008 prescribed by the Combined Code specified for our Companies Act 2006 review: and Respective responsibilities - certain elements of the report to of directors and auditor In our opinion: shareholders by the Board on As explained more fully in the the part of the Directors directors remuneration.
Directors Responsibilities Statement Remuneration Report to be set out on page 32, the directors are audited has been properly Nick Plumb responsible for the preparation of the prepared in accordance with the Senior Statutory Auditor accounts and for being satisfied that Companies Act 2006: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit they give a true and fair view.
Our the information given in the Plc, Statutory Auditor responsibility is to audit, and express directors report for the financial Chartered Accountants an opinion on, the accounts in year for which the accounts are Quayside House accordance with applicable law and prepared is consistent with the 110 Quayside International Standards on Auditing accounts.
Newcastle upon Tyne UK and Ireland.
Those standards NE1 3DX require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Matters on which we 16 March 2011 Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are required to report by exception Scope of the audit of We have nothing to report in respect the accounts of the following: A description of the scope of an Under the Companies Act 2006 audit of accounts is provided on the we are required to report to you if, APBs web-site at www.
uk in our opinion: apb scope private.
- adequate accounting records 33 have not been kept by the Parent 34
