Halfords Group plc Online version 89 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com financials Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Halfords Group plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception for the period ended 2 April 2010 set out on pages 90 to 134.
The We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the with the accounting records and returns: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent not made: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for we have not received all the information and explanations we require our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
for our audit: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the Company.
set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in the Directors statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing concern: and UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 66 to 70 Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
G Watts Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor In our opinion: Chartered Accountants One Snowhill the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Snow Hill Queensway Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 2 April 2010 and Birmingham of the Groups profit for the period then ended: B4 6GH the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 10 June 2010 accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 66 to 70 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
