DiRectoRs RepoRt Business Review DiRectoRs RepoRt GoveRnance RemuneRation RepoRt GoveRnance Financial statements Financial statements INdEpENdENT AUdITORS REpORT ON ThE CONSOlIdATEd FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of hays plc Opinion on financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Hays plc In our opinion the Group financial statements: for the year ended 30 June 2010 which comprises the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement as at 30 June 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial adopted by the European Union: and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might is consistent with the Group financial statements.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of the following: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this in our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Respective responsibilities of directors and Auditors are not made: or As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement on page 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of we have not received all the information and explanations the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the directors statement contained within the Directors Report accordance with applicable law and International Standards on in relation to going concern: and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the for Auditors.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the parent Company financial reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free statements of Hays plc for the year ended 30 June 2010 and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
on the information in the directors Remuneration Report that This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies is described as having been audited.
are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of deloitte llp Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 1 September 2010 Hays plc annual RepoRt & Financial statements 2010 67
