Financial Statements 2010 heritage oil plc 07 independent auditors report to the members of heritage oil plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Heritage Oil Plc for the Emphasis of matter uncertain outcome of tax dispute year ended 31 December 2010, which comprise the Consolidated Income In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 6 to the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group financial statements concerning the dispute as to whether or not Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes on pages tax is payable on the disposal of the Groups interest in Uganda.
In this 8 to 35 within this Financial Statements Report.
The financial reporting respect, based on advice received, the Directors believe that the amounts framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and on deposit $121,477,000 and held in escrow $283,603,000 shown in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
the consolidated balance sheet will be recovered.
However, the ultimate outcome of the matter is uncertain and it may be some considerable time In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have before the issue is resolved.
engaged us to audit the information in the Directors Remuneration Report within the separate Corporate Governance Report that is Opinion on other matters under the terms of our engagement described as having been audited, which the Directors have decided to In our opinion: prepare in addition to that required to be prepared as if the Company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report within the separate Companies Act 2006 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Corporate Governance Report which we were engaged to audit has been Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
410. properly prepared in accordance with schedule 8 to the Companies Act 2006 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, in the Company.
respect of the separate opinion in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report and reporting as if the Company were required to comply with the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Listings Rules applicable to companies incorporated in the UK, on terms We have nothing to report in respect of the following: that have been agreed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the terms of our engagement state to them in an auditors report and, in respect of the separate opinion we are required to report to you, if, in our opinion: in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report and reporting as if the Company were required to comply with the Listing Rules applicable to proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: or companies incorporated in the UK, those matters that we have agreed to proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from state to them in our report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent branches not visited by us: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other the Companys accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit Report within the separate Corporate Governance Report which we were work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
engaged to audit are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we require for As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out our audit.
on page 6 of this Financial Statements Report, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Group financial statements which give a true and fair Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the separate on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the engaged us to review certain other disclosures as if the Company were financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused required to comply with the Listings Rules applicable to companies by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting incorporated in the UK.
Under the terms of our engagement we are required policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been to review: consistently applied and adequately disclosed: and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall the Directors statement, set out on page 9 of the separate Corporate presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Governance Report, in relation to going concern: and financial and non-financial information in the Companys 2010 Annual certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Report and Accounts which comprises four documents: Annual Review, Directors Remuneration.
Corporate Governance Report, Corporate Social Responsibility Report and Financial Statements Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Jimmy Daboo audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor 18 April 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010, and its profit for the year ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
