69 GroUp inDepenDent aUDitors report We have audited the Group financial statements of opinion on Financial statements Homeserve plc for the year ended 31 march 2010 in our opinion the Group financial statements: which comprise the Group income statement, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Groups affairs as at 31 march 2010 and of its Group balance sheet, the Group statement of profit for the year then ended: changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement have been properly prepared in accordance and the related notes 1 to 42. the financial with iFrss as adopted by the european Union: reporting framework that has been applied in their and preparation is applicable law and iFrss as adopted have been prepared in accordance with the by the european Union.
requirements of the companies act 2006 and article 4 of the ias regulation.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 opinion on otHer matter prescribeD by tHe of part 16 of the companies act 2006. our audit companies act 2006 work has been undertaken so that we might state in our opinion the information given in the to the companys members those matters we are Directors report for the financial year for which the required to state to them in an auditors report and financial statements are prepared is consistent for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent with the Group financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume matters on WHicH We are reqUireD to report responsibility to anyone other than the company by exception and the companys members as a body, for our We have nothing to report in respect of the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we following: have formed.
Under the companies act 2006 we are required to respective responsibilities oF Directors report to you if, in our opinion: anD aUDitors certain disclosures of Directors remuneration as explained more fully in the Directors specified by law are not made: or responsibilities statement, the Directors are we have not received all the information and responsible for the preparation of the Group explanations we require for our audit.
financial statements and for being satisfied that Under the listing rules we are required to review: they give a true and fair view.
our responsibility is the Directors statement contained within the to audit the Group financial statements in corporate Governance statement in relation accordance with applicable law and international to going concern: and standards on auditing UK and ireland.
those the part of the corporate Governance standards require us to comply with the auditing statement relating to the companys practices boards apbs ethical standards for compliance with the nine provisions of the auditors.
2006 combined code specified for our review.
scope oF tHe aUDit oF tHe Financial otHer matter statements We have reported separately on the parent an audit involves obtaining evidence about the company financial statements of Homeserve plc amounts and disclosures in the financial for the year ended 31 march 2010 and on the statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance information in the Directors remuneration report that the financial statements are free from material that is described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
this includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups christopher robertson circumstances and have been consistently applied senior statutory auditor and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP significant accounting estimates made by the chartered accountants and statutory auditors Directors: and the overall presentation of the birmingham financial statements.
