Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Imperial Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Report for the financial year for which the Group financial Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement statements are prepared is consistent with the Group of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow financial statements.
Statement, the Accounting Policies and related notes.
In our opinion the information given in the Corporate The financial reporting framework that has been applied Governance Report set out with respect to internal control in their preparation is applicable law and International and risk management systems and about share capital Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors by Exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility to you if, in our opinion: is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK by law are not made: or and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in a corporate governance statement has not been accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies prepared by the parent company.
Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report the Directors statement in the Corporate Governance is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Report, in relation to going concern: and expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Other Matter give reasonable assurance that the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company are free from material misstatement, whether caused by financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether year ended 30 September 2010 and on the information in the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as circumstances and have been consistently applied and having been audited.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: David Charles Senior Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs for and on behalf of  LLP as at 30 September 2010 and of its profit and cash flows Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors for the year then ended: Bristol have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 2 November 2010 as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
