Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the Group financial statements the Opinion on financial statements financial statements of Informa plc for the year ended In our opinion the financial statements: 31December 2010 which comprise the Consolidated Income r give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the Groups profit Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 r have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been as adopted by the European Union: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as r have been properly prepared in accordance with the adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Matters on which we are required to report by exception a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report to you if, in our opinion: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility r proper accounting records have not been kept by the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys parent Company, or proper returns adequate for our members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, audit have not been received from branches not visited or for the opinions we have formed.
by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors r the financial statements are not in agreement with the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors accounting records and returns: or Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for r we have not received all the information and the preparation of the financial statements and for explanations we require for our audit.
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those r the directors statement, contained within the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Corporate Governance Statement, in relation to going Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements r the part of the Corporate Governance Statement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts relating to the Companys compliance with the nine and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified give reasonable assurance that the financial statements for our review: and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether r certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the Board on directors remuneration.
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Ian Waller overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors London, UK 22 February 2011 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 51 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
