114 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2010 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. with the parent company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest by exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, we have formed.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and auditor received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the parent company financial statements and the part of the set out on page 113, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that the accounting records and returns: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance are not made: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and we have not received all the information and explanations we Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing require for our audit.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 31 December 2010. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Alison Baker Senior statutory auditor the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant London accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall 14 February 2011 presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
