THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Statements of Directors responsibilities and Independent auditors report 63 Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of InterContinental Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared the Group statement of financial position, the Group statement of is consistent with the Group financial statements.
cash flows, accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting by exception Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. in our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest are not made: or extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility we have not received all the information and explanations we to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as require for our audit.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the Directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 As explained more fully in the Statements of Directors Combined Code specified for our review: and responsibilities set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Directors remuneration.
audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Other matters accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have reported separately on the parent company financial with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended for Auditors.
31 December 2010 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Alison Baker Senior statutory auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor assurance that the financial statements are free from material London misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 14 February 2011 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
