Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 OO We have audited the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc Have been prepared in accordance with the for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 consolidated income statement, the consolidated of the IAS Regulation.
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated Opinion on other matters prescribed by the balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in Companies Act 2006 equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the In our opinion the information given in the Directors related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework Report for the financial year for which the consolidated that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law accounts are prepared is consistent with the consolidated and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs accounts.
as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the by exception Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We have nothing to report in respect of the following: so that we might state to the companys members those Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report matters we are required to state to them in an auditors to you if, in our opinion: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent OO permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified responsibility to anyone other than the company and the by law are not made: or companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this OO We have not received all the information and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and auditors OO The directors statement, set out on page 105, in relation As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities to going concern: and Statement set out on page 105, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated OO The part of the Corporate Governance Statement accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and relating to the companys compliance with the nine fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified opinion on the consolidated accounts in accordance with for our review: and applicable law and International Standards on Auditing OO Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Board on directors remuneration.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company Scope of the audit of the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December accounts 2010 and on the information in the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Remuneration Report that is described as having and disclosures in the consolidated accounts sufficient to been audited.
give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: London 3 March 2011 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Notes 1 The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the consolidated accounts.
responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Opinion on consolidated accounts the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have In our opinion the consolidated accounts: occurred to the consolidated accounts since they were initially presented on the web site.
OO Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of consolidated accounts may differ from legislation affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the in other jurisdictions.
year then ended: OO Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and 106 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
