82 Directors Report: Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee strives to ensure that the remuneration policy The Committee intends to continue with the general provides a strong and demonstrable link between incentives framework of the remuneration policy for 2010 and and the Groups strategy, and sets a performance-biased subsequent years, amended to take account of the framework for remuneration which is consistent with the changes to bonus and LTIP performance conditions as Groups scale and unique circumstances, and which motivates set out below, and will continue to consult on material its executive Directors and certain senior managers and changes with major institutional shareholders.
enables them to share in the long-term success of the Group, executive Director remuneration in 2010 without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging shortThe Committee determines the remuneration package term measures or excessive risk taking.
for the executive Directors and certain senior managers.
When designing remuneration structures and setting The package is designed to attract and retain high quality performance targets the Committee is mindful of executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
In a high level of long-term corporate performance in line with particular, it will consult with the Group Health, Safety and the best interests of shareholders, whilst avoiding excessive Environment Committee to ensure effective systems are in risk taking and short-term measures.
The principal elements place to mitigate against any health, safety and environmental of remuneration for executive Directors in 2010 were base risks in remuneration incentives.
The Committee monitors salary, benefits in kind, an annual bonus opportunity and, progress and achievement against ESG key performance for Oleg Novachuk, long term incentive plan awards, which indicators which, in part, determine the operational are further explained below.
performance component of the annual bonus of the executive Directors and certain senior managers.
Elements of remuneration for 2011 Element Purpose Methodology Pay around the mid-market level compared to companies of a similar size Base salary To attract and maintain high in the FTSE 100, with particular regard to other mining companies calibre executives reecting market median levels based on role and Company and individual performance executives skills and experiences Economic environment Remuneration levels of Group employees Annual Payments determined on the basis of four discrete elements: Incentivise the delivery of bonus plan annual objectives consistent Operational performance with the Groups strategy, Financial performance without encouraging short-term Strategic development measures or excessive risk taking Shareholder return Payments scaled back in the absence of an improvement in the Companys safety performance Maximum bonus potential of 200% of salary for Oleg Novachuk and 120% of salary for Vladimir Kim for the achievement of stretching performance objectives Target bonus of 50% of maximum bonus potential Annual awards of nil cost options of up to normally 200% of salary LTIP Incentivise long-term value creation, and alignment with Each award split into two sub-awards, each of which is subject to a relative TSR shareholder interests performance condition over a separate three year period combined 41 month performance period.
The two conditions are measured independently Awards vest in full for upper quartile performance.
30% of an award vests for median performance.
No awards vest for below median performance Benets Private medical insurance Car and driver for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk All employee share schemes Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 83 Base salary and benefits Annual bonus plan for 2010 In setting base salaries the Committee considers current The annual bonus plan is reviewed annually and is designed market conditions, the general economic environment, to drive individual performance and profitability.
For 2010, the general salary increases applying across the rest of the Group maximum bonus potential was 120% of salary for Vladimir Kim and individual and Company performance.
Base salaries and Oleg Novachuk, and 200% of salary for David Munro.
paid to executive Directors are adjusted to take account of The maximum bonus potential of David Munro reflects the the absence of any pension provision.
Information on the fact that he does not receive any equity-based incentives.
market for comparable management positions is supplied The proportion of bonus payable for on-target performance is by Hewitt New Bridge Street so that the Committee can 50% of the maximum for all executive Directors that is 60% for form a view as to where to position the various elements of Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, and 100% for David Munro.
the remuneration package relative to comparable companies.
Bonuses, which are payable wholly in cash, are disclosed for For 2010, Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk received a the year in which they are earned although they are not due 5% increase in their salaries with effect from 1 January 2010 and payable until the following March after the release of the and a further 5% increase from 1 July 2010 to reflect their audited financial results.
contribution to the strong performance of the Group in Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk 2009 and the first part of 2010.
These increases brought For Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk the annual bonus plan their salaries into line with those paid in 2008, their salaries in 2010 comprised of four discrete elements: having been reduced by approximately 9% in 2009 to reflect the difficult economic environment of the Group at that time.
an operational performance component including safety Salary increases for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk will representing 40% of salary : be considered by the Committee in June 2011, with any a financial performance component representing 26.7% increases taking effect from 1 July 2011.
For David Munro, of salary : who will be retiring as a Director at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, his annual salary remains a strategic development measure including execution unchanged for 2011 at 750,000 until then.
He will then of new projects representing 26.7% of salary : and enter into a new service agreement with the Company and a shareholder return measure representing 26.7% be employed as a part-time executive.
The base salaries of of salary.
the Groups workforce increased on average by approximately 7% for 2011.
The base salaries for the executive Directors Specific targets are not disclosed as they would give a for 2008, 2009 and 2010 are shown in the table below.
clear indication of the Groups business targets which are commercially sensitive.
In line with competitive practice, executive Directors are entitled to receive additional benefits including medical In determining the actual bonus payments, the Committee insurance and, for Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk, use of takes into consideration such factors as performance related a car and driver.
The value of the benefits for each executive to the Groups financial KPIs, operational performance against Director is shown within the executive Directors total budget, safety performance, business development activities emoluments table on page 84. and performance against industry peers.
Payments are made in return for the achievement of stretching objectives.
executive Directors base salaries 1 2008 2009 2010 Bonuses earned by Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk in 000 000 000 2010 were 70% of salary 2009: 85% of salary, reflecting 2 satisfactory production performance, good financial Vladimir Kim 1,029 930 1,026 performance and shareholder returns, successfully sourcing 2 Oleg Novachuk 819 750 827 financing for major developments which are on track, 3 mitigated by the Company not meeting its safety objectives.
David Munro 525 720 750 The actual bonus payments received by them are shown 1 With effect from 1 April 2009. in the table on page 84.
David munro 3 With effect from 1 April 2010.
In 2010, David Munros annual bonus opportunity comprised of two discrete elements: measurable improvements in the cost base of the Company and its operations under the programme of change being developed and implemented by him in Kazakhstan representing 50% of potential bonus and progress on the Groups two major organic growth projects Aktogay and Bozshakol representing 50% of potential bonus.
