Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Kier Group plc for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 year ended 30 June 2010 set out on pages 64 to 103. the financial in our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and international the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been Financial reporting standards as adopted by the eu iFrs.
the properly prepared in accordance with the companies Act 2006: and financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation the information given in the directors report for the financial year of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and uK for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Accounting standards uK Generally Accepted Accounting practice.
this report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: companys members those matters we are required to state to them under the companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the fullest extent our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true accounting records and returns: and fair view.
our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are accordance with applicable law and international standards on Auditing not made: or uK and ireland.
those standards require us to comply with the Auditing practices Boards ApBs ethical standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements under the listing rules we are required to review: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the ApBs website at www.
the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: and Opinion on financial statements in our opinion: the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the combined the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the code specified for our review.
Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2010 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Andrew Marshall Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in chartered Accountants accordance with iFrs: 8 salisbury square the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared london ec4Y 8BB in accordance with uK Generally Accepted Accounting practice: and 15 september 2010 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the iAs regulation.
Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 63
