King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts Independent auditors report to 109 2009 10 the members of Kingfi sher plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of King sher plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 30 January 2010 which comprise the Parent Company balance In our opinion, the information given in the Directors report for the financial sheet and the related notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Parent Company financial statements.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or not visited by us: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting we have formed.
records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility, the made: or directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require for statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Other matter Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of King sher APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
plc for the year ended 30 January 2010 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting London, United Kingdom policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have 24 March 2010 been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 January 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
