FINaNCIaL stateMeNts INDePeNDeNt aUDItors rePort We have audited the parent Company financial statements of opinion on other matters prescribed by the Marstons PLC for the period ended 2 October 2010 which Companies act 2006 comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Practice.
Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors period for which the parent Company financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial Responsibilities set out on page 45, the Directors are responsible statements.
for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in accordance with applicable law and International Standards where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to our opinion: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and been received from branches not visited by us: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the parent Company financial statements and the part of Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or agreement with the accounting records and returns: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may are not made: or come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts other matter and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Marstons PLC for the period ended 2 October 2010. from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors opinion on financial statements Birmingham In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: 2 December 2010 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 2 October 2010: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 93 www.
