27 Corporate responsibility At Meggitt, we recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
We will comply with all relevant national laws and regulations and aim to continually improve our financial, social and environmental performance.
Policy Meggitt is committed to upholding sound corporate governance minimising the environmental impact principles of products and processes providing a supportive, rewarding and acting as a responsible supplier and safe working environment encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same conducting business relationships in an ethical manner supporting our local communities Action For our stakeholders, this means providing safe working environments modern operational practices effective risk identification and mitigation dynamic business continuity plans maintaining  environmental management systems conducting independent audits professional and comprehensive employee training programmes the social and economic enrichment of local communities robust internal and external reporting and controls ensuring financial probity MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 28 Corporate responsibility Environmental metrics 2011 Change 2011 2010 Change Including Including Excluding Excluding PacSci PacSci PacSci PacSci Utilities Electricity gWh 175 156 148 MWh per m 115 -12% 123 131 -6% Natural gas gWh 204 187 191 MWh per m 134 -20% 148 168 -12% 1 Carbon Dioxide CO tonnes @ 2011 rates 129,333 116,398 112,941 2 Tonnes per m 85.0 -15% 92.0 99.6 -8% Waste tonnes 10,160 8,406 7,303 Tonnes per m 6.67 4% 6.65 6.44 3% Water cubic metres 737,764 644,018 631,508 Cubic metres per m 485 -13% 509 557 -9% Our environmental metrics are reported in full on the CR page of our website.
Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant foreign exchange rates.
Environmental metrics quoted for PacSci are for the full year 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011.
Governance and compliance Environment Meggitts Corporate Responsibility CR Policy published on Meggitts Group Environmental Policy, which was reviewed www.
com underpins the way we manage social, and updated by the Board in January 2012, commits us to ethical and environmental issues.
We devote significant internal resources to implementing it across Meggitt facilities complying with applicable environmental legislation worldwide.
Every site records important data on employees, reducing the environmental impact of our own and our supply chain and health, safety and environmental HSE suppliers products and operations performance.
CR is overseen by our Group Corporate Affairs Director.
HSE To achieve the goals of our Environmental Policy, Meggitts matters, trade compliance and ethics and business conduct are environmental management programme includes setting managed by a highly experienced team of functional specialists.
environmental targets, communicating changing regulatory The Board has appointed an Ethics and Trade Compliance developments, training and information sharing, data analysis Committee to ensure that we have effective programmes in and internal and external auditing of environmental management these areas and to oversee their management.
Meggitt is a signatory to the Sustainable Aviation reviews HSE at each of its meetings and receives a quarterly Strategy of the A|D|S Group the UKs primary aerospace, defence written report from the Vice-President, Health, Safety and and security trade association and is represented on the A|D|S Environment.
Divisional presidents and site directors are environmental and carbon management working groups.
We responsible for implementing our policies at a local level.
provide emissions data to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, There is a phased integration plan for our newly acquired Pacific a non-governmental initiative that measures and discloses the Scientific Aerospace PacSci businesses.
PacSci employees greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies of have already undertaken Code of Conduct and anti-bribery organisations around the world.
Meggitt is a registered training under the Ethics programme and have started to participant in the UKs CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
implement the Trade Compliance programme.
Integration into Meggitt takes a proactive approach to complying with HSE and other programmes also began in 2011. environmental regulation.
Our global environmental audit programme, supported by external consultants, reviews compliance standards at all of our sites on a three-year rolling basis, and recommends best practice.
As a result of this continuous audit programme, we have improved our performance on inspections conducted by external regulatory agencies, reducing the number of regulatory citations received in 2011 by 24% on 2010, excluding PacSci.
All Meggitt sites, excluding PacSci, have successfully attained environmental management system ISO 14001 standard certification.
The PacSci sites will start working towards ISO 14001 certification in 2012.
1 Meggitts carbon emissions data is derived from electricity, gas and fuel oils usage which is converted using the 2011 greenhouse gas conversion factors of the UK Department for Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
For electricity only, DEFRA update prior years conversion factors annually and so Meggitts carbon emissions arising from electricity usage in 2010 have been restated.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 29 We continued to enhance our information-sharing through Health and safety intra-group HSE conferences and an internal website, where we post environmental bulletins and initiatives.
Meggitts Group Health and Safety Policy, which was reviewed and updated by the Board in December 2011, outlines our Our environmental metrics show that our performance relative commitment to to revenue, excluding PacSci, has improved in all key areas, except waste, which has increased: formal management systems for regulatory and legislative compliance and guidance on best practice Energy: the Meggitt Energy Reduction Programme, initiated in 2010, has improved how we share information and best practice integrating identification, assessment and control of on energy performance.
health and safety risks into operational management We are committed to reducing the carbon footprint of our sites.
incorporating health and safety thinking into business plans We have performed well against our five-year target to reduce 2 instilling the importance of health and safety in employees CO emissions by 15% relative to revenue, using 2009 as the 2 at all levels and providing all employees and temporary baseline year.
Between 2009 and 2011 we achieved an 8% workers with appropriate health and safety information reduction in CO emissions.
PacSci will be incorporated into our 2 and training energy programmes and targets during 2012. delivering products and services that can be installed, As part of our commitment to minimise the environmental operated and maintained without risk to health and safety impact of our sites in 2011 our sites have undertaken a number as far as possible of initiatives: consulting stakeholders on health and safety risk In late 2011, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Akron began management the conversion from central steam heat to direct fired natural gas heaters.
This 900,000 energy reduction project is scheduled to conclude in mid-2012 and will result in an Our Health and Safety Policy reinforces our belief that a estimated annual saving of over 2,500 tonnes of CO and an 2 well-supported, effective health and safety management annual cost saving of 265,000. programme is essential to building a sustainable workforce and business.
Meggitt Control Systems, Dunstable achieved an overall 47% reduction in gas usage by revising shut down procedures, One of our highest priorities is to provide a safe, healthy fitting timers and installing an energy management system.
workplace for our employees and we continue to focus on embedding a strong safety culture.
We expect our employees to Meggitt Safety Systems, Simi Valley realised total annual cost take individual responsibility for their health and safety and to savings of 16,500 by replacing two cooling towers with encourage and exhibit safe work behaviour.
variable frequency fan motors and existing air conditioning units with higher energy efficiency rated units that use more In 2011, we continued to work toward improving our health and environmentally friendly refrigerants.
safety performance, applying the key principles of our Health and Safety Policy.
This is achieved by ensuring effective Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Rockmart increased the leadership and health and safety programmes are in place, led efficiency of its air compressors by installing a central by the Group Health and Safety Steering Committee and the receiver tank to allow coordinated compressor output.
The Vice-President, Health, Safety and Environment.
Our global site reduced operational hours on two compressors and health and safety audit programme, supported by external eliminated the need for a third.
In total, these energy-saving consultants, operates according to the same continuous modifications resulted in average cost savings of 75,000 improvement philosophy as our production facilities.
to review compliance standards, recommend remedial action Meggitt Polymers & Composites in Oregon replaced all T12 and share best practice.
In 2011, one third of Meggitt sites lighting with new high-energy efficiency alternatives and were audited.
installed occupancy sensors throughout the facility.
This In 2011, further measures designed to improve safety in the resulted in an annual cost saving of 4,400. workplace were rolled out: Waste: the 3% increase arose from several large scale projects on-line health and safety training programme for all US sites: to dispose of redundant equipment.
Weekly Safety Talk posters for all sites to raise safety Water: the 9% reduction in water usage is largely attributable to awareness: water efficiency projects.
increased health and safety internal inspection frequency: and improved reporting and investigation of workplace accidents.
2 At constant exchange rates and carbon conversion rates.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 30 Corporate responsibility Health and safety continued Trade compliance In all cases, Meggitt implements programmes across the Meggitts Trade Compliance Policy outlines our commitment group that are equivalent to or more stringent than regional to comply fully with the laws and regulations governing trade regulations.
In 2011, there were significant improvements controls in the jurisdictions in which we operate and outstanding achievements at some of our sites: 13 manufacturing sites experienced no lost time accidents.
Meggitts group-wide trade compliance programme is based For its exemplary health and safety management on the model of excellence outlined in the Nunn-Wolfowitz programmes and injury performance and safety record, Task Force Report of 2000 the influential report on export Meggitt Control Systems, Dunstable was requested by the compliance best practice and US Government guidelines.
We UK Health and Safety Executive to assist in their local Estates achieve multiple levels of accountability using five key process Excellence initiative, a programme to help small businesses tools assessment, compliance improvement, verification, control their health and safety risks and protect their corrective action and audit which are applied in a continuum.
employees by creating partnerships between companies, Plans arising from the review elements enable 16 sub-processes councils and regulators.
The partners guide small for 54 businesses to be tracked by managers at all levels, businesses and improve their ability to manage health including the executive leadership team.
Meggitts trade compliance teams receive training and access to There were no fatalities at Meggitt sites in 2011 2010: none.
key subject matter experts inside the group and from global 3 In 2011, the number of reported injuries rose to 69 including trade compliance advisors, JP Morgan Trade Management 4 PacSci 2010: 53.
The accident incident rate remained Consulting.
Meggitts trade compliance website, a customised constant at 737 including PacSci 2010: 737. database of training modules, forms, templates, regulations, editorial and company policy and procedures, is comprehensive In 2011, we continued to improve the way we measure and and well-respected by experts in the field.
collect our health and safety data with the collection of UK 5 RIDDOR equivalent data across the group, trend analysis of In 2011 we started to implement our selected global trade the types and causes of workplace injuries and near-miss data management software solution, Global Trade Services GTS 8.0 to identify key risk areas.
We seek to achieve continuous with Deloitte, to enhance our trade compliance programme.
We improvement in all areas of workplace risk, driving sustainable completed the design phase for North America, Europe and safety behaviour and practices through exemplary leadership of Asia.
We also began testing the many features of the GTS ongoing health and safety initiatives.
This includes integrating programme before implementation at the pilot site in North health and safety performance into business operations as part America in the first quarter of 2012. of overall site and divisional management reviews.
Business ethics We continue to disseminate information and best practice through intra-group conferences, health and safety alerts Meggitts Ethics and Business Conduct Policy commits us to and all-employee bulletins.
conducting business fairly, impartially and in full Compliance with the European Community Regulation on compliance with applicable laws and regulations Registration, Evaluation Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH is managed by the groups REACH Steering integrity and honesty in all our business relationships Committee which has been active in completing due diligence internally and externally and dealing with the risks associated with the potential obsolescence of supply of chemicals used by aerospace Our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and Code of Conduct, manufacturers.
In 2011, Meggitt formed a group Obsolescence overseen by the Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee, must Review Board ORB consisting of representatives from our be followed by all employees and advisers.
All employees, engineering, quality, HSE, procurement, contracts and legal including those from PacSci, have received Code of Conduct functions to work together to assess the impact of REACH and and anti-corruption training and are required to view our ethics other regulatory and supply chain requirements affecting our training videos which are released regularly.
We are a signatory operations in this area.
The HSE Director for Meggitt Sensing to the Statement of Adherence to the Global Principles of Systems is a member of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Business Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry.
In 2011, Association of Europes REACH Implementation Working Group the Group Corporate Affairs Director became a member of the which enables us to source and compare information about Business Ethics Committee of the Aerospace and Defence REACH compliance across the industry.
Industries Association of Europe and our Vice-President, Ethics and Business Conduct served on the Task Force of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct IFBEC.
3 We define reported injuries as those which are reportable under local laws regulations.
4 The accident incident rate is calculated by taking the number of reported injuries, multiplied by 100,000 and dividing it by the average employee headcount during the year.
5 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurences Regulations 1995.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 31 Meggitts green machines A balanced engine helps aircraft to run more smoothly, Today, many of the commercial aircraft built before our which leads to greater passenger comfort, better fuel cold fan trim balancing technology was developed have efficiency in flight and lower maintenance costs due to been retrofitted.
However, we expect retrofit orders for less wear from excessive vibration.
For almost 30 years, the next three years until virtually all older aircraft in Meggitt has been making it easier, cheaper and more service have the technology.
The airlines are very positive environmentally friendly to keep aircraft engines balanced.
about this technology because it helps them to reduce delays and cancellation and reduce labour and overtime.
Balancing an engine was an expensive and At the same time, Meggitts cold fan trim balancing environmentally hazardous proposition until a major solution helps them minimise their impact on the European airline asked Meggitt to help them find a better environment by saving 1,500 gallons of fuel per plane solution.
Until the 1980s, to gather data to balance the per balancing operation.
aircrafts engine, it had to be run at high thrust whilst the aircraft was stationary.
Meggitt developed the first system For a modest fleet of 120 large jet commercial aircraft, to take in-flight engine and rotor vibration data that could Meggitts technology can save over 100,000 gallons of be used by technicians on the ground.
Our cold fan trim aviation fuel per year, reducing CO emissions by over 2 balancing technology was so beneficial that, by the late 1,000 tonnes and costs by over 200,000.
Since most 1990s, most new aircraft were built with it.
commercial aircraft worldwide have adopted this technology to avoid traditional balancing procedures, the annual savings to our customers and to the environment are quite profound.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 32 Corporate responsibility Our people, local communities and charitable donations 6 Employees by division At the end of 2011, Meggitt employed approximately 10,500 Number of employees people worldwide, having welcomed around 2,400 new colleagues into the group through the acquisition of PacSci.
10,538 The engagement of our employees is key to our future success.
During 2011 all Meggitts employees were given the opportunity to participate in our global employee opinion survey.
During 2012, comprehensive feedback will be shared throughout the group, leading to initiatives to build on our strengths and target improvements.
Learning, career development and strong leadership are vital components of Meggitts drive for all employees to deliver high Aircraft Braking Systems 1,194 11% levels of performance in their roles.
In 2011, we rolled-out a Control Systems 1,121 11% global change leadership programme to equip managers with the Polymers & Composites 2,090 20% skills to work in a complex matrix environment and to become Sensing Systems 1,528 15% more effective leaders of their teams.
Continued investment was Equipment Group 4,107 39% made in our executive leadership programme.
We focused on Cross-group facilities 498 4% our processes for succession planning, recruitment, and performance management to attract, develop and motivate talented engineers and staff across all areas of the group.
Employees by length of 6 service years All employees should have an equal opportunity to succeed in an Number of employees environment free of discrimination within which the contribution of all is fairly recognised.
All Meggitt employees are encouraged 10,538 through our ethics programme and by adhering to our corporate values to ensure that everyone is treated fairly.
Meggitt makes an important economic contribution to our local communities, with salaries, social security contributions and taxes across the group amounting to approximately 478.3 million in 2011 32.9% of revenue.
Individual Meggitt sites work with the local community and support charities at their discretion.
Yearly reports reveal the Less than 5 4,784 exceptional generosity of many employees who give time and Between 5 and 10 2,069 money to a wide range of national and local initiatives.
Education Between 10 and 15 1,375 Business Partnerships and the UK Governments STEM Between 15 and 20 521 Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics initiative Between 20 and 25 565 were supported locally by sites.
Meggitts headquarters, based Over 25 1,224 in Dorset, UK, continued to sponsor the Arkwright Scholarship Trust, the Institute of Mechanical Engineers Schools Aerospace 6 Employees by region Challenge, the local Community Foundation and the Poole Number of employees Hospital Staff Excellence Awards.
10,538 North America 6,105 58% UK 2,283 22% Mainland Europe 1,484 14% Rest of World 666 6% 6 As at 31 December 2011 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
