2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Corporate social responsibility Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Introduction In addition to helping customers to adopt carbon friendly IT strategies, The board, management team and employees are committed to Micro Focus is working to reduce its own carbon footprint and to operating the Group in accordance with best practice in corporate effectively record, monitor and achieve this reduction.
With a presence social responsibility CSR.
Employees, shareholders, customers, in 29 countries worldwide, Micro Focus is conscious of its total energy business partners, suppliers and local communities all play a part in consumption and the amount of waste materials generated and is the structure and development of the Micro Focus CSR programme, actively working to reduce both energy usage and the quantity of waste as part of a broader commitment to effective corporate governance materials produced that cannot be recycled.
In this context, Micro Focus seeks to integrate CSR considerations into all aspects of its day-to-day operations.
This is Micro Focus second year of commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
This is an initiative which encourages organisations CSR policies at Micro Focus are reviewed and monitored at board level to actively record and monitor their carbon emissions with a view to on a six monthly basis, with non executive director involvement in the reduce their output of carbon.
This requires the publication of Scope 1 CSR committee, which meets regularly to agree priorities and progress and Scope 2 emissions around the world.
Micro Focus is continuing to activities.
During the year to 30 April 2011, the CSR committee met mature and embed this into its day-to-day way of doing business.
Focus is currently implementing initiatives to reduce carbon emissions and has more planned for the ensuing year.
Activities span the Groups operations, both geographically and in terms of work areas.
For example, Micro Focus offi ces around the In 2010, Micro Focus registered for the UK Governments Carbon world participate in local community and charity relations, research Reduction Commitment.
In the second year of reporting, the annual and development teams consider environmental implications consumption remains below the reporting threshold and therefore now throughout product development projects, and employee improvement remains in the exempt category until such times as the levels are programmes lie at the heart of Micro Focuss culture and values.
Micro Focus will continue to respond to commitments of this nature.
The CSR Policy at Micro Focus covers four areas the environment, people, charity & community relations and the supply chain & Micro Focus operations around the world comply with all local marketplace.
Please visit our website www.
The Group continues to adopt automated read our full Corporate Responsibility Policy.
processes to reduce the quantity of paper and packaging that is used in the business.
In addition, employees are encouraged to think carefully Micro Focus follows relevant CSR legislation across the geographies before travelling and to use video conferencing facilities and other where it operates and communicates the importance of its policies methods of communication instead.
to employees, customers, partners and the communities these stakeholders work within.
Beyond legislation compliance, the Group Internationally Micro Focus complies with both the EU Decreto encourages better CSR working models to create better business, Legislativo 152 year 2006 and US state and federal waste management minimise environmental impact and generate enjoyable and rewarding policies and legislation.
Examples of our energy effi ciency are: working conditions for employees.
Waste and recycling constitutes 0.32% of total overhead costs: Micro Focus continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index, All packaging is both biodegradable and recyclable and adorned with the responsible investment index calculated by global index provider the Universal symbol for recycling: FTSE Group.
Recycling bins are situated throughout global offi ces and waste recycling measures have been expanded in the year to 30 April 2011: Environment All packaging and products are labelled with aqueous inks: therefore a Micro Focus is one of Europes largest software companies, and believes greater proportion of materials are biodegradable and recyclable, and that the IT sector can deliver meaningful solutions to reduce industrys is accredited with PEFC and FSC environmental certifi cations: carbon footprint.
Hard case plastic has been replaced by softer DVD cases which have a shorter lifecycle and are more biodegradable: and We recognise that our products and services can impact many other Over 87% of product deliveries are now electronic as opposed to IT dependent organisations by helping them to manage their IT physically packaged and delivered, lowering customer and partner infrastructure in a more effi cient and environmentally friendly way.
carbon footprints as well as providing a faster customer service model.
Micro Focus products give organisations the opportunity to generate more effi ciency and longer life from existing technology and equipment, Micro Focus does not have any prosecutions or fi fines for issues relating as a viable alternative to rip & replace strategies.
Micro Focus International plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility continued People The Senior Leadership Team continues to expand the responsibility During the past fi five years, Micro Focus made seven acquisitions.
These and ownership of corporate priorities throughout the organisation at transactions have signifi cantly expanded the Group workforce and a time of signifi cant change.
This group of approximately 40 leaders added to the complexity of the organisational structure.
Following this meets in person every six months and participates in regular rapid growth, the last twelve months have been a period of integration conference calls to stay updated on and communicate key corporate for employees.
More than 100 offi ce locations have been consolidated developments throughout the Group: to less than half that number with structural changes designed to bring An employee-only intranet system acts as a resource for all employees together areas of expertise into key locations to cover important to help increase individual awareness of the overall Group strategy product sets and customer care capabilities.
At the same time, sales and objectives, each departments activities, and ongoing updates on and marketing teams have been realigned to better support customer relevant news and developments: and partner needs through integrated go to market resources and Updates for all employees take place monthly, including conference targeted programmes.
calls or recordings being made available on the intranet, with regular video messages from senior executives to further explain and Micro Focus now employs in excess of 1,200 employees across 29 underline priority matters: different countries: 34% are based in North America, 56% in Europe, Country-level all-employee meetings take place on a regular basis and Middle East, Latin America and Africa and 10% in Asia Pacifi c. are supported by team and individual meetings to discuss corporate progress and local priorities: Corporate changes during the last twelve months have underlined the Micro Focus employs an equal opportunities policy approved by need for robust and well planned employee development programmes, ACAS that is followed across all Group operations, with the intent of in addition to comprehensive employee communication.
attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining valuable employees: A new job grading initiative has been introduced with clear criteria All employees continue to participate in performance management for progression from one level to the next and this will be a platform programmes that include formal reviews on a six monthly basis.
for building clear career paths in our major functions: and Regular manager engagement and review is also encouraged and Micro Focus directors actively encourage employee equity supported.
Staff are supported to achieve and maintain a high standard participation.
The Group operates a UK Sharesave and US ESPP of performance in their work, and appropriate training is provided to scheme.
In addition, an International Sharesave scheme was meet these standards.
Where performance standards are not met, introduced during the year to broaden participation across the Group.
Micro Focus operates improvement plans and a fair and systematic These schemes are now available to employees in 19 countries.
approach to dismissals and disciplinary measures affecting all grades of employee within the Group.
The health, welfare and development of Micro Focus employees remain a priority.
The Group is committed to providing a rewarding and During the past year a Next Generation Leadership programme has enjoyable working environment within effective corporate governance been introduced.
This new development programme identifi es and guidelines.
develops high potential employees who attend residential courses to build their leadership skills to support the future success of the Health and Safety business.
The programme has created a network of 85 infl uential High standards of health and safety are an integral part of Micro managers across the Group.
Focus business performance and apply to all business locations.
All policies are reviewed on a regular basis according to current and Employee communications and engagement activities in the last twelve local legislation and employees are involved in the decision making months have been developed in response to the fi findings of a Micro policy with a dedicated health and safety committee comprising Focus employee survey in 2010, which was completed with a high members from all departments throughout the organisation.
participation rate of 83% of all staff.
Building regular communications Employees are made aware of policies and any individuals whose and encouraging employee feedback have been key goals, and a job description involves more than the basic activity requirements number of new initiatives combine with existing programmes to or knowledge receives relevant training from a qualifi ed external improve engagement levels: organisation.
Examples of training include physical handling, fi re wardens and fi first aid.
Micro Focus International plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Micro Focus employs a comprehensive hazard identifi cation, risk Local programmes are supplemented with an annual international assessment and control process in all offi ces to ensure that hazards fundraising initiative.
Following support to the Red Cross Haiti appeal are avoided completely or effectively managed, after any incidents in the prior year, Micro Focus selected the Red Cross Japan earthquake occur, corrective actions are timely, complete and effective.
The Group appeal during the year as a global fundraising cause, raising 20,000 has had only one reportable incident in the past fi five years.
Hazard and from a variety of activities across the Groups global operations.
The risk management is carried out by external contractors.
funding directly supported recovery measures for local residents after the natural disaster there earlier this year.
Business Ethics Micro Focus is committed to maintaining a high standard of business In the last year, the UK team was shortlisted and attended the 2010 conduct and ethics throughout the Group and a Code of Business Business Charity Awards for best challenge team in association with Conduct and Ethics Code refl ects the business practices and Action for Children.
principles of behaviour that support this commitment.
The Group expects every employee to read and comply with the Code.
In addition, In addition to community and charitable work, Micro Focus runs the a fraud risk register is maintained and reviewed regularly Academic ConnecTIONs ACTION Program to support Enterprise IT by the management team and the audit committee.
skills development in academic institutions.
This initiative is designed to extend the teaching of core technology skills to IT students around IT security policies are designed to protect the Groups investment the world.
It promotes the teaching of COBOL and Modernization in research and development programmes and commercialisation technologies in universities worldwide with free software downloads activities.
Up-to-date security systems are in place to protect the for students and the provision of materials to help colleges develop Groups IT systems and intellectual property is protected through relevant courses in application modernization technologies.
appropriate trademark registration and a patenting programme.
Micro Focus respects the rights to privacy of customers, associates, Marketplace customers and supply chain or employees and any data or information held by Micro Focus is Micro Focus software products enable customers to extract more value held securely and only authorised staff can gain access.
from existing technology or to transform proprietary IT infrastructures to more nimble, modern and cost-effi cient environments.
These The community products do not always require an investment in new IT hardware, Community and charity work helping organisations to reduce their carbon footprint.
Micro Focus impact on the community has grown in line with its corporate expansion.
The Group is now active in 29 countries and Micro Focus already offers almost all of its products in a downloadable serves more than 11,000 customers, independent software vendors format via the web, removing costly and carbon footprint impacting and partners together with many more end users.
packaging and shipping requirements from the transaction.
Our customers have achieved improvements in their operational effi ciency, Employees proactively support their local communities and Micro Focus consuming less resource and less energy.
Micro Focus provides software encourages these initiatives.
Corporate support is provided on a that boosts effi ciencies to a number of vertical industries including funds-matching basis and a number of man-days per month for team fi financial services, retail, utilities, transportation, automotive, and national activities which directly benefi t a charity.
Policies are pharmaceuticals, telecoms and government, all of which have their designed to select charities and causes that demonstrate strong own rigorous carbon responsibilities.
For example, in our work with educational and local impact.
Project grants are offered throughout the distribution customers, our software has improved stock replenishment year, with allocations limited so that charity and community initiatives systems which in turn can improve waste management levels at are spread evenly over time, after approval by local country charity these organisations.
In the supply chain we support suppliers CSR commitments and A team in Sofi a, Bulgaria donated clothing and books, and set up an IT also set our own requirements for those who wish to do business suite in a local orphanage.
In Newbury, UK, employees gave money to with Micro Focus.
We ensure partners and suppliers understand fund a Christmas lunch for 50 local elderly residents who had no family our own CSR standards and encourage them to meet the same nearby.
In Mountain View, USA, employees provided 15 backpacks level of best practice.
fi lled with school supplies for needy children.
Micro Focus International plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
