Corporate social responsibility Responsible Hospitality We understand that our customers, investors, employees and suppliers actively choose their relationships with the Group.
Increasingly, this choice depends on the degree to which we demonstrate corporate social responsibility: behaving ethically and legally, treating our employees with respect and consideration, finding ways to minimise our impact on the environment and doing what we can to improve the lives of those in the wider community around us.
Aside from its social contribution as a profitable, taxpaying enterprise, the Group recognises that delivering good long-term returns to shareholders requires it to demonstrate commitment to corporate social responsibility.
To this end, the Board has adopted - and reviews regularly - a number of policies, collectively referred to as Responsible Hospitality.
The Board also recognises the need to communicate to stakeholders its progress on executing these policies.
Responsibility to Employees For the year to 31 December 2011, the average number of Group employees, worldwide in 19 countries, was 10,912.
Our employees are the foundation of our business.
We aim to retain a knowledgeable, skilled and diverse workforce which is motivated and appropriately rewarded.
Following the publication in February 2011 of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, the Board published a statement on workforce diversity, including gender diversity, which is available on the Groups website at www.
com corporate investor relations downloads board diversity policy.
pdf We aim to ensure that everyone who works for the Group has the right skills and knowledge to do their jobs and encourage employees to gain industry-relevant qualifications where appropriate.
In addition to encouraging employees to gain additional qualifications and supporting career development, the Group supports hospitality education around the world by providing workplace experience to students where appropriate schemes operate.
The Group maintains a code of high ethical standards, which it expects all of its employees to adhere to.
It will not tolerate anti-competitive practices, bribery, fraud or other forms of corruption and has whistle-blowing policies in place to ensure that any occurrence of such can be identified and dealt with appropriately and swiftly.
When employees develop health problems we aim to support them so as to promote a swift return to work wherever possible.
We aim, wherever it is possible to do so, to rehabilitate staff who have suffered a problem or disability that interferes with their ability to work.
For those who cannot be accommodated, we are committed to arranging a sensitively-managed departure.
The Group has adopted a formal Human Rights policy which supports our commitment to International Labour Organisation standards and the UN Global Compact on human rights and labour and to providing equal opportunities in employment without discrimination.
Staff by function Function 2011 2010 Hotel Operating Staff 8,565 8,960 Management Administration 1,365 1,219 Sales and Marketing 398 500 Repairs and Maintenance 584 553 Total 10,912 11,232 39 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility continued Responsibility to Employees continued Staff by Gender % Gender 2011 2010 53.35 53.29 % Male % Female 46.65 46.71 Staff by Age % Age Range 2011 2010 Below 30 48.19 44.08 30-50 44.49 45.72 Above 50 7.32 10.20 A Healthy Workplace Maintaining high standards of health and safety is vital to the Group, both in terms of protecting employees and suppliers visiting our premises and assuring the satisfaction of our guests.
The Group seeks to comply with legal requirements regarding health and safety in every city and region in which it operates.
The Group aims to achieve compliance with the occupational health and safety assessment specification OHSAS 18001.
OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised assessment specification for occupational health and safety management systems, which provides a framework to identify and control health and safety risks, reduce the potential for accidents, aid legislative compliance and improve overall performance.
In 2011, the European regions health and safety system received formal accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
This system will now be progressively implemented in other regions.
In the USA an improved health and safety training programme was implemented during the first quarter of 2011.
The training is designed to improve the health, welfare, security and safety of our employees and guests and includes topics related to prevention of accidents and injuries.
The European region has invested in and implemented a new dedicated health and safety IT system.
We are planning to roll-out this new system to other operating regions.
Responsibility to the Environment The Group seeks to minimise its impact on the environment.
Our Responsible Hospitality policies aim to ensure operational compliance with all relevant environmental legislation in all of those countries where we operate.
The Group aims to achieve compliance with the environmental management system ISO 14001.
In 2011, the European regions environmental management system achieved formal accreditation to the ISO 14001 standard.
Our UK properties were awarded the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of achievements in measuring, managing and reducing carbon emissions.
The M Hotel in Singapore received the coveted Green Hotel Award by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Many of our New Zealand hotels have received the Qualmark Enviro Award.
We are continually assessing our environmental impact and actively seeking ways to reduce it through improvements in our hotels operating infrastructure and modifying working practices aimed at reducing energy consumption, reducing water consumption and reducing the amount of waste produced from our hotels.
Management also works with our suppliers to minimise the environmental impact of their activities.
Environmental performance is also being integrated into the operational objectives of general managers and other managerial staff.
40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility continued Responsibility to the Environment continued The Group monitors the carbon footprint for all of its owned and managed properties.
Details of our carbon footprint are summarised below.
Accurate measurement of our carbon footprint is an integral part of objective setting for hotels noted above, with energy consumption being the single largest element of our footprint.
The Board has set a target for the Groups energy consumption to be reduced by 10% over the two-year period ending 31 December 2012 and management is working towards this target.
2 Like-for-like comparisions are provided to reflect movements in the Groups hotel portfolio.
Responsibility to the Wider Community As owners as well as operators, the Group recognises that it plays a role in those communities in which our hotels are based, providing employment directly and indirectly and paying property taxes to local governments.
The Group encourages its hotels to reach out to local communities and become involved in community projects.
Our staff members devote their time and energy to projects and our hotels donate facilities and resources in accordance with our charity policy.
During the year staff members in all regions have been involved in a wide range of events and activities linked to projects to benefit childrens charities: health and wellbeing charities and initiatives: the environment: charities for elderly and infirm: and educational support.
We have forged strong relationships with educational establishments, both local to our hotels and further afield, offering opportunities for young people to experience work in the hospitality industry and encouraging management staff to become involved with local schools and colleges by becoming governors.
At Group level we donated 35,000 during 2011 2010: 42,000 to a range of charitable organisations.
We were pleased to announce that we entered into a nominated charity relationship with the British Heart Foundation and will be working with this charity on fund raising over the next two years.
Our procurement teams are working on sustainability initiatives with the supply chain.
We are increasing our efforts to work with suppliers that have proven CSR credentials.
We are introducing systems to help trace supplies to sustainable sources and, in the case of meat products, ensure that producers use farming methods with high animal welfare standards.
Looking Forward As a major hotel owner and operator, we recognise the Groups impact on society cannot be measured by financial performance alone.
It will continue to commit time and resources in order to refine operating practices and improve performance from a CSR perspective.
The Group considers that this will enhance its reputation for Responsible Hospitality, will strengthen our relationship with customers, employees and suppliers and will support our aim to add value for our shareholders.
41 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2011
