Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation.
RUHGR :KX OIKY :NK GOS UL ZNK.
RUHGR :KX OIKY ZKGS OY ZU HK ZNK VXU OJKX UL INUOIK LUX ZKINTURUM GTJ IUTY[RZOTM YKX OIKY GYYUIOGZKJ ]OZN ZNK YGRK OSVRKSKTZGZOUT [VMXGJK GTJ UTMUOTM Y[VVUXZ UL GRR UL 4OY Y YULZ]GXK YUR[ZOUTY Revenue grew 10% Operational excellence Our teams engage with customers push on profitable growth at each stage of their relationship We are undertaking in-depth reviews with Misys: from solution consultancy of our projects to better measure and at the outset of an implementation or control their timeliness, resource upgrade through to implementation optimisation and customer satisfaction.
and integration services, product training By establishing clear measurements and ongoing support and maintenance.
that can be applied to each project We have streamlined the organisational and devolving accountability to project structure to better meet customer-needs, managers, we have started to see a concentrating non-customer-facing positive impact on project metrics.
staff in our Global Service Centres in Localising accountability at the project Bangalore, Beijing, Bucharest and Manila level promotes earlier engagement with and retaining project specialists and sales and solutions consulting, resulting Carlos Lopez-Abadia Vice President consultants in customer-facing roles in a more effective execution by all Services & Support across our regions.
Building a high performance team This is integrated into the companys Business summary Operating as a high performance team wider drive to devolve more decisionis a strategic imperative for the success making into its regional operating units 3 Extended services and support of our services business.
Our value lies and down to client-facing staff.
The offerings through initiatives such as in our ability to unlock the full potential next step is to industrialise the services premium support of our software efficiently and effectively process to deliver projects faster with 3 Total revenue grew by 10% so that our clients can benefit from the ultimate goal of being able to offer 3 Service orders grew by 11% their investment in Misys solutions competitive, xed price projects for and expand their use within their standard implementations.
To deliver the levels making good progress in this area by Global Services provides: of performance that we want to standardising methodologies and tools, achieve across all areas of our services developing best practices that can be 3 System integration services for organisation, we are basing our services re-used easily across different projects, Misys solutions strategy around three key components: and systematically identifying those 3 Implementation & technical Creating exceptional value for our project components that can be services customers delivered off-shore.
3 Training & education via the Misys Ensuring operational excellence Academy Developing unique skills and Effective customer support 3 Custom development knowledge in our people 71% of our support staff are now based in 3 Premium Support Services our Global Service Centres in Bangalore, 3 Application Support The main thrust over the course of the Manila, Bucharest and Beijing.
Our most year has been on honing the Global seasoned support staff remain close to Services teams to deliver operational customer locations, working on-site with excellence and achieving the right key customers to resolve issues.
structure to focus on further developing our skills to meet customer needs.
Our support teams strive to ensure Global Services revenues are managed and customer success.
Successful customers included within business division results.
Financial engender loyalty, will buy more and are performance measures reported on a pro-forma, more likely to recommend Misys.
See the financial review year, we launched the Make it 10 for reconciliation to as reported measures.
34 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Misys Managed Services Asian Banker award: Best Back Ofce Trading System Misys Managed Services, in particular Misys won this award for the successful Premium Support Services continued implementation of Misys Summit FT at to grow signicantly over the year Bank of Communications in Shanghai reecting the growth potential to support the front-to-back operations highlighted in last years annual report.
of the banks derivatives business.
Revenues grew by 73% reecting the Speed of implementation, the benefit to pipeline generated over the year by the the banks entire derivatives business launch of this new service offering.
and the skilled professional services Over 23% of our expanded customer team that supported the bank base has now taken some form of throughout the project were the key projects went live in 2011 Managed Services from Misys.
The objective was to provide Bank of Communications with a real-time  solution for its derivative products that would be up and running within a six month timeframe.
initiative aimed at achieving 10 out of 10 KRO KXOTM GR[K in post support case surveys.
As a result of this initiative, ratings of 9 and above 7GXZTKXOTM LUX Y[IIKYY jumped by 45%, giving an industry leading Net Promoter score for case satisfaction.
Partner relationships complement our Client service is of utmost importance unique services and support offerings to us.
We continually strive to improve Investing in people for Misys solutions.
We partner with our service in every way we can, to We have launched a number of initiatives HCL and everis on a global level, where all our clients, whatever their size.
to ready our workforce to meet the their business consulting expertise and This means we have to introduce changing requirements of our client base.
project scoping skills add significant the best technology on the market Initiatives such as these enable our people value to client engagements.
We to improve systems, achieve optimal to develop their skills and progress whilst engage with many partners at a local efficiency and keep costs and risks benefiting our clients via more highly level to help us win business and to a minimum.
trained, motivated teams that understand provide local expertise.
their business better: With increasing trading volumes and new financial instruments, we Next year will see us delivering the Recruitment we have stepped up needed a system that could support growth that we have lined the Global our recruitment programmes to bring our operations seamlessly from the Services team up to achieve.
We intend in new skills including more extensive front ofce to the back.
Misys to leverage the potential for learning project management capabilities that Summit FT is the very best of fully and training programmes and continue are required in the eld.
This includes integrated solutions on the market to drive profitable growth, faster enhanced graduate schemes that and the Misys team worked with us implementations and superior support provide a true career path within Misys tirelessly to achieve a smooth and for our clients.
so that we can develop and nurture timely transition.
Shen Shaozhen Skills rotation we have embarked on General Manager, Bank of a programme to rotate resources Communications Operations Centre between our services and support teams to provide our staff with a 360 view of the customer.
Commenced in Asia, this Strategy update programme has already delivered more than 5,000 man days of services through Lead: 2-4 years Future our support staff and is now being rolled out globally.
3 Extend product portfolio coverage 3 Continued improvement to and functionality infrastructure, methodologies Certication programmes we are Ongoing process and processes expanding our online-based training 3 Develop proprietary methodologies to provide self-service opportunities for 3 Extend into higher value 3 Drive quality and customer staff to continually increase and update service offerings satisfaction their product knowledge.
In conjunction Achieved with Premium 3 Increase speed of delivery with this initiative, we are launching Support Services a 3-level certication programme to measure our skills progression to 3 Increase use of partnerships continuously challenge ourselves and In progress grow our expertise.
