Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation 7KUVRK 6[X VKUVRK GXK U[X SUYZ OSVUXZGTZ GYYKZ GTJ ]K IUTZOT[K ZU LUI[Y GTJ OT KYZ OT U[X ZGRKTZ ZU KTY[XK ZNK NG K ZNK YQORRY TKKJKJ ZU MXU] ZNK 4OY Y H[YOTKYY Our business depends on our people, Developing talent and our people depend on a working Identifying, nurturing and developing environment and culture that empowers talent lies at the heart of our people them to succeed, whatever their role in strategy.
We are continuing to invest the organisation.
We have reviewed our in our employees to ensure that they organisational design and streamlined have the skills needed to grow the our business to adjust to regional Misys business and will be signicantly demands and new growth markets expanding our people programmes and whilst maintaining close alignment with learning initiatives over the coming year.
Distinguished Engineer Programme We have hired approximately 900 new launched in 2010 to recognise the employees over the course of the year, importance of technical leadership within 60% of which were for development Misys.
This programme was designed to Frank Douglas and customer support roles, demonstrating provide additional career opportunities Executive Vice President our commitment to these areas of and reward outstanding technical and Group HR Director our business.
and customer support activities are concentrated in our Global Development Leadership & management courses Our people programmes: Centres in India, the Philippines, China, ensure that we have consistent Romania, Ireland and France.
leadership skills across our global 3 Online and classroom based centres, regional hubs and local ofces learning Overall headcount has increased by 6% in order to provide world-class support to 3 Misys Academy excluding the impacts of the divestiture our customers.
Over 400 managers have 3 Distinguished Engineer Programme of Allscripts and acquisition of Sophis.
completed our Essential Management 3 Graduate trainees Through our recruitment programme, we Skills courses.
Next year, we are 3 Employee engagement are bringing in new expertise from both launching a more advanced programme within and outside of our industry, as well for senior managers to help them and as having a renewed focus on graduate their teams prepare for and navigate the Employee engagement: recruitment to support our future talent next wave of growth to drive results.
ow and drive a high performance 3 Improvements in overall culture.
We are currently embarking on Top 100 our top performing employees engagement score a global recruitment drive for our sales are identied and prioritised for talent 3 Enthusiasm for delivering good and pre-sales functions.
management, coaching and succession customer service was higher than planning.
We now have a strong the norm 10% above benchmark management team in place which is 3 Belief in the effectiveness of the positioned to take Misys to the next level.
Executive team 3 Nearly 75% of the organisation The Top 100 underpins the Executive responded to this survey 66% Team with their ability to communicate last year our company vision, demonstrate 3 Top down communications strategic agility, lead with integrity and by effective and easy to understand new employees example, and inspire and develop others.
3 Overall strategy and goal alignment is positive people understand how their work contributes to the objectives of the organisation 36 Annual Report 2011 Business review Misys Leading technology and innovation Graduate programmes focus on Promoting equal opportunities We conduct an annual survey to review developing transferable skills that and diversity how our employees are feeling about the combine business knowledge with Misys is committed to a workplace business, their role and our future.
This functional and product training.
Our that is free from unlawful discrimination, feedback is essential in building business graduate recruits balance on the job harassment, victimisation and retaliation plans to ensure that we motivate staff learning with e-learning curriculums where everyone will receive equal and implement the changes necessary and class-based training.
treatment regardless of gender, colour, to achieve our next level of growth.
ethnic or national origin, disability, age, The HR organisation is focused on We have a renewed focus on graduate marital status, sexual orientation or streamlining processes, policies and recruitment and development in religion.
We promote equality and work management information to deliver support of our talent mission: to improve to the principle that all employees are consistent service and provide the business results and gain competitive selected and treated on the basis of their information required to support advantage now and for the future by abilities, merits and potential and do not decision-making.
identifying and building talent across take irrelevant factors into consideration.
the organisation growing talent from Misys recognises the diversity of the local within.
We currently have graduate population within which it operates and programmes in some of our key sites, embraces diversity within the workplace Manila, Bangalore, New York and a focus to enhance the vibrancy of culture and on sales in London.
We will continue experience and encourages fairness to strengthen our bench and our and justice.
approach to an end-to-end leadership development framework to help us It is our policy that people with disabilities attract and retain the best talent in should have full and fair consideration the market.
Should an individual become disabled whilst employed at Safeguarding our staff Misys we will endeavour to retain them in Our people are our business and the workforce.
We will actively retrain and therefore we need to ensure that we adjust their working environment where have adequate safeguards in place to possible to facilitate their needs and to ensure their safety.
We have a global allow them to maximise their potential.
security strategy that provides all employees with access to medical, security and travel assistance.
A dedicated Business Continuity team keeps all employees up-to-date with the latest security announcements worldwide via the corporate intranet and utilises a global notication service for those travelling on business and in times of crisis.
Our business continuity plans were put into action to deal with the Japanese tsunami and earthquake disaster, enabling us to provide immediate assistance to employees and their families.
