Corporate social responsibility A comprehensive overview of our corporate social responsibility activities can be found online.
40 Over 40 of our restaurants and pubs across the country entered and won a Best Bar None Award for upholding the highest standards of safety and security.
com responsibility Responsible service Highlights 2011 We recognise we have an inherent duty under our alcohol licences to ensure the responsible Our corporate social responsibility highlights this year are: operation of our premises for our guests, employees and the wider community.
Healthy eating Harvester became the first national restaurant brand to place dish by dish Alongside this we continue to emphasise calorie information on menus the pubs key role in providing a safe and Environment We made a commitment to send zero waste to landfill by the end of 2013 controlled environment for the sale and consumption of alcohol.
Drinking responsibly Over 1,400 of our restaurants and pubs now include unit information on drinks menus to help promote customer awareness of responsible drinking Our long-standing Alcohol and Social Active lifestyle We began our three year sponsorship of Great Britain Hockey Responsibility Policy reflects these values and incorporates strict controls over the pricing and Community We raised over 260,000 for charities from corporate donations and through promotion of our alcoholic products, as well as our restaurants and pubs robust staff training practices.
As one of the leading eating and drinking-out At the same time, our chefs work closely with Through the rigorous implementation of our companies in the UK we place a strong our food suppliers to develop our menus, Challenge 21 scheme, we continue to commit to emphasis on operating a sustainable and particularly focusing on improving the our staff delivering responsible service across responsible business.
As a result, delivering and nutritional content of each individual item.
Last year 675,000 customers were maintaining an effective social responsibility This year we appointed a dedicated Company refused service for failing to prove they were programme is something we take very seriously.
nutritionist to assist us with this development, over 18 and over 229,000 were refused service and accelerate our food responsibility as they were deemed to have already had Good food and great choice programme internally and across our too much to drink.
In addition, to reflect the Attitudes towards food and eating-out are supplier base.
changes in Scottish law, we now have our changing and our customers want to know Challenge 25 programme in place across our more about the food they eat.
We have identified a number of target areas Scottish businesses.
which are important to us as a leading player We want our customers to be able to make in the food industry and which we are focusing The Public Health Responsibility Deal an informed choice and therefore providing on as a priority, including: the increased Mitchells & Butlers has been engaged in the detailed nutritional information about food is provision of nutritional information to Governments Public Health Responsibility becoming a welcome addition to the menu customers: developing and signposting healthy Deal, taking part in both the alcohol and food when dining out in one of our restaurants.
options: reducing saturated fat in our dishes: network groups to develop a series of pledges developing a salt reduction programme: for action across the industry.
Mitchells & We already provide this information on our designing nutritionally balanced young guest Butlers has signed up to a series of alcohol Harvester, Toby Carvery, Crown Carveries menus: and providing customers with allergen pledges including providing clear unit labelling and Sizzling Pubs websites and we are guidance.
Our food development and trading on our drinks menus, support of alcohol continuing to work to provide the same level teams will work alongside our brands and awareness campaigns and taking part in the of information for all our other brands by the suppliers to progress these priorities over the Challenge 21 scheme.
Harvester has also signed end of 2012.
In March, Harvester took a further coming months.
up to the calorie labelling pledge and became step and became the first national restaurant the first UK-wide restaurant brand to print brand to print dish by dish calorie information calories on menus.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Healthy eating Harvester has joined the Governments Public Health Responsibility Deal and become the first UK-wide restaurant brand to print calories on menus.
We are keen to play our part in working with Our energy reduction process is based around Government and industry on public health a core programme of operational best practice issues and understand that this includes and training standards.
Alongside this our ensuring consumers have the information they energy management team co-ordinate a need to make informed choices when eating series of projects to help us proactively and drinking in our businesses.
manage our energy resources and drive down consumption levels.
We are a major funder of the Drinkaware Environmental matters Trust.
All our drinks menus now include the Waste and recycling progress This year a number of successful trial projects Drinkaware strapline and unit of alcohol In the year, we announced we are on target to are being extended across our business information.
We will continue to support the send zero waste direct to landfill by the end including the introduction of LED lighting Trusts work to reduce alcohol misuse and of 2013.
Over the last five years our waste and automated equipment controls.
We have promote responsible drinking.
collections have transformed from general also introduced new innovative ideas such as waste to specialist collections for glass, dry drawing external ambient air through a filter mixed recycling cardboard, paper, plastics into the cellar to maintain the required and cans and more recently the introduction temperature, therefore saving significant 4,816 of food waste recycling collections.
electricity costs in running cooling equipment during cooler times of the year.
Automated We collected around 2,596 tonnes of used The food collection service is currently in meter readings to better manage our water cooking oil for recycling to bio-diesel, saving operation in around 75% of Mitchells & Butlers consumption are also being trialled.
over 4,816 tonnes of carbon which is the locations with a full roll out planned for later equivalent of removing as much as 2,000 this year.
The food waste is sent for processing Energy recovery is playing an important role.
family cars from the road every month.
by the means of anaerobic digestion which Several businesses are now generating free converts the food waste into electricity.
hot water recovered from cellars and kitchens.
Furthermore, building insulation is widely This effective programme means there is little acknowledged as one of the most cost effective 81,000 other material for Mitchells & Butlers to dispose methods of saving energy.
From our initial trials We diverted 81,000 tonnes of waste of at landfill and meets our 80% commitment last year we have seen a significant reduction in from landfill.
Our goal of sending zero energy consumption levels and are therefore waste to landfill by 2013 will have both placing loft and pipe work insulation into a commercial and environmental benefits now further 300 businesses.
and in the future, and reflects the Companys innovation in managing waste.
Reducing energy consumption Our established energy management programme remains a key priority and we continue to focus on ensuring that energy efficiency and carbon reduction is a fundamental part of everyday business culture.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 05 Corporate social responsibility continued London 2012 Olympics Mitchells & Butlers is an official partner of England & Great Britain Hockey, with Harvester the organisations official restaurant partner.
Working with communities wide range of charitable purposes, including, Restaurants and pubs are the driving force for example, County Air Ambulance and the behind many communities across the UK.
Our employees have also been 200k Therefore we actively encourage our managers supporting Marie Curie through a series of Donated to charity by our brands and to contribute to their local area and place their fundraising challenges and have raised an employees this year.
businesses at the heart of these communities.
additional 12,000, plus our restaurants and pubs raised a further 25,000 by supporting Our annual Heart of the Community awards the charitys Great Daffodil Appeal in March, again showcased the great efforts our bringing our total donation for the third year staff and customers place in charity and of partnership to 62,000. community activity.
Our national winner, the Chaddlewood, Plymouth has worked The Princes Trust tirelessly over the last year to benefit a number For the first time we are also supporting The of charities.
Hosting fundraising evenings, Princes Trust and their work with helping young establishing a pub library, and identifying people in the UK.
Our Business Development with local and national causes, led to the Director, Kevin Todd, has become a member pub being named Heart of the Community of the charitys Retail Leadership Group.
group is formed of leading companies and individuals from the UK retail sector, primarily Charitable activities focused on raising funds and awareness of Collectively our employees and brands have The Princes Trust to help reduce the number raised over 200,000 this year for charity, of young people who are facing long-term continuing to demonstrate outstanding unemployment and social exclusion.
This years highlights include: In addition, Vintage Inns is supporting young following 18 months of national and local people directly through The Princes Trust Just fundraising challenges, the Sizzling Pubs the Job work placement scheme.
As part of the team have donated over 130,000 to programme the young people must complete a Help for Heroes: and two week work placement and Vintage Inns is Crown Carveries donated over 6,000 free offering opportunities in its restaurants across meals to past and present servicemen, as the UK.
part of their support for national Armed Forces Day 2011.
Olympic support As part of looking ahead to the London 2012 In addition, around 65,000 has been donated Olympics, Mitchells & Butlers is an official this year to a variety of worthy causes.
This partner of England & Great Britain Hockey, with includes a 25,000 donation to our corporate Harvester the organisations official restaurant charity partner, Marie Curie Cancer Care, partner.
The three year sponsorship seeks to and 40,000 of donations ranging from encourage thousands of people to start playing approximately 100 to 500 in each case to sport in their local clubs and to support British over 80 local and national charities covering a athletes at the London Olympics.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2011
