MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 35 Our approach to sustainability.
An approach which linksourcorporate andsustainability strategies.
k Sustainability review Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sustainability review Identifying the issues.
It was clear from our review that weve Sustainability at MITIE A new simplied, already made real progress in all these streamlinedstrategy We have already talked about the areas, but there is always room for significant commercial opportunities The challenge for all companies now improvement.
Our new sustainability opening up to us in the eld of and especially for those that aspire to strategy is designed to help us do this.
sustainability both through the leadership, as we do is to fully integrate Our goal is to ensure that our corporate comprehensive services under our sustainability into their corporate strategy, and sustainability strategies are mutually CarbonCare offering, and through the and the way decisions are made in supportive, so that over the long term the work we do every day to help clients the business, day to day.
This means work we do to improve our sustainability generate locally produced energy.
understanding and addressing strategic performance will create value for our sustainability risks and opportunities, and However we havent discussed how shareholders, and our efforts to make linking these to our commercial activities weve alsoworked hard to improve our MITIE a more profitable business will also and ambitions.
It means having robust own sustainability performance over the make itamore sustainable one.
In simple KPIsand targets that relate directly to our last fewyears.
We have always believed terms, itsabout fullling the sustainable sustainability strategy, and ensuring that that this makes good business sense part of our corporate strategy, which aims our reporting to stakeholders is transparent and have made it a priority accordingly.
to deliver stakeholder value through a and comprehensive about all of the most Weve improved our own environmental focus on sustainable and profitable longmaterial issues we face.
performance, and set ourselves term growth.
challenging targets in areas likeenergy and fuel use.
Weve started to engage Environmental data directly and more regularly with our 2010 % Change suppliers to help raise environmental full year against restated and social standards across our whole baseline Resource Units 2011 baseline supply chain.
Weve extended the Gas and eet transport fuel Tonnes of CO2e 44,248 42,779 3% Scope 1 quality and range of the training we Electricity Tonnes of CO2e 3,728 4,022 -7% Scope 2 offerto employees, and reinforced our Intensity Tonnes of CO2e employee 0.82 0.87 -6% commitment to diversity and inclusion.
Intensity Tonnes m 25.36 27.21 -7% Andweve continued to work actively in Energy and business Tonnes of CO2e 12,341 13,467 -8% Scope 3 the community, both through sponsoring car travel Upstream life-changing projects like our Real Water Tonnes of CO2e 8 9-11% Apprentice programme, and through Intensity Tonnes of CO2e employee 0.0001 0.0002 -50% encouraging our own employees to Created waste Tonnes 994 1,436 -31% volunteer in their own local Created waste Kg 17 27 -37% neighbourhoods.
per employee General waste Tonnes 606 989 -39% Were proud of what we have achieved, Recycled waste Tonnes 388 447 -13% but as sustainability has become more % Recycled 39% 31% 26% mainstream, the public and our own GHG Emissions data for 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011 in line with financial accounting period.
stakeholders have started to expect Notes: moreof us, both in the UK and around the In 2010, we participated in the global voluntary reporting programme, The Carbon Disclosure Project and were rated world.
With this in mind we have worked 76with a performance rating of B. actively with the Sustainability team at Transport: Despite an increase of 447 vehicles due to business growth, our average annual consumption per vehicle has dropped by just over 3% against our 2010 baseline.
 to understand Energy: Consumption has decreased by 13% against baseline primarily through the reduction in property portfolio the areas where we might improve, andimprovements in heating and lighting rets.
Although MITIEs energy emissions are not covered under the EU ETS, Climate Change Agreement or Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, we are committed to driving settingourselves a new, more focused down energy wastage through better management and the purchase of 100% renewable energy tariff electricity.
and demanding strategy going forward, Waste: The total amount of waste created has reduced by 31% resulting in a lower recycled percentage.
which will ensure that our business Water: Our water consumption had decreased by 11% against baseline through improved awareness and reduction inmanaged properties.
isresilient and sustainable not just 2010 data has been restated in line with improved management information and to include a full year of extrapolated economically, but in every other way.
Dalkia FM and EPS Ltd acquisition data to enable year on year comparison MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Six focus areas We are re-aligning everything we do on sustainability behind six key areas, which buildon the work weve already been doing and are directly aligned with our corporate strategy drivers.
Eachhas a clearly-dened objective, and performance measures, sothat we can track our progress and build momentum.
Acquisitions, ourseventh corporate strategy driver, has not been incorporated as a separate area offocus sincethe necessary sustainability considerations are carried out as standard during due diligence, and the relevant performance measures applied post integration.
Takingthis approach will allow us to focus our time and resources on those issues thatare of the highest priority, both to the business and to our stakeholders.
We want to build a reputation as a provider of world-class, sustainableservices that delivers exactly what our clients want.
Thats why our first two objectives are concerned with our servicedelivery.
If we achieve both of these goals well build morelong-term 36 partnerships, become more productive, and generate more value, bothforour clients and for ourselves.
37 Looking after our clients properly Operating contracts smarter Using fewer natural resources Underpinning our group strategy: Underpinning our group strategy: Underpinning our group strategy: Clients Operational efficiency Responsibility sustainability Client service is the heart of our A more efficient business is always Theres more we can do to raise business, and will drive our long-term amoresustainable one, which is why awareness of issues like climate change success as a company.
This objective wereworking hard to become more among our own people.
We need to covers everything related to customer productive, cut out unnecessary costs ensure every one of our employees relationship management, and how and push for all the suppliers we work understands what our stakeholders wemeet and we hope anticipate with to have high sustainability standards.
expect of us, and what they can do in theirneeds.
Challenging our own cultural practices their own everyday work to help reduce will make us more price competitiveand our environmental impact.
What does this mean in practice?
Well be surveying our key clients at What does this mean in practice?
leastonce a year, and learn as much Once again, this is an area where aswe can from the feedback we Well be using an employee actualrather than estimated data can receive, by integrating the results into communications campaign to make a real difference.
We can use ourgroup-wide customer relationship spearhead a reduction in fuel thisdata to help engage our own management system.
consumption across our whole eet people and target areas for quick wins.
Well also be promoting By doing this, we hope to achieve a Well also make ourown expertise the take-up of more sustainable business 15% reduction in office energy use by available to help ourclients to set up practices to all our team leaders 2013 compared with the 2010 baseline, programmes likeourpioneering and through new e-learning programmes, whichhas been restated to take into award-winning Real Apprentice and interactive workshops.
account acquisitions and other changes placement scheme, widening our to the business, and an overall recycling community footprint and nurturing Alongside this wellrun audits of at least rate of80%.
relationships at the same time.
40 major suppliers every year, and will expect all of them to meet or exceed Were also encouraging the useof ultrathetargets we set within a 12-month low emissions, zero-emission, and hybrid period.
Environmental issues are vehicles in our eet, andhope to see a particularly important here, so one further reduction inour average car eet ofour first objectives will be to identify emissions to 135gCO2 per km in the next any particular climate change risks and year.
Atthe same time, well work more carbon emission hot spots in our supply actively with our suppliers to reduce chain, and set a baseline against which packaging waste, targeting our top we can measure future performance.
veoffice suppliers as a first priority.
Wealsoaim to establish the percentage of suppliers signed on for paperless The next two objectives are closely communication and to improve on that related.
Our own environmental objective position going forward by early 2012. isone of the most important ones for us, and an area where we believe we can make a significant impact.
Like many other businesses, we can do more toimprove our own environmental performance: unlike many businesses wecan help our clients do this as well.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sustainability review Doing more for our clients Nurturing our peoples talent Enabling people to work safe, Underpinning our group strategy: withless, wherever they are andgo home safe People Underpinning our group strategy: inthe world Risk Underpinning our group strategy: New markets What we do for ourselves, we can also We want to offer our clients the best This sounds simple enough as an idea, dofor our clients.
Sustainability will be service in the market, and we can butgiven the complexity of our business, anincreasingly competitive advantage onlydothat if we have the best people.
and the sophisticated technical services for us going forward, as our clients One way well be doing this is by setting many of our people provide, it can be looktous to help them improve their ourselves the specic goal of recruiting, achallenge ensuring that every working performance and cut their costs.
retaining and motivating our people area is as safe as it can possibly be.
Our aim better than any of our peers.
We want is to be even better at doing that.
allour people to full their utmost What does this mean in practice?
Our innovative low carbon and potential, and support that through environmental technologies are some One of the most effective ways to formaltraining and development, ofthe best in the market, and no-one improve health and safety performance plusopportunities to develop their else offers such a complete or integrated inany business is to share the lessons personal skills through volunteering.
We want to grow this area of learned from previous incidents What does this mean in practice?
our business and really capitalise on this thosethat happened, those that expertise.
Well begin by assessing how Earlier in this report we talk about werenear-misses, and those that were well our actual and potential clients ourbusiness goals for 2012.
One way were understand our green capabilities, tomeet these challenges well need doing this is by providing a new incident andthen set ourselves targets to grow tohave outstanding leaders across the management platform that will enable the business from there.
Well reinforce business, so management development more effective measurement of a better this by ensuring all our employees will be especially important over the range of health and safety-related KPIs.
arefully aware of what we can do next year.
This will include identifying Another is by implementing a new forclientsin this increasingly important theroles where succession planning approach to assessing the root causes area, both in the UK and abroad.
iseither an imminent need or a ofincidents, and we aim to apply this particular challenge.
thinking to all major and high potential incidents that occur.
The next objective relates to our own Its also vital that all our people people, who have always been our understand exactly whats expected Well also be launching the third realcompetitive advantage, and the ofthem, both as individuals and as phase of our health and safety risk reason for our success.
This is why well management leadership programme, berefreshing our performance which is all about ensuring that the most management framework, and aligning senior people in the business lead by it even more closely with our core values.
example when it comes to safety and Well be strengthening ourinternal well-being at work and further embed engagement programme, establishing this focus culturally in the business.
The a core set of measures across MITIE so programme will run in tandem with the we understand the road ahead and latest Work Safe Home Safe!
campaign, settingappropriate targets to achieve which raises awareness of the specic complete reach across the group.
hazards our people mightencounter on Wellalso encourage people to take a daily basis of the expected behaviours part as volunteers in a wide range of required and to stay safe on the job.
activities, whether its supporting our regional charities fundraising efforts orgetting stuck into our three new biodiversity community projects.
You can read more about what were Last but definitely not least, our sixth doing in all of these areas and see our objective is in the area of health and latest performance data at: safety.
We have a proven track record mi mit ti ie.
com e. com sus sust tainabili ainabilit ty y20 201 11 1 inthis area, both on our own account, and in the work we do for clients.
Fewcompanies have the extensive expertise we do in the management, mitigation and elimination of risks in the workplace.
It is without doubt one of ourgreatest strengths.
