Sustainable development review TM At Mondi, we recognise the need to integrate sound principles Mondi is committed to FSC certi cation of all our owned, governing sustainable development into our decisionleased and managed forests in Russia and South Africa: to making, business practices and reporting.
In addition to this not procuring any wood from illegal or controversial sources: TM integrated report we have published a succinct sustainable and to certifying all mills to CoC standards from FSC, PEFC development review that focuses on our material issues, and a or a credible alternative.
comprehensive sustainable development report, both available Mondis Stambolijski mill in Bulgaria is the only mill without online at www.
In this section, a CoC certi cate.
However, controls were implemented to we provide a summary of the former to give the reader a concise ensure that wood at Stambolijski was procured from nonoverview of how Mondi is addressing its material sustainability controversial sources.
We are planning to certify Stambolijski issues.
For more details on the scope and boundary of by 2013. our sustainable development reporting, please refer to the sustainable development report.
In 2011, a total of 61% of wood supplied to our processing TM plants was FSC or PEFC certi ed.
Our commitment of 60% Three principles fide ne our approach to sustainable was already reached in 2010.
The uncerti ed balance met the development reporting: TM TM FSC Controlled Wood Standard FSCSTD-40-005 V. 2 we recognise that our reporting is of interest to and must or PEFC Mandatory Guide for the Avoidance of Controversial take cognisance of a broad range of stakeholders: Timber.
we focus on reporting on those issues that are most important to the business, identi ed through a risk-based Responsible forestry approach that includes safety and health, the environment, For Mondi, responsible, sustainable forestry means and people: and consistently considering the productive capability, biological we believe that it is important for us and our stakeholders integrity and community needs of the forests that we own and to understand our strategy and performance in the context manage.
Our approach is guided by extensive stakeholder of both our industry and our performance.
engagement, policy development, and effective management.
The six material sustainability issues that have been identi ed Mondi owns or leases 307,000 hectares of land in South and are reported on below are: Africa, and leases and manages 2.1 million hectares of mainly 3 softwood boreal forests in Russia.
In 2011, 4.6 million m securing access to sustainable bre: of wood was harvested from Mondis owned or managed maintaining our licence to trade: forests.
Our annual sustained yield or allowable cut is understanding and minimising our contribution to 3 1 estimated to be about 8 million m or 47% self-suf ciency.
climate change: recognising concerns regarding biodiversity: The total amount of wood used by Mondi in 2011 was 3 3 16.8 million m, of which 10.3 million m 61% was certi ed safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and contractors, TM 3 to FSC PEFC standards 2010: 15.7 million m, of which and securing key talent and skills: and 3 TM 9.5 million m 60% was certi ed to FSC PEFC standards.
increasing the eco-ef ciency of our products.
Forest plantations currently occupy 5% of global forest In addition to the six material sustainability issues outlined cover but supply 40% of global commercial wood and above, the ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty, coupled bre requirements.
Though these forests provide important with the competitive environment in which we operate, do economic and ecological value, they can also incur signi cant pose inherent risks to the business and we address these environmental and social costs if poorly managed.
Sustainable risks in detail in this report.
plantation forests are those that are managed for sustainable and or increasing yields, supported by intensive breeding Securing access to sustainable bre programmes, based on a wide genetic base, carefully situated Securing access to sustainable bre in the short, medium in the landscape to maintain functioning ecosystems and and long term is the most signi cant sustainability risk facing biodiversity, and offering protection to HCV areas.
This issue is mitigated through the sustainable Mondis plantation forests are managed sustainably, and have management of our resources and assets.
Seeking certi cation 1 In terms of reporting on wood self-suf ciency, we have reported a slightly At Mondi, meeting the requirements of sustainable forestry different gure in this review compared with page 14 of this integrated report, as this review covers all the activities of our global production practices is a business imperative: from the responsible operations in which we hold a minimum 50% shareholding or over which management of our forests through to the procurement of we have operational control, whereas in this integrated report joint ventures our wood and bre through the supply chain.
34 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 34 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
In addition, none of the tree species in Mondis forests are classi ed on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature IUCN Red List of Threatened Species as vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered.
Global issues around boreal forests include illegal logging: felling of intact pristine forests and other HCV areas: and felling in a way that does not mimic the natural dynamics of the boreal system, a necessary condition for maintaining biodiversity.
Mondi restricts or prohibits commercial forestry in HCV forests and is also involved in an ongoing, multistakeholder HCV process with the Russian NGO, Silver Taiga: WWF: the Russian state: Greenpeace and local communities to identify and protect HCV pristine forests.
Retaining land access in South Africa In South Africa, some 125,061 hectares or 49% of Mondis total land holdings are subject to 82 land claims.
These land claims stem from a complex legacy of stateled forestation and forced state removals of indigenous peoples, subsequently redressed under post-apartheid South African law.
Mondi is committed to playing a positive role in meeting the speci ed land reform targets, while establishing sustainable solutions in partnership with the new landowners, and minimising land transfer to alternative uses to 15%.
To date, 11 Mondi land claims have been settled, with 19,200 hectares transferred to community bene ciaries: an agreement regarding the settlement of 32 claims in KwaZulu-Natal has been reached: and 39 claims remain outstanding in Mpumalanga.
Mondis innovative model ensures that communities gain ownership of the land and derive a sustainable income from it, while at the same time Mondi secures a sustainable bre supply.
Mondi considers postsettlement support to be an essential element of developing successful community forestry businesses.
Maintaining our licence to trade Mondi recognises that our compliance with regulatory requirements works hand-in-hand with our socio-environmental licence to trade, which requires the acceptance and co-operation of a broad range of stakeholders.
This licence needs to be earned through constructive multi-stakeholder engagement, consistent delivery on our commitments, and a net positive bene t by Mondi to society.
Our approach in this regard includes an active involvement with industry bodies, NGOs, scienti c institutes, governments and others in understanding the global, national and local High conservation value forest, Russia socio-economic and environmental imperatives, and our ability to leverage our role in these forums.
Mondi Group 35 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 35 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 35 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Sustainable development review continued aim is to ensure that CEPs deliver a net social and economic Voluntary standards and third party certi cation advantage as a result of our activities.
The adoption of voluntary standards plays an important role in the development of internal skills and resources, Corporate social investment monitoring and validation, and in our drive for continuous CSI involves contributions whose bene ts exceed those improvement.
Examples here include our adoption and TM directly associated with our business activities.
CSI initiatives implementation of ISO14001, OHSAS 18000 and FSC, and are identi ed and developed during the CEP planning process, our support for the United Nations Global Compact UNGC.
through consultation with local communities.
In this way, we In 2011 Mondi was recognised as an advanced level reporter ensure that we invest in those programmes that are most by the UNGC.
Our sustainable development management relevant to the needs of our employees and the communities system SDMS has been developed in line with the AA1000 in which they live and work.
APS standard, and incorporates materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness and responsiveness.
External certi cation and During 2011, Mondi contributed some E17.3 million towards assurance, complimented by rigorous internal assurance, charitable donations and CSI projects 2010: E12.6 million.
Addressing human rights Safeguarding our social licence Mondis Code of Business Conduct, is based on a number We strive to make a real and lasting contribution to the of voluntary codes.
While not legally binding, these codes of communities in which we operate, both through CEPs and conduct, principles, and guidelines are raising expectations direct and indirect economic contributions.
We engage on a within the public about socially responsible business.
In sustainable basis with local communities in close proximity particular, the Group subscribes to the Universal Declaration to and directly affected by our operations, building mutually on Human Rights and is committed to the: bene cial relationships that enhance capacity and improve UN Norms on the Responsibilities of Transnational quality of life.
Corporations and Other Business Enterprises with Regard In South Africa and Russia, in particular, our community to Human Rights: development initiatives focus on education and training: UNGC advanced level reporter : local economic development: poverty alleviation: health care, Fundamental Rights Conventions of the International environmental education and rehabilitation: and sports and Labour Organization: recreation.
In South Africa, special attention is also paid to OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises: and the HIV AIDS pandemic, living conditions, and livelihood opportunities for the rural poor, including forest sector workers Voluntary Principles of Security and Human Rights.
and their families in forestry areas.
The principles enshrined in the above are embodied in our policies, systems and practices, and ensure the provision Effective community engagement of a fair, safe and healthy workplace for our employees and SEAT processes are used as a basis for the identi cation, contractors, free from discrimination, harassment or abuse.
monitoring and management of an operations social and We encourage our suppliers, customers and business economic impacts, and to improve our social performance in partners to work in accordance with these principles.
They involve a wide range of internal and external stakeholders.
All our socially material operations must Developing smarter, more responsible products undertake a SEAT process every three to five years.
Smaller Mondis approach to product stewardship involves actively operations undertake simpler reviews of socio-economic managing the social, environmental, and safety and health impacts, opportunities and risks using the principles outlined impacts of all our products throughout their life cycles.
in the SEAT process and through their CEPs.
Responsibility for individual products and customer The SEAT process is currently under review to ensure that relationships is decentralised across the Group to ensure it remains relevant to Mondi operations and assists in the that the needs of our markets are identi ed and met.
development of sustainable community projects.
A specialist Group-level team, the product stewardship network, guides our product responsibility practices under CEPs are in place at all our material operations and assist the principles advocated by the Life-cycle Initiative set out us in maintaining constructive dialogue, so that communities in the United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP.
may raise any concerns which can, in turn, be addressed.
Mutually acceptable monitoring mechanisms, developed For more information, read about Mondis Green Range, our in collaboration with local communities, monitor the  paper and packaging products, at effectiveness of our community engagement.
36 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 36 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 36 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM and academic institutions to improve our understanding of Reducing the environmental footprint of plantation water issues.
our products Signi cant work has been undertaken to address the In our forests, buffer zones for the protection of riparian and environmental impacts of our products: in particular, to wetland areas are strictly adhered to and form an important improve energy and water ef ciency at our pulp and paper component of our HCV areas set aside for protection of water plants, and to accelerate our reductions in CO e emissions.
Based on natural bres using renewable resources, all of Mondis paper-based products are recyclable, and Understanding and minimising our approximately one third of our bre-based products are made contribution to climate change from recycled bre.
In 2011 we consumed 1.5 million tonnes The ability of forests to absorb and store CO is indicative of recovered bre 30% of our total pulp consumed.
2 of the role they play in counteracting or moderating climate change.
Sustainably managed forests maintain tree growth Focus on water conserving a scarce resource and optimum levels of CO uptake, helping to reduce the Water is a scarce resource on a global scale and Mondi, 2 level of CO in the atmosphere.
In 2011, Mondi sustainably as a signi cant user of water throughout the life cycle of 2 managed around 2.1 million hectares of carbon-neutral our products, is committed to its responsible use, and to boreal forests and 307,000 hectares of plantation forests, the appropriate handling of any risks to operations and with an avoidance of about 4.1 million tonnes of CO e communities related to water scarcity.
2 2010: 4.1 million tonnes of CO e. 2 Mondi carried out detailed water impact assessments WIAs TM at its forestry operations in 2011 to assess any medium Around 61% of our wood supply comes from FSC or or long-term threats to the business, particularly in waterPEFC-certi ed sources and we have the potential to supply 1 stressed South Africa.
The WIAs established that there is 47% of our wood requirements.
Although Mondi fells trees, we are not party to deforestation.
For every tree that is felled no signi cant threat due to the location of Mondis South in our plantation forests, at least one other is planted.
Some African plantations on the wetter, eastern side of the country.
32 million new trees were planted by the Group in 2011, The conclusions of the WIAs have been discussed with third including 2 million in our boreal operations.
In our natural parties to ensure they are comprehensive, and have been boreal forests, felled areas are left to regenerate naturally and appropriately benchmarked to assess materiality.
supplemented where required with plantings.
Mondi is not Water footprint involved in illegal logging.
During 2011, Mondi calculated its water footprint at a Group Mondi is cognisant of the risk of climate change to our forestry and operational level using the methodology described in the operations, and to our forest-dependent communities, and Water Footprint Assessment Manual published by the Water has various strategies in place to mitigate potential risks, Footprint Network.
A products water footprint is fide ned as including water availability, oods, harvesting and the invasion the amount of fresh water needed to produce it, and is split of new species.
into green, blue and grey water.
3 In 2011, Mondis total water input was 309 million m Compliance 3 2010: 311 million m. The majority of Mondis European operations fall under the European Unions Emissions Trading Scheme, which has Preserving wetlands published benchmarking targets limiting the CO allowances 2 The stewardship of wetlands is important to Mondi.
Wetlands of European paper and pulp producers.
In South Africa, and the ecosystem services they provide play a vital role Mondi acts in compliance with the South African National in water regulation and puri cation, biodiversity protection, Environmental Management: Air Quality Act, which has tourism, grazing, subsistence agriculture, and are a source of requirements for the reporting of industrial greenhouse gas food and plant materials for rural communities.
The impact of GHG emissions and mitigation plans.
land use on water sources, including wetlands, is an important Carbon performance component of our resource management practices, and these We report on our GHG emissions in accordance with the issues inform our responsible water use practices.
In 2011, our direct scope 1 Our sponsorship of the Mondi Wetland Programme and the Group-wide GHG emissions amounted to 4.45 million tonnes Mondi Ecological Network Programme MENP facilitates CO e 2010: 4.48 million tonnes CO e from our material 2 2 the development of solutions for wetland conservation operations and 0.079 million tonnes from our converters, while and the enhancement of biodiversity through ecological 1 networks.
We also actively engage with and support NGOs Please refer to footnote 1 on page 34.
Mondi Group 37 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 37 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 37 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Sustainable development review continued our indirect scope 2 emissions from purchased energy were and to draw together expertise from the elds of science, 1.11 million tonnes CO e 2010: 1.41 million tonnes CO e economics and policy to enable practical responses.
As a 2 2 from our material operations, and 0.12 million tonnes from our core member of the WBCSD Ecosystems Focus Area, we converters.
Our indirect emissions scope 3 from transporting have identi ed our dependence and impact on ecosystems our products and raw materials, employee commuting, and are piloting aspects of the economics of ecosystems in business travel and raw materials reported for the first time catchment areas in South Africa.
1 amounted to 2 million tonnes 2010: 0.34 million tonnes.
Ecosystems, biodiversity and forestry Customers are increasingly interested in carbon neutrality Our forestry practices have an impact on ecosystems and and demand climate-friendly products with a reduced carbon their regulatory climate and water regulation, ood control, footprint.
Since 2010, we have provided customers with waste disposal and provisioning services fresh water, bre, detailed product carbon footprints, including a computerfood.
Through our ecosystem management plans, Mondi based product carbon footprint calculator, based on the works to identify and preserve HCV ecosystems such as 10 principles of the Confederation of European Paper Industry indigenous forests, wetlands and grasslands and, in some CEPI, for all our products.
cases, restore degraded and vulnerable ecosystems such as indigenous forests, wetlands and grasslands.
Pursuing energy self-suf ciency Energy security is a global concern and the current, largely Mondi has been involved in some of the early, pioneering work fossil-fuel based energy situation is unsustainable.
Forest on ecosystems, evidenced in our participation in the South biomass provides a potentially vast source of renewable energy.
African governments 20-year Grassland Programme and the Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife Biodiversity Stewardship Programme, Mondi is actively increasing the biomass content for energy and we actively encourage other landowners and interested generation as an alternative to fossil fuels at our mills.
This has parties to do the same.
As a result of these efforts, two of enabled a number of our operations to be completely energy Mondis areas in South Africa have been registered as private self-suf cient and net green energy providers.
The proportion nature reserves, and the largest part of Mondi SiyaQhubeka is of our renewable energy to overall energy usage increased incorporated in the iSimangaliso World Heritage Park.
In 2011, we saved CO e 2 emissions of around 249,000 tonnes through the sale of green We do not convert natural forests, wetlands or protected electricity, heat and fuels: the use of recovered bre: and the areas into plantations.
In addition, the conversion of substitution of natural gas with biogas.
grasslands or degraded agricultural lands is subject to an environmental impact assessment EIA and a national multiThe use of renewable raw materials has resulted in a 15.6% stakeholder licence application procedure in order to ensure reduction in speci c energy consumption and an absolute e adequate protection of water resources and biodiversity, CO reduction of around 1.4 million tonnes.
We set aside land under our Recognising concerns regarding management for conservation purposes, with at least 25% biodiversity 77,000 hectares of our land in South Africa and 23.5% 495,000 hectares of our land in Russia being set aside for Mondi recognises that biodiversity is a signi cant concern on conservation in 2011. which industry, including forestry, can have a negative impact.
We believe that our business practices, our engagement Preserving high conservation value areas with global bodies, and our investment in research and We recognise our responsibility to conserve our HCV natural development, enable us to make a positive contribution to resources and, where possible, to help restore ecosystems maintaining biodiversity in the natural forests and developed that have been damaged by our or other historical activities.
landscapes in which we operate.
We are engaged in partnerships to identify, classify and Mondis thinking is aligned with the findings of The preserve forests and other ecosystems designated as HCV Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity TEEB study, an areas owing to their ecological or social signi cance in both international initiative to promote the economic bene ts of South Africa and Russia.
ecosystem services and biodiversity: to highlight the growing Mondi supports the HCV Resource Network, a global network costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation: which promotes a practical, consistent approach to HCV 1 methodology.
The adoption of the HCV concept by a number In 2010, emissions from raw materials and their transport were not calculated.
For more information about the scope and boundary of our of agricultural bodies serves to promote the use of HCV carbon footprint and the breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, beyond the forestry sector, and has important implications for see the online sustainable development report.
We have reported our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in compliance with ISO14064-1: 2006. global conservation.
38 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 38 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 38 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM Mondi SiyaQhubeka Forests is our agship for HCV conservation at our South African operations, while in Russias Komi Republic we actively support and participate in a multi-stakeholder process in the identi cation and protection of some of the last remaining HCV-intact forests in Europe.
Five of these HCV-intact forests have been identi ed in the process, one was granted protection status in 2011 and we are supporting the process to gain protection for the others.
New generation plantations New generation plantations NGP are intensively managed forest plantations that maintain ecosystem integrity, protect HCV areas, are developed through effective stakeholder participation processes, and contribute to economic growth and employment.
The WWF NGP Project, of which Mondi is a participating member, is aimed at developing and promoting sustainable forestry solutions for forestry plantations, and promoting management frameworks that create good environmental, social and economic results.
Mondis SiyaQhubeka Forests in KwaZulu-Natal is one of a number of global best practice case studies.
Safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and contractors, and securing key talent and skills For Mondi to succeed as a global organisation, we need a skilled, trained and committed workforce, the members of which are able to undertake jobs safely and productively, and are empowered to ful ll their potential.
Safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and contractors We recognise that our employees work in potentially dangerous environments where hazards are ever-present and must be managed.
We believe that all incidents are preventable and that we must learn from experience.
Our ultimate goal is to achieve zero harm in the workplace through an interdependent culture that views the responsibility for safety and health as one shared by all employees.
The safety commitments we set for 2011 were, regrettably, not met with two fatalities at our operations during the year one in the US and one in South Africa.
An integral part of our systematic approach to safety is the Nine Safety Rules to Live By, which are applied across the Group.
1 Safety data includes all employees and contractors, with the exception of service suppliers such as catering, of ce cleaning or telecom work and management consultants.
All safety incidents are included within the scope of our reporting except those incidents where Mondi has been Sustainable forestry, South Africa unable to or inhibited from enforcing its safety standards on contractors.
In 2011, two such incidents occurred, including a fatality.
Mondi Group 39 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 39 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 39 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Sustainable development review continued Safety communication sessions and safety committee providing information on a regular basis and facilitating meetings, involving management, employees and contractors, feedback so that the views of employees can be taken into are conducted at all operations.
Language barriers in South account in the decision making process.
Africa are overcome using trained facilitators.
Thorough Mondi also provides employment for a signi cant number of investigations follow every safety incident, the findings of which, contractors, both at its mills and forestry operations.
In 2011, as well as applicable action plans, are shared across the Group.
an average of 18,000 contractors were employed.
Efforts to manage, mitigate and address the Groups two major process safety risks the operation of black liquor recovery Embracing diversity boilers and the possibility of res and explosions have been Mondi is committed to the fair treatment of all employees, made, and addressing the process safety risks will remain a irrespective of origin, race or gender.
To this end, we comply focus area in the forthcoming years as well.
with the employment requirements of the countries in which we operate.
We recognise that in South Africa, where Our occupational health systems vary between operations employment equity is entrenched within legislation, there and regions, as do speci c health stressors.
Preventing are historical imbalances that need to be redressed in the noise-induced hearing loss by reducing exposure to workplace.
For this purpose, we have structures in place to excessive noise and ensuring the correct use of personal monitor progress and assist us in adhering to the law.
We protective equipment, remains a key focus area.
Operations provide equal opportunities to men and women and ensure are encouraged to host health days for employees, in which that our policies and practices re ect this.
various medical practitioners and health care providers participate, providing health care monitoring services.
At the end of December 2011, 20% 2010: 20% of employees were women and 10% 2010: 20% of our Dealing with HIV AIDS in South Africa 1 managers were women.
The HIV AIDS pandemic continues to cause illness and deaths amongst employees and community members alike.
Employment practices Mondis policy and practices incorporate the encouragement We uphold the labour rights set out in the Fundamental of voluntary counselling and testing VCT, the prevention of Conventions of the ILO, ensuring fair employment practices discrimination, the management of HIV-associated illnesses at our operations.
Our remuneration practices are competitive and disabilities, measures to reduce the impact of HIV, and do not discriminate on any grounds.
All employees have antiretroviral treatment ART and disease monitoring.
the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Our HIV AIDS management system is based on World Health In South Africa and in many European countries, collective Organization WHO guidelines and is aligned to the ILO Code bargaining is enshrined within legislation.
of Practice on HIV AIDS and the World of Work.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully To ensure that employees, contractors and their families have considered.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, access to medical care, we have supported three mobile every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the clinics to provide VCT and primary health care to community Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
members in our remote forestry areas.
We also provide critical It is Mondis policy that the career development of disabled vaccinations to children from the surrounding communities.
persons should, as far as possible, be consistent with that of other employees.
VCT is freely available to all employees, and 1,100 employees made use of it in 2011.
In 2011, 40 employees participated in We aim to reduce the extent to which employees are exposed the ART programme 2010: 91. to high-risk and heavy manual tasks and to eliminate harmful ergonomic practices, particularly through the mechanisation of Securing talent and skills our forestry operations.
Mondi seeks to develop and empower our people to perform at their best and to grow within a dynamic culture.
While the Food security, or the lack thereof, remains a critical issue management of people is a line function, specialist human in rural South African communities and affects Mondis resources personnel at a Group, divisional and operational forestry contractors, who are mainly women.
This issue level provide knowledge, guidance and support to line impacts quality of life, long-term health, and employee safety, management as required.
As at the end of 2011, Mondi and is exacerbated by HIV AIDS.
Mondis Food 4 Forests provided employment for approximately 23,400 people programme first launched in 2008 ensures that employees 2010: 29,000 employees.
and contractors working in forestry operations receive and consume a nutritionally balanced meal during the course of Mondi provides information and engages with employees the day.
Some 1.8 million meals were delivered to around through a variety of channels including intranets, videos, 8,000 people in 2011. team briefs, team meetings, senior management presentations and addresses, employee surveys and 1 individual meetings.
Employee engagement is aimed at In 2011, the fide nition was applied more strictly across all operations.
40 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 40 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 40 2 2012 03 02 9:46 AM 012 03 02 9:46 AM are related to the combustion of fossil fuels and biomass in Training and development our onsite energy generation plants.
We have implemented Leadership development programmes, at Group and programmes to increase the ef cient use of our existing operational level, play an important role in the identi cation boilers and have introduced fide-NOx systems in the and development of talent within the Group.
puri cation of exhaust gases.
In 2011, our NOx emissions The Mondi Academy offers training in leadership, personal, amounted to 11,507 tonnes 2010: 11,219 tonnes while business and technical excellence.
our particulate emissions amounted to 1,536 tonnes in 2011 2010: 2,902 tonnes.
The planned modernisation of some of In 2011, 572 employees from our E&I Division participated in our boilers will result in a measurable reduction of SO and 2 training hosted in Austria, Poland and Russia.
The Mondi Academy in South Africa was of cially launched in Water February 2011 and 541 employees received training.
The recycling of water is an important concern for us in optimising our resource ef ciency.
Apart from being a critical Increasing the eco-ef ciency of resource, we also use hot water for the generation of energy, our products which has a signi cant economic impact on our operations.
Mondi is committed to minimising certain impacts our The water we discharge after production is treated and operations may have on the surrounding environment by tested to ensure it meets ecological and regulatory using our resources wisely and responsibly.
requirements, before being released back into the natural 3 In particular, we have undertaken extensive investment to environment.
In 2011, around 330 million m of water minimise the environmental impacts of our pulp and paper was discharged by Mondis operations.
Total water input 3 plants by improving energy and water ef ciency, reducing our amounted to 309 million m. water and carbon footprint, and reducing waste as well as Good progress was made in reducing chemical oxygen emissions to air and water.
In 2011, the As a minimum standard, we ensure that all our operations COD load amounted to 47,047 tonnes 2010: 48,756 tonnes.
comply with the environmental laws and regulations of the The improvement of waste water treatment at Swiecie and countries in which we operate.
No signi cant fines or nonSyktyvkar resulted in a reduction of COD by 5,000 tonnes monetary sanctions were imposed on Mondi as a result in 2011. of non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations during 2011.
Waste We carefully monitor all our process waste according to their The pulp for paper making may be produced from virgin bre types and routes and categorise them according to hazardous by chemical or mechanical means, or it may be produced and non-hazardous waste as well as treatment type.
Our main through the re-pulping of recovered paper.
In 2011, we waste streams are green liquor, boiler ash, lime mud, waste used approximately 1.5 million tonnes of recovered paper paper rejects and sludge.
Rather than disposing of waste in 2010: 1.8 million tonnes to produce pulp for paper and land lls, we recycle waste, re-use it or use it as a secondary newsprint this amounts to 30% of the total amount of pulp fuel for energy generation.
We have reduced our total waste-to-land ll volumes by Emissions to air increasing the recycling and re-use of materials.
This has also One of the biggest community concerns and one of our been done by making further use of renewable energy and major industry-speci c emissions is total reduced sulphur maximising the use of raw materials, such as carbon-neutral TRS compounds from our pulp mills.
While the scale of the biomass.
In 2011, our total waste to land ll amounted to concentrations emitted does not pose a health threat, trace 300,455 tonnes.
amounts can be enough to create an odour nuisance.
Sustainable development report In 2011, our TRS emissions amounted to 122 tonnes For further information on Mondis sustainable 2010: 134 tonnes with 209 complaints reported, mainly development policies, practices and reporting, visit relating to odour.
We have reduced our TRS emissions www.
The Groups 2011 mainly by collecting sulphur-containing emissions followed by sustainable development report is available in HTML and combustion in incineration facilities, such as recovery boilers.
an abbreviated sustainable development review is available as a PDF.
Case studies are also available to provide real-life SO is emitted mainly as a result of the combustion of 2 examples of Mondis approach to sustainable development.
Our SO emissions amounted 2 to 4,244 tonnes for the year.
While our SO emissions 2 remain high, mostly due to the increase in production, we 1 The 2010 gure includes Mpact with 91,000 tonnes.
This gure was continue to move from sulphur-containing coal towards restated to 48,756 tonnes in 2011 to provide a comparative basis renewable sources for energy generation.
Mondi Group 41 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 41 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
