Previous Page View Contents Next Page 24 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report The Group operates with an underlying awareness of its wider The Green Team have implemented a number of initiatives in responsibilities to society.
2011 to support this aim including the education of employees during a Green Week which highlighted the effects people have Communities and charities on the environment: ensuring that non-business critical equipment for example lighting is switched off at night: the The Groups Community initiative was launched in 2008 and has continued to develop during 2011.
The initiative is focused on installation of energy efficient lighting throughout the Groups main office: the replacement of PCs and printers with more energy providing support to charities located within a few miles of the Groups offices in Ewloe and so support is targeted primarily in efficient models: and the installation of recycling facilities within the Groups main office.
The Group estimates that during 2011 it Flintshire and Cheshire.
recycled on average over 50% of its commercial waste.
A volunteer group of employees meet each month to review requests for donations from charities and to allocate funds Employees according to agreed donation guidelines.
Employees are also The Group actively encourages employee involvement and active in researching and seeking out local good causes that the consultation and places considerable emphasis on keeping its Group can help support.
The initiative has been effective at employees informed of the Groups activities via formal half yearly harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of the Groups employees business performance updates, regular update briefings, regular to benefit the communities in which it operates.
team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, In 2011 the Group made 2,000 per month available for the and the circulation to employees of relevant information including.
This funding has been channelled via the corporate announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic donations to registered charities.
factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Over the course of the year the Group has supported 43 charities The Group has an established employee forum through which including: nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
Relate North Wales A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to Marie Curie Cancer Care ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and Flintshire Disability Forum that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
North Wales Super Kids Age UK Cheshire The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The Group Flintshire Deaf Childrens Society aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or employees continue to select and support a charity on an annual belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and the The 2011 Charity of the Year was Wales Air Ambulance.
The positive benefits to the Group.
The Group has a health and safety charity provides emergency air cover for individuals who face life policy which is communicated to all employees through a health threatening illness or injury via the operation of three helicopters.
and safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
Over the course of the year the Groups employees raised 13,454 for Wales Air Ambulance with the Group donating Supporting students 13,454, bringing the total donated to Wales Air Ambulance In order to build links between the Group and local schools and during the year to 26,908. colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to make work Employees have selected the Alzheimers Society as its 2012 placements positive, challenging and relevant to participants Charity of the Year.
The charity provides help and support to current studies and their future job prospects.
In 2011, the Group implemented a formal graduate recruitment The Group launched in October 2011 a volunteering scheme programme, through which the Group employed 5 graduates into through which the Group is supporting a total of 60 volunteering its IT and marketing teams.
The Group intends to continue this days per year to help those who are less fortunate and thereby programme in 2012 and beyond.
make a valuable contribution to our local community.
Environment The Group has established a team called the Green Team which comprises a volunteer group of employees who meet regularly and whose aim is to reduce energy and raw material usage throughout the Group to support environmental and financial performance.
