Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cORPORAte ResPOnsiBilitY the following section reports on Morgan Business ethics corporate responsibility crucibles Responsible Business Programme, the Audit committee is responsible for including the Groups policies, procedures overseeing the Groups ethics Policy, and is integral to Morgan and performance in respect of business ethics, reports to the Board on its effectiveness.
crucibles business and community relations and suppliers and customers.
subsequent pages cover the Groups core values statement and the Groups activities environment, health and safety ehs and ethics Policy oblige all employees to operate People.
in addition, Morgan crucibles 2011 in accordance with applicable laws and and programmes in ehs Report, planned for publication on the regulations and specifically prohibit the giving website in May 2012, will provide a more or receiving of bribes.
these policies apply, this area support each of comprehensive review of the Groups ehs so far as is appropriate, to Morgan crucibles the Groups five strategic performance in 2011. business partners, including contractors, agents, joint ventures and representatives.
priorities and address key Morgan crucibles approach to corporate the company also requires that no employee responsibility is encapsulated in the Groups shall suffer discrimination as a result of refusing risks and opportunities.
core values statement, which was first to pay or receive a bribe.
this report summarises published in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.
As the Group works to implement its strategic the Morgan crucible Responsible Business the Groups key corporate priorities, the core values statement provides Programme covers ethics and anti-bribery, the framework for the Groups policies, human rights, legal and contract risk responsibility policies programmes and procedures.
the statement management and, as noted above, and procedures, their is available on the website and applies now incorporates the Groups Anti-trust to all Morgan crucible businesses and compliance Programme.
during 2012 the implementation and their employees worldwide.
Group plans to further develop and implement the Responsible Business Programme and effectiveness which is, the governance structure for corporate to make further use of scenarios and dilemmas responsibility is aligned with the management to reinforce the existing training materials.
where appropriate, structure of the Group.
the Board is monitored using key accountable for corporate responsibility policies during the year the Group also updated and procedures.
the chief executive Officer, its whistleblowing procedures and a new performance indicators.
Mark Robertshaw, is the executive in charge third-party operated ethics hotline was of all corporate responsibility matters including launched globally.
the Morgan crucible internal and external stakeholders.
he is ethics hotline enables employees and other supported by the executive team with stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, functional heads having specific responsibility misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse for environment, health and safety, human of company assets or violations of Morgan resources and other areas.
Operational crucibles ethics Policy to report these implementation is delegated to the chief confidentially without fear of retribution should executive of each of the Groups divisions.
they feel they cannot use a local channel.
Corporate responsibility policies Customers and suppliers and procedures Morgan crucibles customer service strategy the Group continues to develop its is to respond quickly to changing customer Responsible Business Programme as a training demand, to identify emerging needs and to and education platform for Morgan crucibles ensure product availability, quality and value.
corporate  policies and the Group stays close to its current and procedures.
during 2011 the Programme potential customers, building long-term was extended to include the refreshed and relationships.
each division and Business updated Anti-trust compliance Programme.
implements appropriate sales and customer this was relaunched in 2011 with implementation account management structures with customer continuing into 2012. contacts and monitoring at senior level to help ensure that customer feedback, concerns and the Group provides employees with access opportunities are addressed.
to the Groups policies and related procedures and guidance notes.
Key policies and other relevant material are also published on the Group website and are required to be displayed on site noticeboards.
34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing Business ethics during the year the new third-party-operated output is accredited to isO 9001 and the the Board of Morgan crucible is committed Morgan crucible ethics hotline was launched Groups quality management systems help to ensuring that the companys policies globally.
the ethics hotline is promoted on ensure that Morgan crucibles products relating to business integrity are upheld.
the Groups intranet, through site posters and meet or exceed customer requirements.
the Groups ethics Policy is translated into other promotional materials in 17 languages.
Management of the supply chain is a key part appropriate languages for the companys sites the implementation of the hotline is of isO 9001 and isO 14001 accreditation worldwide.
the core values statement and complemented by training as part of the and includes supplier audits and screening ethics Policy are promoted to employees Responsible Business Programme.
globally, in particular through coverage in 360, hotline includes local free-phone numbers the Groups global employee e-magazine, in each of the countries in which the Group the Group engages with its customers, which is available in 13 languages.
Appropriate operates with real-time translators available as suppliers and other partners in mutually induction training is provided for new necessary.
the remit of internal audit includes beneficial ways and works with business employees in addition to training under ensuring the availability of the ethics hotline is partners who the Group believes will act in the Responsible Business Programme.
suitably promoted at site level.
accordance with Morgan crucibles policies and values.
Morgan crucibles support for the Morgan crucible Responsible Business Customers and suppliers the Universal declaration of human Rights, Programme is implemented via train-thethe chief executives of each of the referred to in the People section on page 42, trainer sessions for general managers and Groups divisions have specific responsibility commits the Group in respect of all those who compliance officers who then deliver for customers and suppliers and related work for it and those who have dealings with it, face-to-face training to relevant local and site policies and procedures within their including suppliers.
the face-to-face training is complemented respective divisions.
by e-learning modules available in up to Community 13 different languages.
in additional to quality and capability the Groups practice is to engage with local assessments, divisional supplier audits and communities in relation to matters of mutual the first phase of the Programme was screening cover matters such as the Un Global interest and concern.
At a local level, where completed during 2011. this covered human compact, health and safety, labour standards Morgan crucible often has long-established rights, contract risk management, ethics and including with regard to minimum age, roots and is frequently a major employer, anti-bribery with training delivered to over maximum hours, minimum wages, equal this helps to foster mutual understanding 1,900 relevant employees worldwide.
opportunities, grievance procedures and and credibility.
in addition, Morgan crucible human rights, anti-corruption procedures engages with local and national governments during 2011 the Groups Anti-trust and environmental management.
and agencies, both directly and through compliance Programme, which helps ensure professional bodies.
donations to political that the Group complies with anti-trust and Community parties or causes are prohibited.
competition laws around the world, was the implementation of Morgan crucibles updated and fully incorporated into the second community-related policies and procedures is Corporate responsibility policy phase of the Responsible Business Programme.
aligned with the management of the Groups implementation in addition to covering anti-trust, the second overall business and is focused at site level on the implementation of Morgan crucibles phase of the Programme reinforces and engagement and initiatives which are relevant corporate  policies refreshes the training provided in phase one.
to the local community and to the Groups and procedures is aligned with the overall business.
divisional and Group support governance structure of the Group.
the Anti-trust compliance Officers within each is made available where appropriate.
implementation of the Groups ehs and business report to the company secretary, as All charitable and other donations are people-related policies is covered in more Global compliance director, on the continuing fully accounted for.
detail on pages 37 to 43. effectiveness of the programme.
the Anti-trust compliance Programme includes independent Verification of ESG disclosures described below are some of the processes audits.
the results of the audits are considered the company secretary and the director for implementing and monitoring the Groups by the company secretary as Global of ehs work with independent external key corporate responsibility policies and compliance director who reports to the consultants to review and where appropriate procedures and those in respect of the executive committee and the Board on the verify the Groups esG disclosures.
this verification of Morgan crucibles environmental, effectiveness of the programme and on any process covers the environmental and social and governance esG disclosures.
health and safety-related non-financial key performance indicators included in this Report.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 35 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cORPORAte ResPOnsiBilitY continued As described on page 37, the Group has Customers and suppliers the Groups staff also support a variety engaged  llP Morgan crucible continues to benefit from of local and national initiatives and projects, to provide independent external assurance long-term relationships with many customers helping to raise funds and giving their time.
on selected environmental data for 2011. and suppliers, reflecting the effectiveness of the examples of employee activities include: their independent assurance report is set out Groups customer service and supplier-related on page 41. strategies.
some examples of the products and employees from the Morgan ceramics markets served are included on pages 6 to 19 Asia office took part in the singapore in addition, all Morgan crucible businesses of this Annual Report.
marathon in the 10km, half and full are regularly reviewed under the Groups marathon categories.
Funds were raised ehs compliance Audit Programme and those Community for a number of different charities including sites and businesses certified to isO 9001, during the year the Groups charitable the Autism Association and everyman, isO 14001, OhsAs 18001 and other donations were 194,744 2010: 250,229. the prostate and testicular cancer campaign.
standards have regular external audits.
the this is in addition to the time given and employees at the Morgan ceramics site in Group also uses external professional advisers donations made by Morgan crucible new Bedford, MA, UsA, continued their in relation to specific ehs matters as required.
tradition of community and charitable initiatives.
in 2011 they held a raffle to raise the Board considers that these procedures during 2011, Morgan crucible supported a money for the American cancer society, provide a reasonable level of assurance that number of initiatives at Group, divisional and participated in the salvation Armys Angel the Groups esG disclosures are free from site level.
the main emphasis of this support tag fund raiser and collaborated to donate material misstatement, whether caused by is to help disadvantaged young people and thanksgiving turkeys to the United ways fraud or other irregularity or error.
sponsor local community projects which hunger commission for the benefit of can also engage and involve employees.
needy members of the local community.
Corporate responsibility example initiatives include: A team from the Morgan ceramics site policy effectiveness in Ruabon, UK, organised a local fun run Business ethics the Group continued its three-year, to raise funds to support a colleague who Participation in the Responsible Business 60,000 programme to support the suffered brain damage.
Friends, family and Programme and implementation of the Army cadet Force Association AcFA colleagues all wore outrageous costumes site-by-site training are monitored at a Group Outreach Project.
Participants are required to achieve Morgan crucible continues to support the a 100% score in each e-learning module in joint Barnardos Outward Bound initiative order to pass.
which provides opportunities for young people to develop life skills at a centre in the Anti-trust compliance Programme is also Ullswater, UK.
subject to independent audit to confirm the nP Aerospace in coventry, UK, is a major continued effectiveness of the programme sponsor of the local Godiva harriers which, as noted above, is monitored by the athletics club and other local community company secretary with a direct reporting line and charitable initiatives and also supports to the executive committee and the Board.
the Army winter sports Association which creates the opportunity for many hundreds issues raised through the ethics hotline or via of soldiers to take part in winter challenges.
other channels are followed up by the director the Group also supported the British of Risk Assurance in consultation with the heart Foundation and a number of company secretary.
Further investigations may other sports and health-related charities be conducted through the Audit committee and appeals.
where appropriate, disciplinary action up to and including dismissal is taken and or additional guidance and training provided.
during the year 14 reports were received via the hotline from nine different countries, indicating that the whistleblowing facility is being used worldwide and in different cultures.
the Audit committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the ethics hotline and of the follow-up and investigation processes.
36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements enviROnMent, heAlth And sAFetY Morgan crucible is committed to conducting EHS Policy Morgan crucibles Group-level ehs all its activities in a manner which achieves the Morgan crucibles ehs Policy applies management processes include: highest practicable standards of health and Group-wide: it forms the basis for the safety for employees and others affected by executive and management focus and has the ehs compliance Audit Programme, its operations.
the Group is also committed been communicated across all sites within which is carried out by external ehs to minimising the impact of its business on the the Group.
the Policy is published on the consultants in europe and Asia and environment and to maximising the positive Groups website and in the annual ehs Report.
in-house resources in the Americas.
this environmental benefits of its products.
programme reviews the ehs management examples of Morgan crucibles products EHS Policy implementation at each site and helps ensure compliance which help enhance the environment-related Morgan crucibles ehs Policy forms the basis with local regulations and good performance and efficiency of the products of the Groups ehs management systems and management practice.
during 2011 the and operations of the Groups customers are processes.
it requires high standards of ehs ehs compliance Audit Programme was included in pages 6 to 19 of this Report.
this is implemented extended to cover the ehs management through risk assessment and the management systems and the ehs KPis reported by Morgan crucibles environment, health and and mitigation of identified risks to help provide each site.
All of the Groups manufacturing safety ehs Policy and implementation continuous improvement in ehs performance facilities are reviewed on a three-year programmes support the Groups five strategic in support of the Groups strategic priorities.
during 2011 25 sites were priorities and core values statement.
ehs audited and the target for 2012 is to audit performance has a direct and significant effect ehs performance is reported regularly 32 sites.
the audit reports are reviewed on operating performance and is therefore a to the Board by the chief Financial Officer.
by the director, environment, health key focus for operational management across the governance structure for ehs places and safety and by the divisional chief the Group.
the regular collection and responsibility for ehs performance on executives.
Action items are tracked reporting of ehs key performance indicators the chief executive of each of the Groups through a formal follow-up process.
KPis and the setting of ehs-related targets divisions, with each site having a point of Formal training as an integral part of the assists in the development and monitoring accountability.
the chief Financial Officer is implementation of the Groups ehs Policy.
of programmes to enhance the operational responsible for ehs Policy and performance this is undertaken at a divisional level performance and to reduce the impact of monitoring and the Groups director, according to business-specific risks and the Groups operations on the environment.
environment, health and safety provides opportunities with Group-level support Group direction, oversight and has and oversight.
For example, during 2011 this Report includes a summary of the responsibility for implementation of the Group the Groups ongoing training programme Groups ehs Policy and its effectiveness ehs programmes including: standards and in china focused on reinforcing the as demonstrated through its ehs KPis and procedures, review of the adequacy of ehs effectiveness of the ehs management programmes.
Further detail will be included resources across the Group as well as training, systems at each site.
in india substantial in the 2011 ehs Report to be published performance reporting and all assurance progress was made in the implementation on the Groups website in May 2012. processes.
during 2011, the Group has been of ehs management systems-related the ehs Report will also include case studies active in the recruitment of divisional ehs training and specific training in job safety to help demonstrate the Groups approach leaders in india and china, which has helped analysis was carried out at the sites.
improve the progress and standards of Monthly performance reporting against implementation of ehs management in the Group KPis by all Group sites.
data is subject to bi-annual review and challenge at Group level with reporting the Group recognises the need for high, of performance to the executive consistent and demonstrable standards in committee and the Board by the ehs governance and control.
As a result chief Financial Officer.
of this, ehs governance arrangements have been reviewed during 2011 and proposals for further enhancement and formalisation have been presented to the Board for adoption during 2012. in addition, as described below, the Group commissioned an external assurance process from  llP Pwc.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 37 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cORPORAte ResPOnsiBilitY continued enviROnMent, heAlth And sAFetY continued in 2011 environmental management the Group participates in a number of external in 2011 the Groups cO intensity was reduced 2 systems were in place at 93 sites worldwide, initiatives which help to benchmark policy by 5% compared to 2010 with performance including 38 major sites certified to isO 14001 effectiveness and progress, including: on track to achieve the target to reduce the 2010: 34 sites.
Four additional sites in india, cO emissions intensity due to energy use by 2 china and Japan achieved certification in 2011. during the year Morgan crucibles 5% over the two years 2010-12. energy intensity these new certifications are in addition to UK sites were accredited to the carbon was down by 6% compared to 2010. this was the ongoing programme of recertifications.
this certified that the achieved through increased efficiency at many All major production sites worldwide have UK businesses have measured, managed of the Groups energy-intensive businesses health and safety management systems in and reduced their carbon footprint.
driven by a combination of sales growth and place, with 15 sites certified to or working Morgan crucible has made filings in energy reduction programmes.
this 6% towards OhsAs 18001 2011:11. respect of the Groups UK facilities under reduction follows on from the 11% reduction the UK governments carbon Reduction achieved over the two-year period 2008-10.
EHS Policy effectiveness commitment energy efficiency scheme.
in absolute terms total cO emissions due to 2 the Group monitors the effectiveness of its the Group also participates in the carbon energy use in 2011 were some 432,900 tonnes ehs Policy through the ehs compliance Audit disclosure Project cdP.
the cdP is a against 417,200 tonnes in 2010. total energy Programme and the review of performance charity that assesses and ranks companies use was some 1,434 Gwh in 2011 against against a series of relevant KPis as is referred in the major industrial countries according 1,390 Gwh in 2010. the Group will be to above.
to their carbon-related reporting, seeking further reductions in energy intensity strategies, management and performance.
in 2012. the summary charts on pages 39 and 40 in 2011 the cdP Ftse 350 Report represent the Groups ehs performance, positioned the Groups performance waste intensity was down by 6% in 2011, covering 100% of production sites during as among the best of its peer group of ahead of the target to reduce waste intensity the year.
by 5% over the two years 2010-12. this was achieved through increased emphasis on waste environmental intensity KPis are reported Environmental performance management and reduction with an increase at constant currency, and, where necessary, wherever possible the Group works to in sales volume.
the proportion of total waste historic ehs data is updated to reflect changes minimise the impact of its business on the which was recycled was increased from 20% in reporting methodology and to ensure environment and to maximise the positive in 2010 to 21% in 2011 which is not on track year-on-year consistency.
environmental benefit of its products.
to achieve the target to increase recycling to 25% of total waste over the two years As noted above, in 2011 the Group engaged Morgan crucible sets two-year targets for 2010-12. the Group will increase its focus Pwc to provide independent external the reduction of the impact of its operations on this area over the coming year with assurance on the Groups cO intensity, on the environment, as measured by a view to increasing recycling rates, however, 2 energy intensity and water intensity using cO emissions, energy, waste and water performance in this area is highly dependent 2 international assurance standards.
the Groups 2011 performance is on the markets for recycled materials.
from Pwc is set out on page 41. in addition, an interim report against the current targets total waste in 2011 was some 45,100 tonnes a work-programme is underway with a view for the two-year period 2010-12.
Further in 2011 against 43,900 tonnes in 2010. to gain assurance for the Groups waste and details of the Groups ehs targets and lost time accident frequency data in future.
objectives will be included in the Group water intensity was down by 12% in 2011, 2011 ehs Report which is due for publication ahead of the target to reduce water intensity the overall verification of Morgan crucibles on the Groups website in May 2012. by 5% over the two years 2010-12. this environmental, social and governance improvement was achieved through a focus disclosures is further discussed on page 35. on reducing water use at the Groups more water-intensive businesses, combined with further reductions achieved through re-use and recycling of water at a number of sites and an increase in sales.
total water use 3 in 2011 was 2.80 million m, down from 3 2.91 million m in 2010.
38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CO intensity Energy intensity 2 Tonnes m revenue MWh m revenue # Waste intensity Water intensity 3 Tonnes m revenue m m revenue the 2011 cO intensity, energy intensity and water intensity information has 2 been subject to assurance by Pwc.
cO equivalent from all fossil fuels, including country-specific electricity.
2 c onstant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
# water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 39 2007 74 2007 494 2008 67 2008 469 2009 55 2009 403 2010 44 2010 416 2011 41 2011 394 2007 3,299 2007 1,641 2008 2,814 2008 1,563 2009 2,609 2009 1,362 2010 2,904 2010 1,385 2011 2,553 2011 1,306 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cORPORAte ResPOnsiBilitY continued enviROnMent, heAlth And sAFetY continued Health and safety performance Lost time accident Morgan crucibles long-term health and safety frequency objective is to have no accidents or injuries.
LTAs 100,000 hours in 2011 the Group continued to extend its accident prevention and training programmes with the objective of reducing accident numbers and the time lost per lost time accident.
Particular focus is placed on those sites with below-average performance.
the Groups health and safety KPis include accident frequencies and causes and related lost working time.
these are used to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety Policies and related systems on a monthly basis.
in 2011 lost time due to accidents and work-related illnesses as a proportion of Health and safety-related working time was down 9% to 0.10% of lost time working time.
the number of days lost was % of total working time down 4%.
the average time lost per lost time accident decreased to 22 days from 24 days in 2010. the frequency of lost time accidents across the Group was 0.57 per 100,000 hours worked 2010: 0.57. the number of lost time accidents was 129 2010: 123 with the number of hours worked up 6%.
Manual handling, cuts and abrasions remain the most common causes of accidents and the Group continues to address this, specifically targeting businesses with below-average performance.
Lost time per LTA Days per LTA lost time accident ltA : accident which results in one or more days lost time.
What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected data for the year ended 1 January 2012 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
What we did What our work involved the Morgan crucible company plc Morgan crucible engaged us we conducted our work in accordance with the international standard to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected performance on Assurance engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than data within the environment, health and safety ehs section of the Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
this standard Morgan crucible 2011 Annual Report for the year ended 1 January 2012 requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements the Annual Report.
and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
1 Selected Data Main procedures performed the 2011 performance data set out in the charts and related narrative Making enquiries of relevant Morgan crucible management.
on pages 38 and 39 of the Annual Report in respect of: evaluating the design of the key processes and controls for cO intensity managing and reporting the selected data.
2 energy intensity testing the selected data, on a sample basis, substantively water intensity at both an operational and corporate level.
Undertaking analytical procedures over the selected data.
Reporting criteria Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and the basis of preparation of the selected data is available under the documentation supporting assertions made in the selected data.
heading Reporting criteria on the ehs performance reporting page of Morgan crucibles website www.
com governance we believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and responsible-business  as at 15 February 2012. appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Responsibilities Morgan Crucible Morgan crucible is responsible for the contents of the Annual Report, including preparation and presentation of the selected data in accordance with the Reporting criteria, and implementation and maintenance of systems that support production and reporting of  LLP the selected data.
chartered Accountants london  LLP 15 February 2012 2 Our responsibility is to express an independent limited assurance conclusion based on the procedures described below.
1 Inherent limitations this report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data.
directors of Morgan crucible to assist them in reporting ehs performance.
the range of different, but acceptable, techniques used can result in materially different we consent to the inclusion of this report in the Annual Report to reporting outcomes which may affect comparability with other organisations.
assist the directors to demonstrate how they have discharged their responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in 2 Limited assurance we have sought to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to support our assurance connection with the selected data.
to the fullest extent permitted by conclusions.
A limited assurance engagement is restricted primarily to enquiries and law we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the analytical procedures.
the work is substantially less in scope than that undertaken for directors as a body and Morgan crucible for our work or this report save a reasonable assurance engagement, accordingly the level of assurance is lower than where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.
would be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 41 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cORPORAte ResPOnsiBilitY continued PeOPle Morgan crucible has continued to make good the Groups global human Resources Policy Total lost time progress through improvements in the financial provides an infrastructure of human resource % of working time performance of the business and realising activities that enables the business to attract, the benefits of streamlining the companys retain and engage people with the skills and organisational structure.
the creation of the capabilities to deliver its business plans and two divisions, Morgan ceramics and Morgan outperform the competition.
engineered Materials, has been supported by strategic recruitment of new talent, as well as Key to building and maintaining the trust and internal development of existing leadership respect of the Groups people and growing capability.
this has been particularly important their understanding and motivation levels to support enhanced growth opportunities.
is open, timely and factual communication.
these changes in the business have enabled the divisions communicate regularly through the Group to further enhance the positive employee forums, team briefs and divisional working environment for employees and create magazines.
the Group regularly requests new and exciting challenges all over the world.
feedback from employees on many different during this period the Group has continuously aspects of its business.
worked to develop the skills of individuals and the capabilities of the organisation as a whole demands on the business as a whole are to meet these challenges, as the performance continuously changing, and the Groups Employee turnover of the Groups people is critical to its success.
individual businesses are exploring different % per year business development opportunities as they the Groups people resource management evolve into new markets and industries.
performance is evaluated monthly, quarterly the Groups approach is therefore to develop and annually through the collation of key existing employee talent and recruit new performance indicators, which are summarised people into jobs that fit those business in the sections below.
requirements, at the time they are needed.
the Group reviews shortand long-term People Policies business needs on a regular basis and carries the Group supports the Universal declaration out succession planning and talent reviews of human Rights and the Groups human to identify any skill gaps.
whether recruiting Rights Policy commits the Group to protect internally or externally for a vacant position, the rights of everyone who works for it and all selection is based on many factors including those who have dealings with it.
the principles a candidates relevant education, work of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, experience, competencies and performance health and safety, freedom of association, record.
the Group does not unfairly discrimination, discipline, working hours and discriminate and it respects human rights.
compensation and the Policy is published on should existing employees become disabled, the Groups website.
the director of human the Groups policy is to provide continuing Training Resources reports to the chief executive employment and training wherever practicable.
hours per employee Officer and is responsible for the development of the human Rights Policy and related matters, For the business to achieve superior with the chief executives of each division performance there is an expectation that its having responsibility for policy implementation people need to perform at their very best.
the divisional the Group aims to support them through a chief executives report annually on their formalised performance management system implementation of the human Rights Policy.
cascaded through the businesses that focuses the Morgan crucible ethics hotline enables on setting clear results-based objectives, employees who are aware of or suspect issues directly linked to the strategic goals and annual under the Groups human Rights Policy to objectives of the business.
Providing people report these confidentially.
with the skills to perform at a superior level is also critical, and the Group sees continuous learning and professional development as a major investment in its future.
2010 data rebased 42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 2008 14.9 2008 14.2 2008 2.4 2009 12.4 2009 16.7 2009 2.7 2010 12.9 2010 13.7 2010 2.6 2011 13.3 2011 13.7 2011 2.9 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements the Group recognises and celebrates the the Group keeps employees informed about in pursuit of growing capability in the labour accomplishments of its people individually what is happening in other parts of the Group market, Morgan crucible continues to sponsor or as teams, and makes recognition awards through its global 360 e-magazine, which is annually the science, engineering & technology to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, and translated into 13 languages, including chinese.
student of the Year awards.
the Groups compensation the divisions continue to issue regular is proud to sponsor this event as it allows systems reward people who apply their divisional newsletters both electronically and high-calibre students to showcase their knowledge, skills and talents to support the in hard-copy formats.
in europe, the Group outstanding research work, and demonstrate achievement of business goals.
the Group has an established consultative arrangement the depth of ability of graduates in the UK.
in pays for performance in all its compensation that provides an arena for the exchange of 2011 the winner of the Best Materials student practices.
the total reward package includes relevant and appropriate information across Award was edward Pickering from cambridge a mix of base pay, variable pay and benefits.
the Group also held University.
the Group has also laid plans the Group establishes compensation levels its 15th annual european employee Forum in this year to increase the number of graduate that are both competitive and affordable to May 2011 where site representatives attended recruits in 2012, and has established a Morgan crucible.
the Group has the flexibility from France, Germany, hungary, italy, global approach to graduate recruitment to respond to changing market conditions the netherlands and the United Kingdom.
and competition for high-demand skills, while maintaining equity in salary ranges local business units have conducted employee People Policy effectiveness and pay levels.
surveys during the year according to the needs At the end of the year, Morgan crucible of local employee relations and team agendas.
Additionally, Implementation of the these have measured a range of issues the Group employs circa 1,000 people Groups People-related Policies relevant to the business units, including on short-term contractual arrangements in 2010 the Group launched its Responsible employee satisfaction and awareness of to provide the numerical flexibility for the Business Programme, a blended learning business objectives.
surveys of leadership Groups businesses to react quickly to programme focused on human rights, style and culture have also been conducted changes in market conditions.
anti-bribery and corruption, and contract risk at regional and divisional levels.
in 2011, the Group updated and the Groups geographic spread of people refreshed its existing Anti-trust compliance in 2011, the Group continued to make progress is as follows: 35% of employees in europe, Programme and fully incorporated this training with its online developing for Performance Middle east and Africa, 33% in north America, within the wider programme.
the system focuses on developing 4% in south America and 28% in the Rest of covers direct training of general managers and the skills of the Groups employees through the world.
Of these employees 75% are male.
compliance officers, utilising the Groups online performance management, goal-setting, training programmes in these areas and competency assessment and development lost time as a proportion of total working time providing them with the skills to cascade this planning.
was 2.9% 2.6% in 2010, with lost time due training through their respective parts of the to accidents in the workplace of 0.1% of total business.
this programme will evolve with in addition, the Groups businesses continue working time.
training hours per employee the changing demands of the business and to deliver local learning initiatives, to meet were 13.3 12.9 hours in 2010. the Groups regulatory frameworks around the world.
operational and local leadership needs.
employee turnover was 13.7% in 2011 All of the Groups businesses must complete 13.7% in 2010.
1% of the workforce was an annual certification process confirming their the Group has further developed its existing made redundant during the year with higher compliance with the Morgan crucible Policies.
approaches to the assessment of management levels of natural turnover coming from china capability and development.
there has been and Mexico where the labour markets are during the year Morganet, the Groups increased investment in management training exceptionally fluid.
intranet site, has grown to provide faster and and leadership development in both divisions, more efficient access to information from and across all regions.
A new approach to the during the year, 10 employees around the diverse sources across the globe.
in addition, assessment of capability and potential of senior world celebrated 40 years of loyal service the two divisions have developed their own management has been introduced.
with Morgan crucible, with 221 employees sites to facilitate more effective communication.
celebrating anniversaries of 20, 25 or 30 years service.
the Group is pleased by the number of employees who remain with the Morgan crucible for significant periods of their careers, and whose experience we have retained.
the average length of service of the Groups employees is 13.7 years.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 43
