Corporate responsibility Highlights For the next generation In 2010 11, the Mothercare group: Corporate responsibility underpins our core relationships, those we depend on today and in the future: joined forces with Save the Children to form a three-year global partnership entitled Born to Care.
The aim is to raise c ommunities parents and children: 1.75 million, over three years, to reduce childhood mortality t he people who work for us: around the world and lift children out of poverty in the UK: o ur suppliers who make and distribute our products: and achieved 8th place in The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For: t he environment.
launched a Global Code of Conduct Policy defining its By acting responsibly in the way we run our business we will behaviour in respect of: supplier relationships, Bribery Act secure our long-term success and fulfil our mission to meet the legislation and equal opportunities: needs and aspirations of parents for their children, worldwide.
strengthened its Responsible Sourcing Team in Asia by Our corporate responsibility strategy is focused on the recruiting three new employees at its Shanghai office: and four key areas listed above.
This report gives an overview of our activities in each of these areas over the last 12 months received the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of good and provides an update on our progress against the targets energy management and a fall in carbon emissions between we set in 2007.
Governance and targets The corporate responsibility steering committee is chaired jointly by Tim Ashby, the group general counsel and company secretary and Gillian Berkmen, our group brand commercial director.
Tim joined Mothercare this year replacing Clive Revett, following his retirement after 23 years of dedicated service to the Mothercare brand.
The steering committee reports directly to the PLC board and is supported by a small central team and external experts.
In 2007 08 we set seven targets to be achieved by 2013 published on www.
These targets and our current performance are shown in the table shaded blue.
Last year, we met both carbon targets ahead of schedule, driven in part by the efficiency gains we made integrating the Early Learning Centre and Mothercare operations and by the introduction of efficiency measures across our stores 2,300 and distribution centres.
Our objective to 2013 is to continue tonnes of waste efficiency improvements, counteracting the carbon increases 7,000 recycled last year from future growth.
parents-to-be - attended Baby 8.6m kwh th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual 8 energy consumption has in The Sunday Times reduced enough to power 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims 20 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 SCHOOL 218,783 Key performance indicators 2007 8 baseline 2010 11 performance 2013 target Progress against target Building energy use m kWh 71.2 62.6 Transport fuel used m litres 2.6 2.0 Transport mileage m miles 6.1 4.9 Carbon emissions tonnes 40,400 33,700 Of which: Buildings 33,500 28,500 -15% -15% Transport 6,900 5,200 -20% -25% Packaging used tonnes 11,500 Packaging per 100 kg, UK only 20 -40% Not available Solid wooden products from recycled or Forest Stewardship Council wood Not collected 50% sourced Not available Carrier bags used m, UK only 17.4 11.5 -50% -34% Recycled waste tonnes, UK only Not collected 2,300 75% recycled 70% recycled Total fundraising k 100 649 1,000 65% achieved Of which: Direct donations k 100 548 Employee fundraising k Not collected 101 Our data capture procedures for packaging and wood sourcing are transferring to specialist data companies.
Figures for our 2010 11 performance will be available from the autumn.
It is estimated that Mothercare stores usage is 60 per cent of the group total.
Communities parents and children These include our Baby & Me events which are held in our We believe that parenting and raising children is Parenting Centres for expectant parents, who receive the an essential foundation for the society we live in, latest advice and guidance on different aspects of parenting.
and that healthy babies, parents and families benefit These events have proved popular, with 7,000 parents-to-be us all.
We are committed to helping parents through the work attending since the series was launched.
we do providing education and information to parents in the Our Early Learning Centres host Playtime Tuesday.
At ten oclock community: our Born to Care Partnership with Save the Children parents bring their children along to join in the fun.
We believe and charitable donations made through the Mothercare that play is an important part of a childs creative development Group Foundation.
and have recruited playologists experts in play to conduct In 2010, Mothercare joined a select group of parenting brands trials at ten of our stores aimed at improving the link between chosen to be part of the Royal College of Midwives Alliance play and creativity.
It is a three-year arrangement working In addition, Gurgle.
com, our pregnancy and parenting website closely with the national midwifery organisation.
Since launch, 2,300 has created 23 local community groups around the UK, representatives of the college have been actively participating tonnes of waste enabling parents to establish their own support networks in our staff training and parenting events.
7,000 recycled last year and to strengthen relationships with our stores.
parents-to-be - attended Baby 8.6m kwh th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual 8 energy consumption has in The Sunday Times reduced enough to power 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims Mothercare pM lc o Atn hn eu rc aa l r re e p po lc rt A a n n n d u a alc R ce op un otrt s 2 20 01 11 1 | | 2 21 1 SCHOOL 218,783 Corporate responsibility continued Charitable Giving Mothercare Group Foundation Mothercares total direct giving to charity last year The Mothercare group supports the Mothercare was 548,161.
The largest donation made was to Group Foundation an independent grant-making the Mothercare Group Foundation, with further body focused on projects and charities helping families and substantial gifts to the Foundation for the Study of Infant Death babies.
The Foundation is an independent charity with trustees and Cancer Research UK, which generate donations from drawn from the current Mothercare board and former board a range of products sold in our stores.
In 2010 11, the Foundation made 218,783 in grants.
In October we announced a three-year global partnership Significant donations were: with Save the Children.
Called Born to Care, it aims to raise 50,979 to the Wellbeing of Womens Baby Bio-Bank project, 1.75 million over three years, to support Save the Childrens funding the salary of a senior research nurse.
The project EVERY ONE Campaign to improve newborn and child survival is researching the most common complications occurring around the world and its work to eliminate childhood poverty in pregnancy: in the UK.
To start the partnership Mothercare made an initial donation of 50,000, to help fund a Save the Children project 50,000 via Mothercare UK Limited to The Royal College of aiming to improve health care for migrant mothers and their Midwives Alliance Programme, an innovative venture formed children in China.
In the UK, Born to Care will help to fund Save to actively support midwives and mothers: the Children Families and Schools Together projects, where 41,554 to The Stroke Association, a project investigating the parents and children take part in an eight-week programme to causes of strokes in children: and strengthen family bonds, and build relationships with the school, other parents and their community.
40,000 to The Cambridge Foundations Baby Growth Study, on the effect of chemicals found in the environment on the Our partnership with Save the Children has galvanised our development of the foetus in the womb.
Our store staff, and office employees in the UK and around the world have undertaken various People who work for us fundraising activities.
By the close of the financial year, our We promote a work culture that cares something employees had already raised over 100,000. that resonates with people who work for us who often talk about being part of the Mothercare family.
Following the devastating floods in Pakistan we joined forces One of the ways we measure this sense of community is by with our distribution provider, DHL to make a difference.
We our annual participation in The Sunday Times 25 Best Big collected 266,000 worth of clothing and shoes at our National Companies to Work For scheme, based on employee votes.
Distribution Centre and transported it to the Islamic Relief depot, This year we were placed eighth overall and were particularly in Birmingham to be flown out to Pakistan.
commended for the upbeat spirit and family feeling at work Community investment Donation 79% saying that they care about one another and 76% telling us they feel proud to work for the Company.
Mothercare Group Foundation 102,841 Foundation for the Study of Infant Death 47,500 We also retained our Two Star status in the Best Company 2,300 Save the Children 50,000 accreditation, which recognises corporate excellence in the tonnes of waste Cancer Research UK 50,000 workplace.
Two Stars is recognised as Outstanding and we 7,000 recycled last year Retail Trust 16,000 were one of only seven retail companies to achieve this award.
parents-to-be - Wellbeing of Women 11,000 attended Baby 8.6m kwh Other charities and gifts 4,820 th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual Gifts in kind 266,000 8 energy consumption has Direct donations 548,161 in The Sunday Times reduced enough to power Employee fundraising 100,605 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office Total 648,766 to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims 22 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 SCHOOL 218,783 218,783 In addition, Mothercare came fourth overall in a survey by The People making our products Reputation Institute which measures the reputations companies Responsible sourcing is a key part of the Mothercare hold in the eyes of the British public.
It is a challenging area with complex issues UKs top 200 companies across seven values, including the which we continue to work to identify and overcome areas of workplace, leadership, governance and citizenship.
The Mothercare group Responsible Sourcing RS Code, based on international labour law and reflecting We believe in the importance of adopting the highest standards the requirements of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, of behaviour in all business activities and this year we launched remains the backbone of our programme and the starting point our Global Code of Conduct Policy.
It includes examples for dialogue with our suppliers.
Our Code, together with our of acceptable and non-acceptable behaviour in respect of: Implementation Policy, is published on www.
relationships with suppliers: accepting gifts: equal opportunities: and compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
Nearly all of our UK In 2010, Mothercare commissioned two independent reviews non-store employees have attended a presentation covering of the RS strategy: the importance of the Code and received a copy for future The first by specialist company Impactt Ltd focused on reference.
The Code will be communicated to our wider the effectiveness of the Mothercare monitoring programme, employee base, business partners and suppliers in the comparing the results of the independent audits with coming months.
information from RS team visits in the Far East and South Asia.
Our focus this year has been to renew and strengthen the The overall conclusion was that visits complemented the Learning and Development L&D opportunities we offer, to audits, enabling a better understanding of the situation ensure our employees across all grades have the right skills to on site, and follow up on issues.
There were a number of do their jobs and to progress in the Company.
A new training recommendations on how to improve this in the future which we have taken on board.
programme called Brand Ambassadors was launched to help store employees become expert in particular areas of The second review by our internal audit division looked at the importance to our customers, and then share this information policies and procedures used by the entire sourcing function, with their colleagues.
One such programme centred on the aiming to understand where improvements could development of specialist parenting skills, which saw over be made.
The review concluded that the policies in the 250 employees attend a two-day training programme on RS strategy were suitable for purpose, but that there were baby feeding and weaning, hosted by a range of experts, some occasional gaps in the implementation of these policies.
including representatives from the Royal College of Midwives.
These two reviews along with a consideration of the changing A second initiative, Fast Track, identifies and develops assistant geographical spread of our suppliers, the available resources, managers and senior supervisors who are ready for internal and the needs of suppliers formed the basis of a wider promotion to senior management roles.
The programme review of our RS strategy, completed by the RS team itself.
involves 12 weeks of intensive management training and is proving to be successful, with 74 per cent of graduates achieving promotion since its launch in 2009.
Other L&D 2,300 initiatives include the Emerging Leader Programme and tonnes of waste Advance Leader Programme, which are both designed to 7,000 recycled last year develop the skills and abilities of future business leaders.
parents-to-be - attended Baby 8.6m kwh th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual 8 energy consumption has in The Sunday Times reduced enough to power 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims Mothercare pM lc o Atn hn eu rc aa l r re e p po lc rt A a n n n d u a alc R ce op un otrt s 2 20 01 11 1 | | 2 23 3 SCHOOL 218,783 Corporate responsibility continued This resulted in the development of a five-year implementation We continue to invest in the carbon efficiency of our transport plan, including the increase of our team from eight to 11 people fleet, this year introducing four new double-deck trailers, three new employees working from our Shanghai office and following a successful trial in 2010.
Their aerodynamic shape a shift of responsibilities, allowing our expert staff to focus reduces drag, increasing fuel efficiency by up to 18 per cent.
more time in the field supporting suppliers.
There will be further At the start of 2010 11, we undertook a survey with our waste recruitment in 2011 to strengthen our China field team and contractor to measure more accurately the amount of waste field staff for Bangladesh.
The RS manager in the UK is also from our stores.
The results revealed that our overall recycling establishing further policies and procedures, information for rate was lower than previous figures, being approximately suppliers and tools for remediation for use in 2011.
65 per cent of all store waste.
We are working with our stores Our strategy has, to date, been focused on our first tier suppliers to improve this and have an indication of what is possible that is factories where our products are made.
We believe this from both our Romford and Stoke stores, who have achieved is still the right approach as this is where we have the greatest recycling rates of 90 per cent.
However, as we increasingly understand Our National Distribution Centre is working towards an our supply chain it is apparent that labour conditions in aspirational target of zero waste to landfill.
This year they took second tier and third tier suppliers, for example in cotton fields, a step closer to that by reducing landfill waste by 40 per cent.
dye houses and spinning mills, remain largely unregulated.
This was achieved by a combination of factors: fewer product Tackling complex issues with businesses over whom we have returns from customers, a reduction in product packaging little influence is impossible for us to achieve alone and we are and the installation of a waste crusher to divert waste away collaborating with a number of brands, NGOs, and trade unions from landfill.
to identify ways to support local initiatives that may address these unregulated areas over the long term.
As part of our efforts to reduce the number of single use carrier bags by 50 per cent, we have introduced a policy Environment: Energy and waste of asking customers where appropriate if they would like In December 2010 we were pleased to be awarded a bag, resulting in a further 10 per cent fall in the number we the Carbon Trust Standard, in recognition of our gave away in our Mothercare stores.
energy management practices and the fall in our carbon footprint between April 2007 and March 2010.
This We have policies controlling the use of chemicals, focusing on year our carbon emissions increased, although we continued those with known environmental or health risks.
In support of to meet our target of a 15 per cent reduction since 2007 08. our target to ensure over 50 per cent of solid wooden products Two factors this year pushed up energy use: more store are made from wood that is recycled or certified by the Forest openings and a very cold winter, where we saw increases Stewardship Council, we are working with our suppliers to in store energy use of 11 per cent, on a like-for-like basis.
monitor the source of the wood they use in our products.
To offset this we continue to install energy efficiency equipment into our new and refitted stores.
Our challenge over the next year is to harness the enthusiasm 2,300 and creativity of our employees to drive savings.
To support tonnes of waste this we have now completed the roll-out of Automatic Meter 7,000 recycled last year Readers giving instant access to the energy consumption parents-to-be - figures for each store and launched a CR Champions scheme attended Baby 8.6m kwh across our store network.
We have 17 CR Champions in total, th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual 8 one for each of our areas.
Their role is to encourage and energy consumption has in The Sunday Times support everyone to use less energy and recycle more waste.
reduced enough to power 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims 24 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 SCHOOL 218,783 Case Study 1: Save the Children partnership in Case Study 2: Baby & Me parenting events India beyond philanthropy For many people, becoming an expectant parent The employees working in our India offices have is a life-changing experience.
In recognition of this, really got behind our partnership with Save the we launched a series of Baby & Me events in our Children.
They have forged strong links with the Save the Parenting Centres, last autumn and again this spring.
The Children office in Delhi and have so far raised around 11,000. informal events were aimed at expectant parents and also first-time grandparents, providing them with a forum to ask But the links to Save the Children go beyond fundraising questions and listen to advice on a whole host of topics, activities.
Our RS team worked with the Delhi-based National from car safety, to bra fitting, to development toys.
Manager, Child Protection at Save the Children to run awareness raising sessions for working mothers in supplier The events were managed by our trained and experienced factories.
In total, eight workshops were conducted six in store staff, who worked alongside a host of advisers from Coimbatore and two in Bangalore.
professional organisations such as children centres, baby sensory class teachers, baby massage teachers, health care Child labour is still a big issue in India not so much in the professionals, and representatives from the Royal College of factories where our products are made but in other tiers of the Midwives, all supported by technical information packs and supply chain, such as in cotton fields, spinning mills, dye houses personal visits from our own, in-house team of experts.
and in the more informal sectors like homeworking, hospitality, construction etc.
Schooling can be expensive and many parents In total we held 185 events across the UK, attended by 7,000 choose to stop educating their daughters at a relatively young age.
They took place in the evenings and on weekends, when the store was closed, making the event more relaxed The objective of the workshop was to educate working mothers and enjoyable for everyone who came along.
The focus of the about the rights of children, with an emphasis on girls, and event was very much on advice for new parents, rather than prevention of child labour.
The trainer provided information on selling products.
Over 95 per cent of those who attended about welfare schemes and scholarships available from the said they had really enjoyed the event and would recommend government to help keep children out of work and in school.
future events to other parents-to-be.
Over 700 working mothers attended the workshop and the feedback was extremely positive: Radhika has worked at our supplier Cotton Blossom for two years: Save the Children training has been very useful for us.
Thank Cotton Blossom for this enlightening opportunity.
My take away from this training is that we should provide education to the children without any discrimination between male and female child.
Uma is also employed by Cotton Blossom and has worked in 2,300 the factory for three years: tonnes of waste 7,000 recycled last year This programme through Mothercare has been an enlightening parents-to-be - experience for me.
I committed a mistake of stopping my attended Baby 8.6m kwh daughters education when she was at her tenth standard th & Me events Since 2007 08 our annual while I sent my son to college.
After attending this programme 8 energy consumption has I vouched myself to continue my daughters education.
in The Sunday Times reduced enough to power 25 Best Big Companies our Watford head office to Work For 23 for three years 1.2m 6m local community Target of fewer miles driven fewer Mothercare groups around than in 2007 08 bags used than in the UK 50% 2007 08 of solid wooden products made in grants made by 150,000 from recycled or 266,000 the Mothercare raised for Save FSC wood by 2013 worth of clothing and shoes Group Foundation the Children transported to Pakistan flood victims Mothercare pM lc o Atn hn eu rc aa l r re e p po lc rt A a n n n d u a alc R ce op un otrt s 2 20 01 11 1 | | 2 25 5 SCHOOL 218,783
