55 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information In 2011 NWR concluded its first year of reporting sustainability performance in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI and published its first annual Sustainability Report for the year.
Strategy interest of our stakeholders are grouped in Case study By its very nature, coal mining will always four pillars of sustainable development have an impact on the environment, and on corporate governance, our people, Detailed monitoring of employee the people who live nearby.
That is why we environment protection and relations with movement improves safety are ever mindful of our responsibilities as we community with an emphasis on safety.
seek to expand our available coal reserves at In 2011, the Czech Mining Authority our existing mines, develop new mines and Safety, Health and Sustainability Committee invited mining companies to propose pursue merger & acquisition opportunities.
The former Heath, Safety and Environment ideas for monitoring the traffic of Indeed, it is incumbent upon us to go far Committee HSEC established in 2007 to employees in mining areas, as part beyond box ticking compliance: in the assist NWRs Board of Directors with health, of its on going project to improve safety course of our business we must maintain a safety and environmental risks within NWR, in mining operations in the country.
working dialogue with the Czech, Polish and was transformed into the Safety, Health and European Union regulators of our industry, Sustainability Committee SHSC by the NWR pioneered an initiative facilitated with the local politicians who represent the Board of Directors on 15 November 2011. by UHF tags placed on the lower part towns and regions where we operate, and The purpose of the SHSC is to assist the Board of miners lamps.
The UHF, or RFID, tag with the national politicians who legislate.
in its management of corporate and social contains a unique number and detailed responsibilities, with a special emphasis on information on its user.
The tag also Sustainable development is integral safety, health and environmental risks within includes a back-up power source, to the business strategy of NWR.
The Board approves the ensuring its continued operation that our business is economically adequacy of risk-control measures to ensure even if the main battery runs down.
and environmentally sustainable enables that the risks are effectively controlled and RFID readers are installed throughout the NWR Group to maintain its social prevented.
The SHSC aims to provide the Board the monitored areas, recording the licence to mine coal and produce coke.
with additional focus, insight and guidance movement of miners and storing the We continuously monitor and evaluate the on key Group Sustainability and HSE issues information in a database.
Inspection impact of our activities in order to effectively and global trends.
The members of the SHSC service employees can therefore manage the sustainability of our business.
are: Paul Everard Chairman, Mike Salamon, continuously monitor the movement Klaus-Dieter Beck and Steven Schuit.
The of personnel, the number of miners The long term success of the NWR Group meetings are also regularly attended by Jn on individual shifts, and any instances depends strongly on maintaining a broad Fabin, Chief Operating Officer of NWR who of entry into restricted areas.
We target: is responsible for the overall operations of NWR KARBONIA and OKK, Petra Manov, The system is designed as M1-category the sustainable and responsible use the Head of Corporate Communications and equipment.
It enables monitoring of natural resources that we mine and CSR, and by two external experts, in adverse situations such as high process: Stan Suboleski and Karl Friedrich Jakob.
methane concentration or a general minimising the environmental impact power failure.
of our activities by thorough planning of Further details on functioning and our coal and coke production, efficient activities of the SHSC may be found During 2011, 12 of these systems were execution and responsibly managing the in the Corporate Governance section installed across our mines.
A central landscape: and of this report on pages 77, 78. communication system is currently under sustaining jobs within and bringing wider development as part of the evolution of benefits to the local communities where Sustainability reporting this concept as NWR seeks to further we operate NWR publishes its first GRI compliant its safety improvements in stress-prone Sustainability Report, which measures areas.
This communication system will By openly communicating our activities NWRs performance through non-financial expand the capabilities of the existing and aspirations, the NWR Group seeks to indicators.
In line with the Companys aim safety system.
The key requirement is be an engaging and reliable partner for all to focus on corresponding activities, to ensure basic communication between stakeholders.
NWR intends to issue a Sustainability miners situated underground and the Report annually, shortly after the release central operations desk.
Stakeholder dialogue of its Annual Report and Accounts.
When preparing reports on sustainable development, we followed the procedure Related information online at recommended by the GRI.
eu areas which stands at the forefront of the sustainability
