43 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Our operations have been successfully restructured and our strategy for the future is focussed on maintaining premium coke quality whilst managing costs.
Coke highlights of 2011 and coke unit conversion costs were modernisation and consolidation of our 2011 has been a milestone year for the 17 per cent lower than in 2010, on coke production facilities in a single plant.
coke business with progress on all fronts, a constant currency basis, as our new which leaves the business well positioned production is considerably less energy Challenges for the future as the industry continues intensive and requires lower maintenance In the second half of 2011 the European to face uncertain times.
At the beginning costs than running the older plant.
coke market tightened, which affected of 2011 we completed the transfer of all our performance and prompted us to production to one facility, at Svoboda, and One other significant advantage of our new lower our coke sales guidance for the full this concluded our large-scale investment facility is the ability of all four batteries to year 2011.
Some coke customers from programme, COP 2010. produce both foundry and blast furnace the steel industry have their own captive coke, giving us the ability to change coking facilities and use third-party coke As a result, we have significantly reduced production schedules to meet demand.
merchants to supplement supply when costs, transformed safety and further This has proved to be a great asset during necessary.
When steel producers reduced the impact of our operations 2011 as we have been able to react flexibly utilisation capacity decreases, a major on the environment.
Unlike our previous to the changing market environment and challenge for any stand-alone coke configuration, the new plant is able to produce increase the proportion of foundry coke in merchant like OKK is that steel makers the full range of coke products with foundry our production and sales mix.
with captive supply do not buy its coke being the higher-margin product.
Even when coke unit production Coke sales costs are relatively low, customers prefer Our operations have been successfully Coke sales for 2011 were approximately to maintain their own production rather restructured and future capital 67 per cent foundry coke, 23 per cent blast than mothball their coke plants and buy expenditure in OKK will not match the furnace coke, and 10 per cent other types.
Our strategy for the future is focused on maintaining Coke prices are set quarterly and the Whilst independence from any single premium coke quality and managing costs average realised sales price during 2011 customer enables OKK to serve a relatively rather than developing new capacity.
was EUR 365 per tonne, an increase of diverse variety of customers, it still means 33 per cent compared to the previous year.
that we are dependent upon the dynamics Safety of the European coke market.
In times Safety continues to be an important Costs & revenues of weak customer demand OKK stockpiles focus for OKK and, given the nature of Revenues for the coke segment coke as many customers reduce stock our 24-hour, 365-days-a-year operations, decreased by 31 per cent to EUR 237 levels in order to lower their working we are pleased to have achieved major million, as the increase in prices was capital requirements.
more than offset by the decrease in sales volumes, due to our reduced Continuous Improvement This achievement is underpinned by our coke capacity, as well as due to weak Programme CIP comprehensive system of training and demand for merchant coke in the second OKK has been successful in linking the communication, which involves regular half of 2011. performance of the business as a whole training for technicians, supervisors and to the actions of individuals.
Under foremen, and discussions with our internal Main operating expenses for the coke the CIP initiative, OKK employees are staff and contractors.
We have invested in segment decreased by 10 per cent in eligible for financial rewards in return for the latest technology to include breathing 2011.
Excluding the impact of currency improvements in quality, simplification apparatus and safety fuses for benzole appreciation, main expenses for the and or reduction in the costs of working absorption coolers.
coke segment decreased by 12 per cent processes.
During 2011, the CIP delivered in the period, as lower production was savings of around EUR 2 million.
Operational performance partly offset by the increased unit price of Coke production in 2011 was 770 kilo coking coal.
Environmental tonnes - lower than in 2010 principally due During the year we succeeded in our to the planned closure of the outdated Despite the 23 per cent decrease in application to the Czech Ministry of the Jan Sverma coking plant, which reduced production, coke conversion costs per Environment for the reconstruction of the the Companys coke production capacity.
tonne, which exclude the cost of coal quenching tower no.
2 for coking batteries inputs and transportation, decreased by nos.
9 and 10 with the objective of further The consolidation of our production has 17 per cent, excluding the impact of reducing emissions of solid pollutants.
significantly enhanced our cost position currency movements, driven by the During 2012 we intend to reconstruct the
