121 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information n Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Related gains and losses are recognised in the income statement at the settlement date.
o Employee benefits The Group provides a number of different benefits to its employees jubilee, loyalty, retirement and special miners benefits.
The Groups obligation in respect of long-term service benefits is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on Czech government bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
p Share-based payment transactions Employees including senior executives of the Group receive part of the remuneration for their services in the form of share-based payment transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined based on the market price listed on the stock exchange and whenever appropriate using option pricing models.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured as the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the counterparty are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Transactions with cash-alternative The cost of transactions with a cash-alternative is measured initially at fair value at the grant date.
This fair value is expensed over the period until the vesting date with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
