Directors Report and Business Review 16 In addition, NEXT has to fund its defined benefit pension scheme and ensure that sufficient contributions are made to meet its outstanding liabilities as they fall due.
If NEXT fails to provide sufficient and timely funding, action may be taken by either the pension scheme trustees, or the Pensions Regulator, which could result in an acceleration and or an increase in overall contributions towards any resulting deficit.
Management meets regularly with the trustees of its pension scheme to assess fund performance, as well as to agree future contribution levels and any necessary changes to future benefits to be provided to members of the scheme.
EMPLOYEES People are key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
NEXT has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working environment.
Equal opportunities NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
Full consideration is given to application for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Training and development NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and development of staff and in training and education programmes which contribute to the internal promotion prospects of employees.
Employee communication NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial and other information about the business and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
NEXT has an employee forum made up of a network of elected representatives from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a year with Directors and senior managers.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
Employee share ownership Approximately 7,600 NEXT employees held options over a total of 12.5 million shares in NEXT plc at January 2011.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT has purchased shares in the market and issues them to employees when options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 6.4 million shares, the voting rights of which are exercisable by the Trustee.
Pension provision The NEXT Group Pension Plan provides a valuable pension benefit to its participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 34 and in Note 21 to the financial statements.
As at 29 January 2011, there were 1,612 2010: 1,738 active members in the Defined Benefit Section and 2,216 2010: 2,065 members in the Defined Contribution Section.
SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS NEXT is committed to the principles of responsible business.
For NEXT, this means addressing key business related social, ethical and environmental matters in a way that aims to bring value to all of its stakeholders, including customers and shareholders.
Continuous improvement lies at the heart of NEXTs approach and this is achieved by acting in an ethical manner, developing positive relationships with suppliers, recruiting and retaining good people and maintaining healthy links with the communities in which the Group operates.
NEXT has a Corporate Responsibility CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, co-ordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement its strategy.
The forum identifies potential issues and opportunities and evaluates the success of NEXTs response.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
A third party provides independent assurance on the content of the Groups CR report which is published on the Companys website each year.
NEXTs commitment to CR matters is also recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 29 January 2011 20183.04 07 04 2011 Proof 6 20183-04NEXTPLC FRONT.
indd 16 11 04 2011 11:02:33 Directors Report and Business Review 17 Suppliers NEXT is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and operates its Code of Practice COP, an established set of ethical trading standards as an integral part of the Groups operations.
The NEXT COP has ten key principles that stipulate the minimum standards with which suppliers are required to comply in relation to workers rights and conditions of work including working hours, minimum age of employment, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
Through its COP, NEXT seeks to ensure all products bearing the NEXT brand are produced in a clean and safe environment and in accordance with all relevant laws.
NEXT is committed to its internal supplier audit and management programme and has a COP audit team of 44 staff 2010: 40.
The COP team works directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of non-compliance.
Each audited factory is measured against the COP and is graded against its six tier rating system.
The supplier is made aware of its rating and what is required to improve that rating via a corrective action plan.
This direct approach also allows NEXT to build knowledge and understanding in the local communities, as well as monitoring suppliers through its auditing process.
NEXTs policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the NEXT Group at 29 January 2011 were 29 days 2010: 26 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 29 January 2011 or 30 January 2010.
Customers NEXT is committed to offering stylish, excellent quality products to its customers.
It aims to ensure they are well made, functional, safe and are sourced in a responsible manner.
Its team of technologists works closely with buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure NEXT products comply with all relevant legislation, and its own internal standards where these are higher.
The expertise of independent safety specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is used where required.
NEXT endeavours to provide an inclusive, high quality service to all customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, catalogues or website.
The different methods of shopping must be easily accessible for all customers and be responsive to their particular needs.
NEXT Customer Services interacts with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are documented and the information is used by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved.
Health and safety NEXT recognises the importance of health and safety at work and its management is designed to contribute to improving business performance.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make safety management more robust and fully up to date.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm customers, employees, contractors, sites or equipment.
Procedures are in place to enable effective two way communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
Environment NEXT recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: n energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices: n fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes: and n waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices.
NEXT is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by reducing energy consumption throughout its operations, minimising and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions and reducing the packaging in our products.
indd 17 11 04 2011 11:02:33 Business reports Directors Report and Business Review 18 The business has continued to roll out the implementation of energy saving initiatives, such as replacing existing lighting schemes in our stores with more efficient bulbs and using our building management systems to automatically manage when store lighting and air conditioning is turned on or off.
During the year, NEXT was able to further reduce its UK and Eire electricity consumption by 4% whilst increasing its store trading space by over 5%.
Gas is used for heating within the business and, as a result of the periods of very cold weather experienced during 2010, usage increased by 26%.
Nevertheless, overall electricity and gas consumption was reduced by 1% in the year.
For waste, the priorities are to minimise the total amount of waste generated within the Groups operations and to recycle more waste in order to divert it from landfill.
During the year the quantity of general waste created by the business was reduced by 25% compared to last year.
NEXT has also developed solutions to recycle 76% of its remaining waste, an increase of 11% on the previous year.
NEXT complies with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations through participation in a UK wide WEEE collection system to enable its customers to recycle electrical products free of charge at UK recycling sites.
Community NEXT aims to make a positive impact in its local communities through a programme of support involving sponsorship, donations and employee time.
NEXT has provided the following financial support: 2011 2010 000 000 Registered charities 857 903 Individual requests, local and national groups and organisations 68 87 Commercial support 74 61 This support has been complemented with the following fundraising activities to generate additional funds for registered charities, groups or organisations: 2011 2010 000 000 NEXT charity events 216 20 Gifts in kind product donations 1,124 601 Charity linked sales 288 404 Employee fundraising 19 46 NEXT works with a number of charities both in the UK and overseas to raise funds through the sale of specific products where a donation from their sale is passed to the charity.
In addition, NEXT makes donations of surplus stocks for resale by those charities.
No donations were made for political purposes 2010: nil.
