Health & safety and environment The Board believes that good health & safety The total water usage consumption in the UK for the period was and environmental HS&E performance is 41,650 cubic metres, a reduction of 19% from the previous period.
synonymous with good business performance This reduction takes into account the implementation of waste and this objective is supported by comprehensive usage controls and a small number of site closures.
strategies and initiatives approved by the Board.
The Group is a sponsor of Brake, the road safety charity, and are members of the British Safety Council and the Royal Society for the The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person Prevention of Accidents RoSPA.
For the third successive year we ultimately responsible for HS&E throughout the Group.
received a Gold Award from RoSPA in recognition of the Groups Responsibility for implementing and monitoring the Groups HS&E HS&E arrangements in the UK.
Winning this prestigious award for policies is devolved to operational management at our locations in three consecutive years we believe underlines our commitment to the UK and Spain.
The Company is committed to promoting and implementing only During the year under review, no incidents resulting in fatality or the highest HS&E standards across all locations.
Sound and robust significant pollution occurred at any of our locations.
No formal HS&E arrangements and risk controls therefore form a key part of notices were issued by enforcement authorities at any location.
the Companys overall business strategy.
The Groups arrangements for HS&E governance and management systems implementation Property are detailed in our policy and management arrangement manuals As at 30 April 2011, the vehicle hire business in the UK and Republic available at all Group locations and on our intranet.
of Ireland operated out of 62 properties, of which 20 are larger Common and consistent HS&E standards in accordance with primary sites and 42 are branches.
The vast majority of these sites are legislative and best practice requirements are applied across all located on industrial estates, so our activities have minimal impact Group operations.
Risk controls and procedures are continually on the local community of the areas in which we operate.
They vary assessed to ensure that everything is being done to meet the highest in size from the larger sites which will typically have an area of 1.2 possible standards of HS&E requirements using comprehensive and acres, will comprise approximately 9,000 sq.
ft. of workshops and robust HS&E operating controls.
office facilities, with the remainder hard-standing and will employ During the year the Groups HS&E department carried out formal approximately 40 to 50 people.
The smaller sites will have an area of audit reviews to measure performance of our HS&E management approximately 0.3 acres, have a small office often of the portacabin system at all locations and where necessary identified improvements type, a valet washbay and in some cases a workshop facility, and monitored compliance subsequently.
The main objective of again, often a modular building.
They employ an average of 10 to the HS&E department is to ensure continuous improvement across 15 people.
Two of the larger sites share premises with Northgate the Group and provide pragmatic and practical solutions to the Vehicle Sales who have a further nine dedicated sales and retail operational risks within the business to all levels of employees with a sites.
Fleet Technique operate from offices in Gateshead and the strong focus on behavioural safety and employee involvement.
Groups head office building in Darlington accommodates all central administrative and support services.
There are two stand alone body The Company provides training for employees in a wide range of shop facilities in Warwick and Huddersfield.
health and safety disciplines, most of which is carried out internally by the Groups HS&E department.
In the UK, training provided is The Spanish hire business operates from 25 sites which are all of accredited by the British Safety Council.
We continue to focus our a similar nature to those operated out of in the UK business, as efforts on training as we see this as being pivotal in meeting our described above.
objective of continually raising and improving HS&E standards and culture across all locations.
Vehicle fleet The total fleet in the UK and Republic of Ireland at 30 April 2011 The Companys environmental principles are to promote and operate was 61,200, with an average age of 22.1 months, of which 10% processes and procedures which, so far as is reasonably practicable, were cars and the remainder commercial vehicles.
The total fleet avoid or minimise the contamination of water, air or the ground in Spain at 30 April 2011 was 43,500 vehicles with an average whilst maintaining a responsibility to manage those by-products and age of 25.0 months of which 46% were cars and the remainder waste materials generated by our activities, particularly from our commercial vehicles.
During the year 85% of hazardous wastes collected from workshops Vehicles were sold after an average life of 35.2 months in the UK in the UK and 78% of hazardous wastes collected from workshops and 42.8 months in Spain.
We continue to work closely with our waste Our fleet is therefore, comprised entirely of modern vehicles.
All management partners to improve waste management arrangements purchases in the year ended 30 April 2011 were either Euro IV or and performance across the Group.
The operating business in Spain Euro V compliant.
is certified to the internationally recognised Environmental Standard ISO 14001.
34 Health & safety and environment Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
