10 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Our corporate responsibility In previous years, in line with many other companies, Our customer research also highlights that customers we have reported on corporate responsibility value the work of NWL in the community and for separately within this report.
During the year, a review the environment and it helps to build their trust in of our vision, values and strategy has given us the our work.
Each aspect of the highlighted work in opportunity to truly embed sustainability throughout this report has a direct benefit to the company, its our business.
Reflecting the importance of community and its environment, such as cost saving, sustainability to our business we believe that we carbon reduction, environmental impact, skills should report sustainability issues alongside our core development or leverage.
Case studies throughout business activities and we have decided to highlight our annual report, for example on advanced anaerobic sustainability areas throughout our annual report in digestion or use of reed beds in water treatment, green.
We recognise that this is an innovative demonstrate the tangible business benefits such approach and would welcome any feedback.
This as reduced costs and power consumption.
activity is extensive and it is not possible to include everything here.
As a result, key sustainability issues To ensure that sustainability runs throughout the appear in green boxes and are linked to our business, all parts of the Company are involved from Sustainability Highlights document, a partner the Board through to all employees.
Governance of document to this annual report, which contains more our sustainability activity is led by our Corporate detailed information on our responsible business Responsibility Committee CRC, a subcommittee of practice policies, plans, KPIs and case studies.
The CRC comprises non-executive directors, executive directors, the CEO who is directly NWL is expected to provide a secure supply of water, accountable to the NWL and NWG boards for both the a basic necessity for health, and to protect or enhance environment and sustainable development policies the environment when we return waste to it.
Our and senior managers from across the business.
In stakeholders also expect us to: addition, a CR Advisory Group CRAG acts as a behave fairly and responsibly: critical friend, helping to validate, guide and challenge use resources wisely: NWLs sustainability strategy and activities.
The CRAG improve quality of life: and is made up of senior representatives from partner contribute to economic development.
organisations to reflect the key areas of our communities strategy.
We believe that sustainability helps to improve the performance of the company and to achieve our Northumbrian Water Groups driving commitment business strategy and objectives.
This is reflected to sustainability demonstrates that strong leadership in our business plan where our sustainability and ambition can make a tangible difference to objectives are woven into our core business strategy.
Our credentials for our work have been recognised Simon Lyster, Chair, CRC.
and these are outlined on page 44. Business in the Community BITC has highlighted that those Northumbrian Water Group has an open and companies participating in their Corporate inclusive approach to working with a wide array of Responsibility Index outperform other FTSE 250 external partners to develop extremely impressive companies and Ethisphere highlights similar social and environmental initiatives.
NWGs share Norma Hope, Chair, CRAG.
price has outperformed against the FTSE 250 over the last five years as highlighted on page 78.
11 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Kielder Water & Forest Park
