24 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Corporate social responsibility report Green van deliveries: Customers can choose a green van slot Introduction when booking a delivery time that is, when a delivery van is Operating our business in a responsible way is fundamental both already booked in that customers area which helps minimise to the way we operate and to delivering sustainable profits and the carbon impact of that customers delivery.
long-term value for our shareholders.
Energy efficiency project: Ocado invested almost 0.2 million this corporate social responsibility report explains how the in the period on a project to improve the integrity of the group carries out its responsibilities with respect to the chilled picking area in CfC1 by closing up small air escape environment, employment practices and the community.
holes, upgrading doors and building airlocks in order to reduce the loss of chilled air.
these changes will help to Environment provide the business with energy savings.
Ocado makes it part of the Companys strategy is to be the uKs greenest, a standard requirement for new sites and new fit outs of most innovative and best value online grocer.
Ocado aims to existing buildings that they use energy efficient lighting, motion provide a greener, more sustainable alternative to store-based detectors and daylight controls as part of its energy saving supermarkets.
a traditional supermarket requires deliveries first to be made Environmental initiatives undertaken to a regional distribution centre and then to the supermarket the group has taken a number of measures to reduce its itself.
Customers will often drive to the supermarket in order environmental impact, as set out below.
to shop, and the supermarkets themselves require energy to be lit and heated, and tend to have open fridges and freezers Responsible bag recycling: the business has a closed-loop in an otherwise ambient environment.
Ocado delivers from grocery bag recycling system, whereby when making a a Customer fulfilment Centre sometimes via a spoke to delivery, Cstms offer to collect used carrier bags both a customers kitchen, which eliminates much of the carbon Ocado bags and any other companys plastic bags from emissions generated by traditional supermarkets and their customers which are then recycled within the uK to make stores, and also reduces the number of cars on the road.
each Ocado delivery van replaces a significant number of car journeys every day.
Reducing food wastage: the directors believe that the groups food waste as a percentage of revenue 0.70% of the revenue this sustainable alternative has been reflected in awards made for the period is significantly less than any of its competitors.
to the Company in recent years.
among the awards, Ocado Ocado also helps its customers reduce their food waste, was voted green retailer of the year 2009 in the grocer by being the first online food retailer to show guaranteed gold awards and received the good farm animal welfare product life on the website and by including use-by dates on award 2011 in the Compassion in world farming awards for each order receipt.
some food that is beyond the guaranteed Ocado own-label eggs.
product life but within the use-by date is donated to various charities including vineyard in southend, ymCa in watford the group has taken a number of other steps in response to and new hope trust in watford.
any food that isnt fit for new carbon reduction legislation and to address the lessening Ocados company shop or charities, but is suitable for animals, of its carbon footprint, as set out below.
is sent to paradise wildlife park in broxbourne along with some allocated fresh produce.
Ocado also donates cat food Climate Change Agreement: Ocado has signed-up to the and cat litter to Cat protection, a cat sanctuary based in Climate Change agreement with the Carbon trust, which welwyn.
places certain obligations on the group to monitor and lower carbon usage.
Anaerobic digestion: Ocado uses a process called anaerobic digestion, which is a process whereby some of Ocados food 10:10 campaign: in 2010, the Company signed-up to the waste is sent to biogen greenfinch, an operator of anaerobic 10:10 campaign, which is a campaign run by an independent digestion plants, to be mixed with bacteria and burnt to uK charity, the 10:10 trust, aimed at reducing carbon produce electricity and biofertiliser.
the Company receives a emissions by 10% in a year.
the Company continues to regular report which outlines the estimated amount of power support the campaign, and has signed up as a partner for that has been created through this process.
for example, 2012. the Company has not had its carbon emissions audited in January 2012 the process generated an estimated 11,606 for the period since signing up to the 10:10 campaign, so kilowatt hours of electricity, and made a carbon saving of cannot yet measure whether it has met this target.
the Company measures its carbon emissions on an ongoing basis using a baseline measurement.
these records show that Meat Free Monday: the Company supports the meat free it has been reducing its carbon emissions against previous monday campaign which raises awareness of the climateperiods when measured as a percentage of the groups sales.
changing impact of meat production and consumption.
the meat free monday campaign encourages people to reduce Electric vans: Ocado has co-developed electric powered vans, their greenhouse gas emissions by having at least one meatwhich are now part of our delivery fleet at our white City free day every week.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Corporate social responsibility report Stock code: OCDO www.
com 25 Suppliers and products People Product range: the Ocado own-label was introduced in Ocados employees are key to its business and are the most 2010 to broaden the choice for our customers and offers visible part of the business to its customers.
management is good quality products at competitive prices.
One of the key committed to high standards of employment practice and to criteria when developing the Ocado own-label range is that it providing equality of opportunity, training and development must be responsibly sourced.
the Company supports british and a safe workplace, in addition to developing initiatives and eu farming and, where possible, sources relevant Ocado which encourage innovation.
own-label products from the british isles when in season and available.
Ocado fish is responsibly caught, Ocado fresh meat Ocado aims to be an exceptional employer: one that and poultry is raised to british, eu or new Zealand welfare recognises talent and develops people to the best of standards, Ocado boxed eggs are free-range and all of the their abilities.
in return, we ask our people to share our Ocado brand bread is made using british wheat.
Ocado has determination to succeed.
we deliver superior customer now over 620 products in its own-label range.
service and business success through our people which is why it is important for us to appropriately reward, engage, listen to Waitrose Foundation: through its sourcing agreement and develop our employees.
with waitrose, Ocado makes a donation to the waitrose foundation.
the waitrose foundation is a partnership Rewarding our people created in 2005 to help improve the lives of the farm since its commencement as a privately owned business, workers and smallholders in south africa, ghana and Kenya Ocados policy has been to issue share options to its who grow produce for the waitrose foundation range of employees.
the rationale is that we want to give all of our products.
a percentage of profits from the sales in this employees the opportunity to own a part of the business.
range is paid into a trust to fund projects chosen by the we continue to grant share options in the Company to each farm workers and smallholders committees.
these include new employee as part of their employee benefits package.
educational, social and healthcare projects.
in 2010 2011, the waitrose foundation had launched over 200 projects, ranging as part of Ocados philosophy of employee share ownership, from crches to adult literacy programmes, and from sports the group also operates the Ocado sharesave scheme teams to provision of equipment for medical clinics.
in which a large number of employees participate.
the sharesave scheme is a savings-related share option plan Duchy Originals products: during the period, Ocado made where each participating employee is granted options over a donation of about 228,000 to the princes Charities shares in the Company in proportion to the amount saved foundation, a group of 20 non-profit organisations, through its by that employee.
following period end, Ocado launched sales of duchy Originals branded products.
a second offer to employees to join the Ocado sharesave scheme.
Fair trade: Ocado aims to trade fairly with its suppliers and supports established schemes such as fairtrade and traidcraft, we expect that in future, Ocado will introduce additional which contribute to the sustainable development of the share schemes to both reward employees and to offer communities where farmers and workers live.
the directors employees further opportunities to become shareholders in believe that Ocado has one of the largest fairtrade range of the Company.
products of all uK grocers.
in addition to share schemes, we provide a range of employee Organic farming: Ocado has a large selection of organic benefits including a staff discount on grocery orders with groceries.
Organic farming helps promote biodiversity by free deliveries on certain days, encouraging our employees using crop rotation and clover to build soil fertility.
with to be greener shoppers, discount shopping membership, a organic farming there are strict rules around animal welfare discounted staff shop, pension, life assurance, healthcare and and how food is produced.
Soil Association: Ocado supports the soil association, a charity that campaigns for sustainable food and farming.
Tetanus Vaccines for UNICEF: Ocado makes donations to uniCef, the childrens charity, in the form of tetanus vaccines through the sales to its customers of certain fairy and pampers products.
in the last two years, Ocado customers donated nearly one million tetanus vaccines as part of the pampers uniCef campaign.
in 2012 Ocado hopes to bring this to a total of 1.5 million vaccines.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Corporate social responsibility report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 26 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Corporate social responsibility report continued Engaging our people Ocados people have a range of skills and experience.
we engaged staff help us to continue to be successful and grow.
work hard to provide opportunities to move around the Ocado uses an annual formal employee survey administered business where appropriate and provide training to develop across the whole business to measure levels of employee skills for current and future roles.
Our in-house training team engagement and identify the areas where we can become a deliver customer focused training that prioritises the health better employer.
and safety of our people and meets individual needs.
we have created and rolled-out a new management development we continue to hold regular events, such as our annual programme, which gives our employees the opportunity family fun day, inter-spoke football tournament, charity to progress their careers.
we have also implemented new golf day, woodland trust tree plant team days, business appraisal processes and succession plans.
results briefings and our Christmas parties.
these reinforce our informal, relaxed culture and promote our family and Attracting talent community focus.
we rely on talented people with drive and dedication to deliver excellent customer service.
this is why we are careful Ocados employees are kept well informed of the to recruit the right people for the right roles.
Our graduate performance of the group and key events concerning programme plays an important part in developing talented the business through regular staff briefings provided by people for our future, and our careers website and online management and through communications via the internet, applicant tracker system allows timely recruitment of talented email and video and audio recordings which are particularly people for business growth.
helpful for communicating with our large number of Cstms.
it is hoped that such briefings and information will help our Ocado jobs employees become aware of the various factors that affect during the period, the average number of employees the Companys performance.
employed by the group increased significantly to 5,180 employees, excluding agency workers 2010: 4,252.
Giving our people a voice the Ocado Council, which is the Ocado employee Diversity of our people representative body, helps facilitate employee participation we are committed to equal opportunities for all of and consultation in our rapidly growing business.
the Ocado our people, regardless of disability or background, from Council was formed in January 2010 and currently comprises recruitment and selection, through training and development 51 council representatives from across the business.
we value diversity and through our equal Ocado Councils achievements over its two years of existence opportunities policy we are dedicated to creating an include a review of incentives, involvement in changes to environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and terms and conditions of employment, performance reviews, victimisation, where everyone is treated equally regardless of organisational changes and physical working environment age, colour, disability, race, sexual orientation, marital status, improvements.
a new Ocado Council registrar was appointed political views or religious belief.
it is the policy of the group that applications for employment by in november 2011, Ocado signed a voluntary union disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the recognition agreement with the trade union, union of shop, respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
in distributive and allied workers usdaw in relation the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable effort to our hourly paid employees, including our personal is made to ensure that their employment within the group shoppers, Cstms and lgv drivers.
this means that usdaw continues.
it is the policy of the group that the training, career representatives will participate on the Ocado Council to development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far voice the views of our hourly paid employees on matters as possible, be identical to that of an able bodied person.
relating to pay, holiday entitlements and working hours.
Social and community issues Developing our people Charitable donations every employee plays a part in the Companys success and in 2010 Ocado established a charity committee made up we are focused on developing our people to the best of their of eight employees, which increased to twelve employees in abilities.
when joining the business employees undertake a april 2011. the chosen charity for the period was macmillan thorough induction which includes training related to their Cancer support, which was elected by Ocado employees role and orientation around different areas of the business.
though the annual employee survey described above.
during the period, the charity committee organised a number of events, including quiz nights, a summer charity ball, a cake sale and Christmas raffle.
com 27 Ocado employees raised almost 29,000 for a number of Re-Wrap: Ocado is currently producing canvas tote bags charities, including macmillan Cancer support 24,056 for customers with re-wrap.
re-wrap is a not-for-profit donated, the british heart foundation 2,770 donated, organisation which works with disadvantaged families in india and made donations under 2,000 to the nspCC and the who produce the bags.
the materials used are sustainable Japan appeal.
and recycled textiles and eco-friendly dyes.
re-wrap are also a member of the world fair trade Organisation.
by working in addition to the money raised by its employees, Ocado with re-wrap, Ocado is helping to sustain disadvantaged made charitable donations during the period of 29,250 families in india, retaining traditional indian craft and 2010: 14,000 which includes 20,000 to peace winds supporting fair trade practices.
described below, 5,000 sponsorship of a visit from lech walesa, the former first president of poland, for migrant at JAMI: Ocado donated a significant number of desktop home magazine as well as donations of less than 2,000 computers to the registered mental health charity, Jami.
to peace One day, Ctt, Credit action, the pwC partners the desktop computers were being replaced as part of the Charity walk and various charity events.
some of these upgrades to the Ocado customer call centre.
charitable initiatives are described below.
the group also donates money to the waitrose foundation Japan Appeal: Ocado established an appeal to raise money for and the princes Charities foundation, as noted above.
a Japanese charity called peace winds, who were helping over 300,000 people affected by the Japan tsunami and earthquake Political donations and subsequent fukushima power plant evacuation in march no political donations were made by the group to any 2011 by providing emergency food and blankets.
Ocado political party, organisation or candidate during the period appealed to its customers and staff for donations and 2010: nil.
promised to match the first 20,000 raised.
the Ocado appeal raised over 250,000 for peace winds.
Peace One Day: peace One day is a non-profit organisation which has established a ceasefire and non-violence day that occurs on 21 september each year.
they are committed to raising global awareness of the peace day through education and encouraging the global community to take action.
Ocado is supporting this organisation by funding peace One days uK citizenship resource pack for secondary schools.
Ocado funded a full time out-reach coordinator for three months to help schools use these resources: which were delivered to 31,500 students.
in the next year, Ocado intends to support the creation by peace One day of a new resource for primary school children.
Christmas food donations: each Christmas, Ocado donates food for hampers to charities helping impoverished communities across the country.
in the period, Ocado donated food to dens, a charity based in hemel hempstead, shOC based in reading and action for Children in bristol.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Corporate social responsibility report Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
