Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 22 Corporate and Social Responsibility Ophir focuses in the following areas: Environment Health and Safety Education Community Development Environment: Before initiating any exploration project Ophir conducts Ophir is committed to taking an active part in the comprehensive and integrated development of the countries in which it operates.
These assessments are The Company conducts its operations in an ethical, repeated at each stage of the project responsible, apolitical, independent and transparent using recognised consultants and way.
We manage our Corporate and Social Responsibility methods.
As a part of this process Ophir consults with local authorities, CSR with the same principles underlying the conduct NGOs and communities to ensure of our core activities, which are determination, innovation we are in compliance with both and excellence.
industry best practices and any applicable local regulations and guidelines.
Our environmental All of Ophirs employees and Ophir operates in regions offering plan is implemented in association contractors are encouraged to a great variety of geographical, with our Corporate Health, Safety work to the highest standards.
cultural, economic and social & Environmental Manual.
These standards are reviewed and environments.
Africa is a mosaic of set by the Ophir HSE Committee countries with contrasting levels of One of our initiatives for the which takes responsibility for development, regulations, languages, conservation of the environment monitoring group-level health, traditions and expectations.
Our has been to support a research safety, security and environmental long-term involvement with our project in the Western Sahara.
HSSE risk assessments in addition host countries and local partners, Since 2006 we have contributed to to reviewing reports on serious as well as our multicultural team, archaeological research conducted accidents and fatalities to ensure are instrumental in ensuring we during various field missions by that management is responding keep in tune and maintain an the University of East Anglia appropriately.
The Committee also effective dialogue in line with our United Kingdom in the Tifariti ensures that the Company is fully business objectives.
This compliant by commissioning programme represents a valuable periodic independent audits on Ophir believes its presence is felt contribution to the preservation HSE matters.
positively by its hosts as the and knowledge of historical Company strives to create value occupation in Western Sahara.
locally, benefiting not only the employees but the community at Reports and photos can be viewed large.
The Company ensures its on http: www.
projects will bring opportunities uk e118 WS WSahara.
and its investment will make a positive difference.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 23 Ophir sponsored and provided the materials for an art competition between a number of schools in Mtwara.
Health and safety: Ophirs operations are conducted in accordance with local and international health and safety best practices.
The Company offices in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea have implemented Ophir fully sponsored the Ophir has also been active in mosquito eradication programmes.
construction of a two classroom Tanzania for a number of years.
nursery school equipped with 20 Ophir has invested in excess of Ophir also provides internationally desks in the village of Ebein US$10 million in the development accredited driving and first aid Yenkeng in the Niefang Region, of the Mtwara port.
Approximately courses to all local employees as Central South Equatorial Guinea.
half of this sum was spent in the part of the comprehensive training Stage 1 has been completed: Stage local community providing a major programme tailored for the staff.
As expected the Ophir also expects its subcontractors entire project was backed up by and suppliers to provide a safe and Ophir is funding a cultural exchange a comprehensive Environmental healthy working environment for programme between Gabon and Impact Assessment.
their employees and to provide South Africa under the auspices appropriate training and personal of the South African Embassy for Ophir has an office in Mtwara.
the Nelson Mandela School During its recent drilling campaign in Libreville.
offshore Tanzania Ophir provided Education: Ophir encourages an accommodation in Mtwara for over atmosphere of continuous Community development: Ophir is 60 workers.
The Company proud to help local communities people during the drilling phase contributes to the ITNHGE develop in its project areas.
Ophir rented 13 residential Programme, a collaborative properties.
Prior to occupation all educational initiative run for the In Equatorial Guinea, where Ophir of the properties underwent a full benefit of adult students in has invested heavily over the last refurbishment to ensure they were Equatorial Guinea.
A group of 46 few years, we have been actively fully compliant with international students enrolled in the full time involved in community development.
As a result of intensive English programme and In addition to the construction of this work the landlords have seen completed their first semester in a school details above we have the value of their rented properties May 2008 in Malabo.
also acquired and installed four increase substantially a good electricity generators into result for both parties.
Ophir runs a comprehensive training hospitals in Evinayong, Kogo programme for the Equatorial Mbini and Acurenam.
Ophir has also supported other Guinean staff consisting of English schemes in the Mtwara port town.
language courses as well as IT and For example it has begun funding word processing classes.
Funds go towards providing essential drugs and baby equipment.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 24 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued the winning students with rucksacks and stationery supplies on behalf of Ophir.
All students were awarded certificates of participation to show Ophirs appreciation for taking part in this initiative.
Further to this, each school was presented On 21 December 2011, devastating Ophir sponsored a local art with a cheque from the Regional floods hit parts of the city of Dar es competition in Mtwara from 30 Commissioner on behalf of Salaam, Tanzania, impacting the January 2012 to 3 February 2012 Ophir, for an amount depending lives of many local people, some that provided primary school on where they were placed in the losing not only their properties and students in grades 5 to 7 with the competition.
Ophir hopes that this belongings, but also having to deal opportunity to learn about the oil donation will assist the schools in with the loss of lives due to the and gas industry and its benefits to maintaining a high standard of tragic event.
education for the youth of Mtwara.
Many of those affected by the floods They were then given the chance to In 2010, Ophir Congo Marine IX were relocated to the Mabwepande express their knowledge and Limited and joint venture partners area in Bunju Juu, north of Dar es thoughts of the industry through Premier Oil plc and Kufpec Congo Salaam.
It was planned that around art.
Throughout the process, Marine IX Limited began funding 2,000 families would relocate to this regional officials, teachers and a community project in the remote area, where temporary shelters were parents guardians were also village of Tchisseka, Brazzaville, set up by the Red Cross until more encouraged to learn more about Congo.
The first stage of this project permanent arrangements could Ophir and the oil and gas industry consisted of funding the restoration be made.
and its contribution to the of the Tchisseka Health Care Centre.
The theme of the Restoration began on 30 August, To assist in the relocation efforts competition was, What does the 2010, with the completely restored Ophir Energy has donated 30 water oil and gas industry look like mean Tchisseka Health Care Centre being storage tanks with a capacity of to you?
delivered to the population of 5,000 litres each to the site.
These Tchisseka on 10 January 2011. tanks will be used to move and store A total of 60 students participated water, thus securing adequate in the competition, 15 from four The second stage of this social sanitation which is vital to prevent schools in Mtwara, these schools project is underway at the disease and ensure the survival of including Chuno Primary School: moment.
This stage involves the the flood victims.
Ophir Energy is Ligula Primary School: Mivinjeni construction of an accommodation committed to supporting the Primary School and Shangani site for the doctors and nurses set communities in this time of need.
to work in the Tchisseka Health Care Centre.
The facility will be Ophir is currently assessing the best After all the entries had been equipped with solar panels providing way to contribute to community submitted, Ophirs judging panel electrical supplies for sustainability development and to support agreed on those which they thought and because of the remoteness of local initiatives via a charitable were the most creative and the this facility.
Construction of the programme which would channel winners were selected.
The Regional accommodation unit is continuing future donations to individuals Commissioner attended the award and is expected to be completed or small organisations.
ceremony for all schools, presenting in May 2012. BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 25 Helping out with the provision of materials and facilities for education is one of the worthwhile contributions Ophir makes to the communities in which it works, the benefits of which are immediate and obvious.
HSE highlights The high levels of Ophir Energy Ophir is working to further expand its HSE and CSR operated exploration activities reporting procedures by widening the scope of experienced in 2010 spilled over reporting to include all services companies and into 2011.
During 2011 the Company carried out a number of drilling and contractor personnel.
These exploration activities are shore base at Mtwara.
Also in security plan was used not only summarised below and were Tanzania in late Q4 2011 we to ensure safe conditions in the completed without any significant initiated a Fugro 3D seismic drilling area, it was also used to occupational health and safety programme in the Ophir operated protect the personnel and assets incidents LTIs or offshore security East Pande block.
This seismic was during the mobilisation and incidents piracy.
With regard completed in early 2012.
The demobilisation phase as people to HSE issues in general it is operations in Tanzania were all and equipment were moved into important to highlight that several subject to the normal EIA and the project area from the Gulf of of Ophirs exploration projects piracy risk assessments.
Guinea and back out of the are carried out in offshore areas The security plans were project area on completion of affected by Somali piracy risk, successfully enforced using a the well.
The Kora 1 drilling therefore Ophir and its contractors close partnership of Tanzanian programme was completed with meticulously plan and execute a Navy and private security zero LTIs.
full security plan offshore to protect contractors operating with strict personnel and assets.
Although rules of engagement and 3.
Gabon Ophir planned EIA acts of piracy are reported to occur behaving in accordance with the completed and risk assessments on a fairly regular basis in the UNs voluntary principles on carried out and initiated a 3D Somali Basin Indian Ocean, none human rights.
of these incidents has adversely The programme was concluded affected Ophirs operations.
A GC Senegal Guinea Bissau without incident in February Ophir drilled one well offshore 2012.
2011 HSE operational summary Senegal Guinea Bissau in the 1.
Tanzania Drilling in Blocks 1 joint development zone known Corporately the Ophir Energy Group and 4 carried over into Q 12 as the AGC.
Prior to drilling a recorded a zero rate for LTIs over of 2011.
This Ophir Energy consultation process including the 2011 calendar year.
operated drilling was carried out a compliant EIA was issued simultaneously with shooting of including oil spill response Ophir is working to further expand 3D seismic in the same areas.
planning and safety risk its HSE and CSR reporting In addition to normal HSE assessments narco - trafficking procedures by widening the scope considerations these activities robbery.
A security plan was of reporting to include all services required a high degree of designed and executed in companies and contractor maritime security co-ordination conjunction with service personnel employed on projects given the current risk of piracy companies rig and supply and to further refine the Company in the region.
Mid-year Ophir vessels and HASSMAR KPIs it employs in these reporting handed over operatorship of Senegalese body responsible procedures.
Ophir expects to Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to the BG Group, for the environment and security complete these changes within this included operatorship of the of its offshore areas.
