36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our impact on society This framework is a good one for Pearson and in We believe our thepages that follow, we set out the commitments wehave made and the actions we are taking around commercial goals and the company.
We are pleased that our commitment and in our social purpose are particular the efforts of our people continue toberecognised by authorities in the eld.
oursector and achieved gold status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and were ranked Platinum level inBusiness in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
Still, our company and our industries faced challenges in 2011.
We contributed to the Leveson Inquiry into the culture, practices and ethics of the UK press: ThePearson Foundation was the subject of some public criticism which it, and we, believe is misplaced : and the UKs examination boards, including our own Edexcel, faced intense media and political scrutiny.
We have learnt from all those issues, and many others Last year, we set out a new responsibility framework besides.
In fact our motto always learning does set for Pearson: out the way we try to think and operate as acompany.
We start with our company strategy and purpose.
We therefore welcome comments and feedback Pearson is a commercial organisation with a social onthis aspect of the company as we do any other.
purpose: to help people make progress in their lives Please e-mail me at robin.
We believe our commercial goals orcontact our head of corporate responsibility, and our social purpose are mutually reinforcing and PeterHughes, at peter.
com with that our financial strength provides the means for anyquestions or thoughts you may have.
We focus on three key issues of social and economic importance where we believe Pearson canmake a unique contribution.
They are literacy, learning outcomes and competitiveness.
Beyond those three issues, we have a wider Robin Freestone Chief financial officer agendafor responsible business practice that covers and Board member responsible for corporate our interest in nurturing diversity, investment in responsibility community partnerships, supply chain management and environmental responsibility.
We recognise that our approach to responsible business is grounded in our company values, ethics and behaviour.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Our impact on society 37 Overview We believe that there is no one single denition of responsible business practice that can be applied to every company.
Instead, we have developed our own responsible business framework to reect who we areas a company, what we do and the expectations that our investors, customers and the people that work at Pearson have of us.
Our approach is dynamic, shaped and inuenced by the priorities and views of our many stakeholders.
Our purpose To help people of all ages to progress through their lives through learning Our focus Three priority issues RAISING IMPROVING CONTRIBUTING LITERACY LEVELS LEARNING OUTCOMES TO COMPETITIVENESS 123 where we can make the most difference At home Our programmes Personal progress In the classroom Closing achievement gaps Informed business With our partners Sharing what works Business strategy LONG-TERM ORGANIC DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION EFFICIENCY INVESTMENT IN CONTENT SERVICES BUSINESSES To learn more about our business strategy, visit the Our strategy section, page 08 in this report Responsible business practice SUPPLY CHAIN ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE OUR CUSTOMERS COMMUNITIES MANAGEMENT Our values BRAVE, IMAGINATIVE, DECENT 38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our impact on society continued Our three priority issues: Case study: Bug Club RAISING LITERACY LEVELS 1 Bug Club is a ground-breaking whole-school reading programme that links 300 books with Through our products and partnerships, we play anonline reading world to teach todays children animportant part in helping people to learn to toread.
It is phonics-based, which means students readand to enjoy reading.
learn to read by recognising letters and words According to the most recent gures from 2009, through sounds.
Bug Club is carefully graded to nearly 800 million adults lack basic literacy skills allow individual students to develop and progress two-thirds of whom are women.
Good reading skills at their own pace.
Bug Club is available in Australia, are the basic cornerstone that help all of us progress Hong Kong and Russia as well as the UK.
Bug Club throughout our lives.
won the Best Use of Multimedia award at the British Book Design and Production Awards 2011.
Our businesses all depend on the premise that peoplecan read, want to learn and enjoy doing it.
Wetherefore have a keen interest in doing allwecanto nurture enthusiastic readers.
Our approach We play a part in three main ways: Our reading programmes both print and digital are found in classrooms the world over.
For many, the first story that they read or that is read aloud to them will be a Penguin title.
We partner with others to run projects and campaigns to give books and to promote reading.
Reading in the classroom We have a full range of reading programmes designed to help students to learn to read.
Whether these are print or online, whole-school or for students that need extra help, they all reect our commitment to improving reading standards for individual learners.
Case study: iLit inspire literacy Pearsons iLit programme is like no other reading programme.
Designed for struggling readers, it is the first reading programme built and delivered completely on the iPad.
It supports, rewards, engages and instructs based around the learning needs of the individual student.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Our impact on society 39 Reading in the home Our three priority issues: Enthusiastic readers are inspired by great stories, IMPROVING LEARNING OUTCOMES 2 welldesigned.
Our Penguin books for children Our responsibility as a company is to play our full part Puffin, Frederick Warne and Ladybird books all in informing, shaping and making learning effective for provide plenty of options.
This focus on learning outcomes Children today read in many ways: at home and on the isacritical part of our responsibility vision.
We believe in offering stories that are beautiful, engaging and fun, regardless of format.
In the past, there were limitations on the extent towhich a textbook publisher selling products to Case study: DK My first ABC education institutions could measure their impact on learning outcomes.
As our transition towards being One of the great opportunities presented by mobile an education technology and solutions provider devices is to reach learners at home andon the gathers pace, so do the opportunities to help move.
As part of the launch of Apples education understand what works best to help students iBookstore, we published four interactive DK titles succeed.
We recognise this as we become more including My first ABC.
Through widgets, video, directly involved in the process of learning, and more animations and questions, the book breaks new accountable for outcomes.
ground for parents to help achild to learn their rstwords.
We have: Appointed Sir Michael Barber as Chief education advisor.
As part of his role, Michael will oversee ourefforts on improving learning outcomes.
Convened our first global research conference bringing together and sharing good practice among the research community withinPearson.
Incorporated improving learning outcomes as one Partnering with others to encourage reading ofthe five core themes we debated at our annual A parent reading aloud with their children is one of the strategy conference.
most powerful ways to boost vocabulary and language Appointed a network of business champions to take development, according to research we commissioned forward our developing agenda.
as part of our Booktime programme.
Access to books providing opportunities for shared reading is vitally Piloted a new tool to help us assess learning outcomes.
We will: This year, we have brought together a range of initiatives to give books to promote reading under Set up an online portal to bring together all the theWe Give Books banner.
2011 saw us achieve some research we commission from around the world important milestones.
We gave our six millionth book intoasingle searchable site.
under our Booktime programme, which sees every child in England starting school receive a book pack Further extend our pilot into assessing learning containing two free books from Penguin and Pearson outcomes.
Primary to take home, read and keep.
And we are Start to map by product, service and geography about to give our one millionth book to Book Aid, the ourapproach to assessing learning impacts.
charity that supports the development of libraries in schools and local communities in sub-Saharan Africa.
Establish a Pearson Executive Research Council to One in five of the books donated to Book Aid came oversee the approach, process and consistency of from Pearson, helping benefit more than 2,000 commissioning and using research within Pearson.
Run an internal awareness campaign on this aspect ofthe responsibility agenda within the company.
40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our impact on society continued We continue to devote significant resources Case study: UK examination awarding bodies toimproving student success and institutional Since becoming involved in the English effectiveness by: examinations system in 2003 through acquiring theawarding body Edexcel, Pearson has drawn Ensuring that our own education programmes oncross-company technological and assessment aredeveloped and assessed for quality, efficacy expertise to make major strategic investments andusability.
inon-screen marking and other sector-leading We work closely with teachers, students, researchers initiatives.
Through this investment, Edexcel has and others to ensure our programmes are assessed.
built a reputation for innovation and reliability inthe UK qualications sector.
Helping close achievement gaps for individual A series of media reports in December called into learnersand schools.
question the integrity and credibility of the exams Pearson is investing in new models of education system based on an investigation into events for tosetup or support schools and districts by helping to teachers run by the major awarding organisations make fundamental changes and sustain improvements in the UK.
We draw on Pearsons research and We have recognised that changes need to be made proven resources including curriculum, assessment, to the way awarding bodies hold and manage technology, and teacher professional development events and have introduced a series of changes to products and services.
enable a much greater degree of transparency and public scrutiny.
These changes include events being Case study: Bridge International recorded and audited.
Our statements can be Academies in Kenya viewed at: http: bit.
We have also Bridge academies offers quality schooling for launched a major public consultation programme lessthan $4 per month.
How to extend access on the future direction of standards in the toquality schooling as an affordable option for education system in the UK at: theworlds poorest people is a vitally important http: www.
Pearson is a significant minority investor inBridge, and views the Bridge model as having thepotential for providing low-cost schooling in otherparts of the world as well.
We have made acommitment for 2012 to look to further invest innew low-cost, sustainable solutions to schooling, inviting others to partner with us.
Learning outcomes are key metrics in our investment model.
Supporting teacher education and development.
We work with teachers to improve teaching effectiveness providing content and services that help teachers develop from their earliest undergraduate experiences and throughout their teaching careers.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Our impact on society 41 Case study: Educator effectiveness, Case study: CTI Education Group, South Africa Pearson North America CTI Education Group, a leading private higher A priority for Pearson is to help teachers education group in South Africa serving more than understand and improve their performance 9,000 students, has consistently produced a pass rate whats working, what isnt, and what they need to of more than 80% every year and has, over the last do to continuously improve their impact on ten years, placed between 75% and 95%of its student learning.
By giving teachers the insight they graduates into jobs within four months ofcompleting need, they can set their own improvement plans their course.
and in turn reach students in ever more meaningful ways.
In 2011, we launched our educator effectiveness programme in the US to offer this Case study: Pearson Test of English service.
By bringing together classroom English language ability can often be the passport observation, student performance data, peer towork or academic opportunity for many, reviews and performance surveys, it is possible to non-native speakers of English.
The Pearson Test of start to develop tailored support for educators English is designed to help demonstrate that ability.
The test can be taken in a network of centres in http: .
nearly 50 countries from Australia to Venezuela pearsonassessments.
com taking in Brazil, China, Nepal and South Korea along the way.
aspx Our three priority issues: Securing a professional or vocational qualication isanimportant factor in getting a job.
We create CONTRIBUTING TO COMPETITIVENESS 3 andadminister millions of admissions, tests, certications, vocational assessments and general The connection between education and long-term qualications including: economic growth is well-documented and increasingly well understood.
BTEC, the vocational qualification recognised byschools, colleges, universities, employers and Helping individuals get ready for work.
professional bodies across the United Kingdom andinover 100 countries worldwide.
Getting a job depends on having relevant skills.
Atthistime, when many countries are wrestling The Graduate Management Admission Test GMAT, withtheeconomic, social and personal cost of the leading test for entrance to business schools unemployment, particularly for the young, it is even andmanagement programmes worldwide.
more important that we help people develop the skillsthey need for work.
42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our impact on society continued NCLEX Nursing examination, required to obtain Case study: The Financial Times, alicence necessary to apply for work as a nurse active in education intheUnited States.
In a partnership with the Pearson education We also see that the world of work is changing.
businesses, the FTs world-class journalism has Thepace of change is rapid and people starting been made more easily accessible for graduates, worktoday can expect to be doing different types students and professors.
A new trademark licence ofwork demanding different skills over a lifetime.
agreement allows Pearson to use a new database Adult learning is one of our biggest global growth ofover 100,000 FT articles across its products opportunities and we are developing ways to andservices for the education market around helppeople access and develop new skills.
The FT also launched MBA Newslines in 2011, Case study: MyFoundationsLab anew product aimed at business schools that College enrolments in the United States are at enables students, faculty and practitioners from record levels, in part fuelled by people unable to around the world to create and share annotations access the job market.
Many students are arriving on FT articles.
These practical case studies will help on campus and nding they lack the mathematics students to master business, understand financial and English skills needed to do college-level work.
markets or see the political economy MyFoundationsLab is designed to offer students a orinternational law in action.
way to quickly improve their mathematics, reading and writing skills and to avoid expensive remedial teaching programmes.
Doing informed business Case study: Media standards and the The FT Group is the leading provider of essential Leveson Inquiry information, insight and analysis to the global business The Leveson Inquiry is currently investigating the and opinion-forming community.
Access to trusted culture, practices and ethics of the press in the UK.
and informed information is the basis on which We have contributed a written statement to the businesses make effective decisions.
The FT plays inquiry and the editor of the FT presented evidence aunique global role in providing that information.
which is available at www.
The FT has its own ethical code which goes beyond what is required by the current Press Complaints Commission Code.
TheFT Code states that It is fundamental to the integrity and success of the Financial Times that itupholds the highest possible professional and ethical standards of journalism, and is seen to do so.
ft. com  codeofpractice OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Our impact on society 43 Contributing to debate ensure that our products and services are appropriate in content to the age and location of the student and We are committed to playing an active role in helping are safe to use: shape and inform the global debate around education and learning policy.
With the 2015 deadline for provide a safe, healthy workplace, where our achieving the Millennium Development Goals and employees are able to realise their own individual Education for All Goals fast approaching, it is certainly potential and aspirations and where there is respect time to take stock on the role that education has for their privacy, dignity and life outside work: played and should play for thefuture.
We have joined provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good with a range of organisations as an active member of citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
the Global Compact on Learning.
Ways we arehelping include contributing to developing and agreeing Responsible business practice cuts across all aspects common metrics to measure the success ofthe Global of our company and our focus is to integrate this into Compact goals and innovating through new the way we manage our businesses.
qualications and support, such as Edupreneurs Highlights of our activities in 2011 include: away for people to be trained both as teachers andtohelp run schools in the developing world.
Environment: Climate change and avoiding deforestation A key principle for us is that the private sector has Climate change remains a focus for us as one of the animportant contribution to make to developing most serious issues facing the planet.
Minimising our education and learning policy.
However, there is no own environmental impact is not just the right thing global body in place to convene business on this issue.
todo: it isfundamental to our future as a sustainable We are strong advocates of the view that there business and can deliver cost savings too.
isvalue in engaging the wider business community We continue to be climate neutral, a commitment which inacoalition that focuses on the challenges facing has helped focus the company on carbon reduction.
developing countries in education and learning, mirroring the Global Business Coalition on Our second focus area is forests.
We were therefore delighted to support, ofpaper and newsprint for our books, magazines encourage and help found the Global Business andnewspapers, security and sustainability of supply Coalition forEducation under the guidance of arevery important to us.
We have focused on , Gordon Brown.
sustainability sourcing and being more efficient in howwe use paper.
Pearson was named the 33rd largest purchaser Responsible business practice ofrenewable energy in the United States in the We believe Pearson has a unique opportunity to make USEnvironmental Protection Agency Green Power a positive impact in those three focus areas literacy, Partnership list.
We offset 100% of the electricity learning outcomes and competitiveness.
weusein North America through the purchase ofwindpower credits primarily in Iowa.
Our UK In addition, we adopt a broad and holistic denition buildings where we are responsible for purchasing ofresponsible business that captures a series of utilities are powered by green electricity.
priorities that are common across many industries and individual companies.
These include commitments to: Our first wind turbine became operational at our Owatonna office and printing centre in Minnesota.
deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key area of climate change and to seek to make better Pearson businesses in the UK and Australia are useof resources: certified against ISO 14001, the environmental management standard.
In the UK, we are also extend our principles on labour standards, human accredited against the Carbon Trust Standard.
rights and environmental responsibility to include oursuppliers and business partners: We expanded the Pearson FT Rainforest in CostaRica and helped the Woodland Trust launch Woodland Carbon to offset emissions we could noteliminate through other means.
44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Our impact on society continued The Financial Times has reduced the volume of Case study: The Pearson Foundation newsprint and magazine papers it uses by 45% in The Pearson Foundation is an independent fouryears.
A key initiative has been to reduce the charitythat aims to make a difference by promoting base weight of the papers used.
literacy, learning and great teaching.
Pearson is Penguin Group in the UK was ranked seventh in itsmajor but not its only funder.
The Foundation theSunday Times 2011 Best Green Companies list runs a wide range of innovative philanthropic upfrom eleventh in 2010. programmes in the US and around the world, designed to encourage people to read, to support Our customers, our people and our communities great teachers and to share insight into best practice in education.
In 2011 the Foundation was Highlights of our activities in 2011 include: honoured to be awarded the NEA Foundation Pearson continued with its programme of Student Award for Philanthropy in Public Education.
Advisory Boards, providing an opportunity for Still, it was a challenging year forthe Pearson students to input and influence our strategy in Foundation as several media reports criticised returnfor mentoring and company internships.
Mark Nieker, the During 2011, Pearson operations in the UK became President CEO of the Pearson Foundation, accredited against ISO 18001, the international health rejected the allegations and his response can and safety standard.
html Neo, Pearsons employee collaboration platform, As the largest funder of the activities of the Pearson won theEngage Employees category of the Jive Awards Foundation, Pearson has made clear our continued 2011.
On average, 18,000users log on each day.
and ongoing commitment to support and fund the Pearson was again named joint winner of the FTSE valuable work of the charity.
Executive Women Award and included in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women, both run in Values, principles and behaviour partnership with Opportunity Now.
The bedrock of corporate responsibility is the culture Pearson in the US has been included in Working of the company.
We are dened by our values in Mother magazines 100 Best Companies list for everything we do, we aspire to be brave, imaginative itseleventh year and again by the Human Rights and decent.
Campaign which campaigns for equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
Our values are underpinned by our code of conduct that covers, among other things, individual conduct, The Pearson Diversity Summer Internship Programme the environment, employees, community and society.
won the Race for Opportunity the UKs largest race We make sure everyone is aware of and understands equality organisation Award for Widening the the code.
Once a year, everyone working for Pearson TalentPool.
gets a copy, either electronically or on paper, and is Providing an opportunity for our employees to share in asked to read it: to confirm to the Pearson CEO that the success of the company through owning a part of it they have read it and understood it: and in doing so, is important to us.
All our people have the opportunity toprovide a check that the company complies with to acquire and hold Pearson shares through it.
The code forms part of induction and an online participation in our employee share programmes.
If anyone has concerns, these can be raised with a line manager or through The fourth annual Penguin walk took place and almost afree, condential telephone line website.
1,000 Penguin and DK employees from across the Pearson has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and globe from the US to South Africa, from China corruption.
During 2011, we reviewed our approach to toNew Zealand joined forces to raise money combating bribery and corruption reecting changes in forlocal charities.
An updated policy has been introduced The Financial Times seasonal appeal was the most setting out our standards: we carry out risk assessments successful ever, raising $4.9 million on behalf and have a network of designated managers across the ofSightsavers, the charity that fights blindness business responsible for compliance with our policy.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Our impact on society 45 We are committed to making sure our people External benchmarks understand how we are doing as a company, including One way we assess how we are doing as a responsible how world trends might affect both them and the business is to maintain our position in key indices and businesses.
This means providing comprehensive benchmarks of social responsibility: relevant information in a variety of ways including regular presentations from senior executives and 2011 2010 2009 2008 consulting where appropriate so that we can learn Dow Jones Global sector leader andtake into account the views of our people.
We Sustainability Indexes willalways aim to seek the best candidate for a role: BITC Corporate Platinum Platinum career progression will be without regard for race, Platinum Responsibility Index retained sector leader gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual Inclusion in orientation: and we will continue to monitor and Yes FTSE4Good benchmark our progress on diversity and inclusion.
Seven key commitments We have established seven challenging aspirations andtargets to help focus the business on achieving ourresponsible business vision while minimising our environmental impact.
We believe this is a responsible and sustainable approach.
We will be expanding andreviewing these commitments as we develop ourapproach.
ENVIRONMENT Challenges Climate change Resource use Avoiding global deforestation Our To maintain our commitment To be ever more efficient in how To use FSC papers where we can commitment 1 to climate neutrality 2 we use paper as the most significant 3 and our own grading system natural resource for us How we Through carbon reduction: purchase of We track the metric tonnes of We track and report the FSC volume we measure renewable energy: renewable energy paper required to generate 1m of purchase and the grading system we use progress generation at our sites and the purchase non-digital revenue see chart below to meet our requirement to purchase of carbon offsets from known, responsible sources Electricity from renewable sources Paper usage We publish a paper report in April 11 166,900 Mwh 11 77 metric tonnes 10 170,700 Mwh 10 84 metric tonnes 09 170,229 Mwh 09 87 metric tonnes 08 3,255 Mwh 08 105 metric tonnes Climate change data is published in April 75% of electricity is from renewable sources SOCIAL Challenges Investing in content Access to learning, Literacy literacy and great teaching Our To make sustained To maintain our total Using 2010 asour base, Growing take-up commitment 4 investment in new content 5 community investment 6 to expand our book 7 of digital-based at 1%or more of gifting activities reading operating profit How we Pre-publication expenditure One way we extend our reach Number of books donated Unlike traditional measure and authors advances is through partnerships with to schools, libraries and print programmes, we progress literacy and learning charities.
literacy charities can track the number We report on our community of users of our digital investment spend reading programmes Investing in content Community investment spend Number of books donated Reading programmes 11 $794m 11 11.5m 1.2% 11 1.99m Bug Club: 145,000 10 $816m 10 1.66m 10 13.1m 1.6% SuccessMaker: 3.1m 09 $794m 09 10.5m 1.4% 09 1.71m Waterford: 2.9m 08 $775m 08 7.7m 1.1% 08 1.74m Last year we set a series of plans for 2011.
We report on our progress against those plans as part of our online Impact on Society report at http: cr2011.
com Some 2011 projects were funded in 2010
