Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility Our commitment to corporate responsibility At Pennon Group the nature of our two operating businesses places corporate responsibility at the heart of our activities.
Both South West Water and Viridor have a significant role to play in ensuring the environmental, social and economic wellbeing of the communities in which they operate.
Delivering operational excellence in the form of industrySouth West Water and Viridor are responsible for including leading drinking and bathing water quality: and low leakage corporate responsibility objectives and targets within their figures, are key environmental and social achievements for own business plans which are aligned to these Group South West Water.
Viridors growing recycling and energy objectives.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee has recovery operations, alongside its focus on proactive a wide-ranging responsibility for reviewing the two main environmental management systems and responsible land operating businesses strategies, policies, targets and stewardship, clearly demonstrate how embracing the green performance against these objectives and targets.
agenda has been good for business.
Pennon Groups corporate responsibility KPIs At Group level the Board has established a range of corporate for 2010 11 covered: responsibility objectives that drive the targets of both renewable energy generation companies.
These are to: greenhouse gas emissions data Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and successful recycling volumes business for the benefit of shareholders and other community support, sponsorship and donations stakeholders.
RIDDOR accident statistics Aim to ensure that all our business activities have capital investment.
a positive economic, social and environmental impact The Groups performance against these KPIs is detailed on the communities in which we operate.
Engage with all our stakeholders and to foster good These are the key issues that drive our approach to relationships with them.
Full details of our Social and Environmental Strive for the highest standards of health and safety in Policy and our Ethical Business Policy that underpin them may the workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents be found at pennon-group.
co. uk where the full 2011 Corporate and lost time.
Responsibility Reports for South West Water and Viridor will also be published, in July and August respectively.
Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and ensure that they are fully engaged in all aspects This summary report on corporate responsibility covers of Pennon Groups objectives.
our main activities in the areas of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that contribute to climate change and develop climate 1.
Environmental sustainability change adaptation strategies.
We strive to make a positive contribution to environmental sustainability by focusing on the interlinked concerns Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention of improving the environment, minimising the Groups and resource efficiency.
carbon footprint and increasing resource efficiency through focusing on: Green energy generated Gigawatt hours GWh On-site electricity use in Pennon Group Gigawatt hours GWh 2010 11 752.00 13.79 2010 11 249.30 48.07 2009 10 637.20 14.80 2009 10 265.20 26.50 2008 09 505.02 18.07 2008 09 260.70 19.00 2007 08 499.07 17.04 2007 08 258.63 10.94 2006 07 444.29 15.98 2006 07 268.28 21.70 South West Water Viridor South West Water Viridor 28 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility KPIs South West Water Viridor Renewable energy generation 13.79GWh 752GWh Greenhouse gas emissions data 152,416tCO e 1,735,889tCO e 2 2 Recycling volumes 52,400 tonnes of dry solids 1,717,512 tonnes Community support, sponsorship and donations: 0.2m Viridor Credits 9.9m South West Water Community Sponsorship Fund 79,671 actual number 24 actual number 62 RIDDOR accident statistics 2,008 per 100,000 employees 2,049 per 100,000 employees Capital investment 125.1m 73.7m Pennon Community support, sponsorship and donations: 1 Pennon Environmental Fund 72,043 Pennon Charitable Donations Committee 78,678 1 Pennon Environmental Fund is a subset of Viridor Credits a.
Climate change greenhouse gases Instances of significant and successful environmental During 2010 11 South West Water achieved a 0.7% reduction improvement projects during the year by South West Water in emissions from energy use compared with the previous year.
include a record 90.3% of designated bathing waters in its It also generated 13.8GWh through capturing and processing region meeting the EU Guideline or excellent standard, methane gas from Anaerobic Digestion AD plants at waste up from 84% in 2009, while 96.5% passed the mandatory water treatment works and from hydro-electric power plants.
South West Water made good progress in the development The company has increased the breadth of its Upstream of renewable energy systems with major overhaul and control Thinking strategy following the successful completion of the system replacements for its larger sewage gas combined Exmoor Mires Restoration pilot project, which was reported heat and power plants to give improved reliability and on in last years report.
It has enlarged its work on Exmoor, increased outputs.
launched the Mires project for Dartmoor and extended its work with farmers and other landowners to promote good During 2010 11 it received the Certified Emissions and catchment management.
All these initiatives aim to provide Measurement and Reduction Standard CEMARS, long-term improvements in water quality and control water recognising the rigour of its emission reductions over the last treatment costs.
The Exmoor Mires restoration project has three years and its plans for the future.
received a national Golden Green Apple Award.
Viridors dedicated internal carbon management function Under its Business Management System Viridor sets clear oversees compliance with the Carbon Reduction Commitment annual targets for continual improvement in its environmental Energy Efficiency Scheme CRCEES, pursues energy performance, including targets to enhance biodiversity and efficiency and carbon reduction initiatives and ensures habitat creation on its landholdings.
The work of previous continual improvements in external carbon disclosure.
years came to fruition with the awarding of the Wildlife Trusts Carbon management training has been provided to senior Biodiversity Benchmark at three of the companys closed management throughout the company.
Further training and landfill sites.
Land management plans have been developed active involvement opportunities are being made available at these sites to ensure that the biodiversity action plan to all employees over the coming year.
targets are met by protecting and enhancing the habitats and species found there.
This scheme recognises that the A number of energy efficiency projects at some of the companys landholdings, particularly closed landfill sites, companys most energy-intensive sites continue.
Significant can have significant benefits to plants and wildlife.
More energy savings, with associated carbon reductions, are sites have been identified to achieve the standard.
expected to be realised throughout 2011 12.
Viridor continued to invest in mitigating the potential adverse Towards the end of 2010 the nationwide installation of impacts of landfill-generated leachate and gas, with an Automated Meter Reading smart meters commenced, additional 2.2 million invested in leachate control systems with completion expected during the first half of 2011. and 7.7 million in landfill gas control and power generation.
Data from these will drive energy awareness and energy Landfill operations and associated impacts continue to efficiency measures.
decline as Viridor focuses on realising the value of waste through its recycling and energy recovery activities.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility Our commitment to corporate responsibility continued For the first time, the Carbon Saver Gold Standard was Viridor has fully embraced the green agenda as a key driver achieved by two of Viridors departments and the company for its business activities, particularly its twin focus on is awaiting confirmation of a third.
This was most notable as recycling and energy recovery.
Today 46% of its profits come one is at its polymers recycling facility in Skelmersdale which through recovering the value in waste and these activities are is Viridors most significant energy-intensive operation.
continuing to grow rapidly as a proportion of its business.
This is because the best uses of waste produced by society Viridor is a major player in the renewable energy sector which after waste prevention and reuse are recycling followed by is helping the UK to meet its landfill diversion and renewable the generation of renewable energy, either through AD or by energy targets.
During 2010 11 the company increased its controlled combustion.
electricity generation capacity from landfill gas to 108MW up from 100MW the previous year and from 27MW in 2002.
The companys recycling activities saw it achieve 1.7 million traded tonnes of high-quality recyclate in 2010 11, up from In doing so it also prevented 86% of the methane produced by just 100,000 tonnes in 2001.
This was an increase from the its landfill operations, which is 21 times as damaging as CO, 2 1.4 million tonnes traded in 2009 10, driven by acquisitions, from entering the atmosphere.
By recycling an ever-growing new and existing recycling-led contracts and the second full proportion of the materials and waste it manages, or by using year of operation for the waste management joint venture it in its energy recovery operations, the company prevents 25-year PFI contract in Greater Manchester.
Viridors Energy further landfill gases from being generated and also releases from Waste EfW output was also boosted by the first the value in waste for the benefit of our investors.
operational year of its joint venture, its Lakeside EfW plant c. Resource productivity near Heathrow.
With current investment projects set to go live South West Waters quality and environmental management in the near future, and others now consented, the company systems help ensure that wastes are minimised and has a target of 300MW of renewable energy capacity by 2015. segregated for recycling.
The company works with partners 2.
Social sustainability and contractors to minimise the quantities of waste produced Pennon Group and both our two main businesses strive to and its sites have effective waste management procedures be good neighbours and consult fully with all stakeholders, in place.
including employees, customers, shareholders and the Alongside a range of other resource efficiency programmes communities in which we operate.
the company delivered a further 3.1GWh energy-saving South West Waters focus is on achieving the appropriate through initiatives across the business such as its balance between its customers, investors and other PowerDown challenge.
It is therefore particularly important that it promotes practical ways of helping those of its customers who are struggling to pay their water bills.
During 2010 11 it successfully extended its range of initiatives to help them do so see page 11 of the Business review.
30 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Governance Financial statements For historical and geographical reasons the South West Water Both businesses get involved with, and support, local region contains 30% of the countrys bathing waters but just communities in the areas in which they provide services.
Consequently the companys customers This support is provided via staff involvement, direct have faced the highest charges for water and sewerage.
assistance or sponsorship of community events and projects.
The company has continued to lobby the Government for Viridor provided 9.9 million of funding during the year for this unfairness to be addressed and is encouraged by the community and environmental projects through the Landfill proposals being consulted on by Defra in response to the Communities Fund via Viridor Credits.
It has also made significant progress during the year in reducing the number of complaints it received 3.
Economic sustainability and in reducing the number of times customers needed to Pennon Group plans and invests to deliver long-term value make contact.
for investors while minimising environmental impact.
Prudent financial control means we are also benefiting from the waste South West Water values its employees and acknowledges and water industries lowest costs of finance, enabling the the importance of the contribution that they make to its greatest possible proportion of revenues to be reinvested or business.
The company ran a number of initiatives during the realised as value for our investors and other stakeholders.
year aimed at supporting their career progress and assuring their safety at work.
While it was disappointing to see a rise Such an approach enabled South West Water to deliver in health and safety incidents during the year, the company in 2010 11 the industrys leading leakage performance, has launched a high profile new behavioural health and near perfect drinking water quality and a consistent stable safety campaign to ensure a safe working environment serviceability rating.
It has also given Viridor the opportunity to accelerate its Viridor saw a reduction during the year in its employee growth, both organically and through acquisition, to achieve RIDDOR accident rates which remain below waste industry increased future profitability through further realising the latent averages.
Even so, along with the rest of the Group, Viridor is value of waste.
targeting further improvements with a goal of achieving zero Economic investment is key to the economic sustainability accidents and is working on several industry-wide initiatives of the Group.
partnered by the Health and Safety Executive to help with this.
The Groups tax objectives and policies are focused on longDuring the year Viridor again strengthened its training term economic sustainability.
function helping to focus on training delivery and individual professional development.
Verification than double the targeted number of National Vocational Pennons corporate responsibility performance for 2010 11 Qualifications.
The companys training strategy will help has been audited by Acona Partners LLP, an independent to extend its Investor in People accreditation throughout management consultancy that specialises in the areas of the company.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31
