Sustainability We have developed a strong approach to sustainability over thepast decade.
Our integrated approach to sustainability hassix key corporate responsibilities which underpin our aimtoprovide mutual benefits for all our key stakeholders.
Putting customers first Prioritising health and safety 91% Ensuring our customers satisfaction and the Taking care of our employees, subcontractors Customer satisfaction provision of a seamless journey through the and customers is a key priority for us and 2010:93% buying process and occupation of a new home consideration of health and safety underpins are of paramount importance to our business.
all the construction work we undertake.
We invest heavily in training to ensure that our Wetake a proactive approach to monitoring 170,000 customers are provided with a quality home and and maintaining health and safety on all excellent service.
our developments, with regular inspections Trees planted byoursite and contract managers and our 2010: 103,000 Our customer charter, The Persimmon Pledge Group health and safety advisors.
fully complies with the Consumer Code for Homebuilders and sets the standards of service We ensure that appropriate instruction, which our customers can expect.
During 2011 training and supervision are provided to all we introduced new procedures to further our employees, contractors and members of improve our customer service, such as requiring the public to promote a safe environment for a regional office director to inspect each anyone visiting our developments.
During property prior to handover to a customer.
2011 we provided 382 days of dedicated health and safety training, an increase of 37% on the previous year.
During 2011 we were able to provide 26% of our customers with a shared All health and safety matters are reviewed by equity loan to buy their first property.
senior management on at least a bi-monthly basis.
The primary way that we ensure that In 2011, 91% of our customers stated that they our 24 operating businesses are working safely would recommend Persimmon to a friend.
is through the results of regular inspection Thispercentage is slightly lower than in 2010, and audit.
The results help us to identify but maintains the high level of previous years.
areasofgood practice and any issues of non-conformance that need to be addressed.
Our customers biggest challenge is obtaining an affordable mortgage, due to lenders In 2011 Persimmon won the Outstanding requirements for a substantial deposit.
We are Contribution to Training category at the able to offer our customers shared equity loans, Construction Health and Safety Group which reduce the deposit required to buy a annual awards.
Persimmon was recognised new home and makes our customers cost of for its continued commitment to improving borrowing affordable.
During 2011 we were able awareness of health and safety across the to provide 26% of our customers with a shared Group and delivering targeted training to equity loan to buy their first property.
employees and subcontractors to ensure .
Persimmon Plc 26 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Sustainability continued During 2011 the number of accidents reportable contained Space4 timber frames.
Research has 2,512 under the Reporting of Incidents Diseases and shown that homes using the Space4 system are Dangerous Occurrences RIDDOR increased 50% more energy efficient than the average UK Sustainable homes to 90 2010: 59, which equates to an incident home, offering environmental benefits as well 2010:2,077 rate of 9.8 RIDDORs per 1,000 workers.
We as significant reductions in energy costs for are naturally disappointed in these results and ourcustomers.
whilst investigations show no adverse trends in We have also found ways to improve the 57% our approach to managing health and safety we efficiency of traditionally built homes by will continue to concentrate on reducing the Homes built on browneld improving insulation in walls, ceilings and land 2010: 61% number of slips, trips and falls onour sites.
We use the Standard Assessment In 2012 our health and safety training will Procedure SAP system for measuring energy be engaging all our workforce, including efficiency of our houses, which is adjusted by subcontractors to ensure they recognise the floor areas so that all houses, regardless of size, hazards and risks associated with their work can be compared one against the other.
In 2011 and to promote a stronger health and safety the average SAP rating for all homes we built culture within our business.
This score is substantially higher than the industry average of 79 and the average SAP rating for UK housing stock of 53.
Building sustainable homes The Governments Code for Sustainable Homes We have been promoting a fabric first benchmarks homes using sustainability criteria approach to building sustainable homes.
covering areas such as energy efficiency, water This means building new homes that are consumption and materials used to give a inherently efficient and are designed to be Code rating of 1 to 6.
In 2011 Persimmon built sustainable, rather than having to incorporate 2,512 homes assessed against the Code or its additional renewable technologies.
The key to preceding EcoHomes standard, equating to 27% our approach is the use of modern methods of of our total output.
The majority of these 2,512 construction, such as our Space4 timber frame homes met Code Level 3 or equivalent.
34% of our homes sold in 2011 Below: Westbury Partnerships at Singers Knoll, Frome, Somerset Right: The Beeches, Garthamlock, Glasgow Below right: Stowford Rise, Sidmouth, Devon.
Built to Code for Sustainable Homes or EcoHomes standard Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 27 Sustainability continued In the last year we have developed a new way Operating efficiently of building modern, stimulating primary During 2011 we have worked with the schools by securing a new site and building a Governments Waste and Resources Action new school before redeveloping the old school Programme WRAP.
Together with WRAP site for housing.
Using our design expertise we have undertaken six site audits to identify and procurement controls, we are able to build variances in waste management across our schools at a lower price than local education business, as well as examples of best practice authorities.
We have provided six bespoke new that could be shared.
As a result we have schools to communities, providing a dynamic updated our policy and procedures to reflect new learning environment for more than 2,000 theaudit findings.
WRAP are promoting a programme with the Investing in our people construction industry to halve waste to landfill by 2012.
Since 2005 when we first started We encourage a culture that supports our recording our data, we have reduced the amount employees to develop long and fulfilling careers of waste generated per home built by 38%, down with Persimmon.
We train all our staff to from 10.8 tonnes per home in 2005 to 6.6 tonnes ensure that they have the necessary skills and in 2011.
At the same time we have increased qualifications for their roles.
Specific training the amount of waste recycled from 67% in 2005 requirements are identified for all employees to 84% last year.
During 2011 we diverted over and during 2011 we undertook 3,507 days 52,000 tonnes of waste from landfill to recycling of training covering areas such as sales and and since 2005 we have diverted almost 500,000 information technology, equating to 1 days tonnes of waste from landfill to be recycled.
training for every member of staff.
We monitor and manage our CO2 emissions We recognise the need to retain skills within from energy used in our offices and our industry and so actively promote a development sites, as well as fuel used in our programme to train young people who want Company vehicles.
Total energy consumption a career in housebuilding with Persimmon.
in our offices and on our development sites The FIRST Management Trainee Scheme has was25 million kWh in 2011.
This equates to continued its success with a further 26 new 7,700 tonnes of CO2, a small increase on the trainees inducted into the Scheme during 2011. prior year 2010: 7,500 tonnes.
During 2011 The Scheme is a four year programme which our Company car fleet used 2.4 million litres offers the opportunity to receive working of fuel, equating to 6,200 tonnes of CO2, which experience whilst studying at college one day is unchanged since 2010. a week to obtain a Construction in the Built Environment BTEC qualification.
Our total carbon footprint for 2011 was 13,900tonnes of CO2, a small increase compared to 2010.
Conclusion In our 40th anniversary year I am sure that Investing in our communities ourrobust approach to sustainability means that Persimmon is well placed to respond to As we plan and develop our new sites we future challenges.
often make a significant contribution to local communities through investment in new Further information on our management facilities and infrastructure through planning structure, policies and procedures together agreements with the local authority.
During with our 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 we invested over 24m in community can be found on our website at facilities, mainly in new schools, highways, www.
com public open spaces and affordable housing.
In our public open space and throughout our Neil Davidson developments we pay considerable attention Chairman to new landscaping schemes and in 2011 Corporate Responsibility Committee weplanted c. 170,000 trees.
27 February 2012 Persimmon Plc 28 Annual Report December 2011
