Petrofac 54 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Managing social and environmental risk Petrofac aims to be a force for good in its operations.
We realise, however, that our activities can have negative as well as positive impacts and that, as we grow, the extent of such potential impactswill increase.
The identication, assessment and management of social and environmental risk are therefore acorepart of our CR strategy.
The standard requires all Petrofac Managing social risk Total contribution analysis businesses to identify and assess the Our community investment strategy Education and employment US$658,919 impacts they have on communities, Infrastructure US$1,515,872 spearheads our efforts to protect the Discretionary US$1,547,297 frompre-award throughout the life cycle of Total US$3,724,188 Company from social risk.
In line with our aproject.
In 2011, as described in the case overall business strategy, we aim to support 18% study on the next page, we carried out an sustainable economic development in our initial social and economic assessment 41% host countries not only by maintaining immediately after our award of two effective relationships with our stakeholders Production Enhancement Contracts in and managing the negative impacts of our central Mexico.
Following each social operations, but also through focused impact assessment, Petrofac project plans community investment programmes, are developed with the aim of avoiding or where we can create additional training and mitigating identied risks.
complemented by consultation with local communities and stakeholders, is used to In 2011, we made progress in delivering 41% develop structured community investment thisstrategy and aligning community plans as, at the beginning of 2012, we were Total includes US$2,100 for Enterprise initiatives investment in support of our overall doing in Tunisiaand Romania.
A key step was the development of the Petrofac Community Another significant initiative in our Investment Standard, which embeds a management of social risk was our clear framework for achieving our strategic implementation of the London Benchmark community investment aims in our core Community Investment Tool.
This tool will business processes.
enable Petrofac to evaluate its overall contribution to the community, taking into Another significant account cash, time and in-kind donations and management costs.
It will also help initiative in our record the outputs, and longer term management of community and business impacts of our socialrisk was our community projects.
We are harnessing our international network of CR representatives implementation of the to record each of our specic activities London Benchmark around the world, to help us build up an accurate global picture.
The findings will Community enable us to establish robust key InvestmentTool.
performance indicators to help us measure and improve future performance.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 55 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 initiatives in the UK to encourage young investment standard and our new Community investment people to pursue science and engineering investment evaluation tool.
Our community investment focuses on careers.
These included Petrofac In 2012, we aim to improve the effectiveness three main areas: education and engineers being involved in sixth-form of our community investment approach by employment, infrastructure and enterprise.
mentoring programmes and science implementing the standard and ambassador school visits and our In 2011, the Group donated more than continued sponsorship of the Royal complementary training in all our US$3.7 million to community projects: Academy of Engineering fellowships businesses, further training on the London around 60% of this total was directed to our Benchmark Community Investment Tool to strategic focus areas, with the remainder sponsorship of a Sharjah Government improve our data gathering, and developing being discretionary funding.
In 2012 we aim public education campaign Your Child, a social performance toolkit to support our Your Responsibility to raise awareness to decrease the amount of discretionary of the need for child car-safety seats management of social risks and impacts.
spending and direct community contributions to areas where we can make Once again, our people proved generous the greatest impact.
Managing environmental risk in raising money for good causes.
In the UAE, for example, employees In 2011, community investment included: The recent history of the oil & gas sector donated US$88,000 to support reminds us that our industry has inherently the development of a comprehensive humanitarian relieffor Somalia.
Petrofac is tireless in its programme to support the community efforts to ensure the technical integrity of around our Chergui Gas Concession In 2011, an independent consultancy, the plants we design, build and operate, inTunisia.
This includes a significant Corporate Citizenship, reviewed our inorder to minimise the risk of major contribution toemployment development community activity and benchmarked us schemes and support for targeted accidents, such as re, explosion and spills.
Havingjudged that projects to create alternative income Petrofac is currently inthe fourth quartile In 2011, we again improved the robustness streams for localshermen and farmers ofour peers, the consultancy suggested of the systems and processes we use to a partnership with the University of Malay we could move tothe first quartile if monitor and maintain the safety of our plant.
to establish a geo-science development asweareplanning we improved our This focus is particularly important as we centre and to sponsor two MSc PhD KPIs, data gathering and CR reporting.
grow and absorb assets that have not graduates, in support of the Malaysian Thisconsultancy subsequently participated previously been managed by us.
Governments Economic in Petrofacs rstworkshop forour network Suchassets often require intensive  ofCR representatives.
Trainingfocused on assessment, inspection and monitoring stakeholder engagement, the community until they reach Petrofac standards.
Petrofac is taking careful account of local social needs as we embark onthe reactivation and development of two mature oil elds, the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in Tabasco State, Mexico, following the2011 award of two Production Enhancement Contracts.
As is customary, Petrofac is striving to have a positive impact in the area around our operations in Mexico bycreating jobs, boosting community revenues and providing opportunities for local suppliers.
In Tabasco, we conducted an initial assessment of local economic, environmental and social circumstances, which we will follow with a more detailed social impact assessment survey in 2012.
This included identifying local stakeholders and beginning a dialogue to explain the nature of the project and, in consultation with the community, considering initial opportunities for investment.
We also ran a workshop for our project team, focusing on Petrofacs sustainability commitments as a signatory of the UN Global Compact.
Participants learned how to build effective stakeholder engagement and developed a set of guiding sustainability principles for the operation.
The project requires the deployment of a 150-strong workforce and we are now recruiting in the area, in line with our strategic commitment to local content.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 56 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Above Petrofac is tireless in its efforts to ensure thetechnical integrity of the plants we design, buildandoperate.
Above Our UK Emergency Response Service Centrein Aberdeen offers a 24-hour integrated response capability.
Each of our operations carries out regular Our Asset Integrity Review Board AIRB, The application of our Group standard for asset integrity assessments.
These report which is co-chaired by our Offshore integrity management, introduced in 2010, against around 30 measures covering plant Projects & Operations Managing Director was a key focus of all communication.
The reliability and condition, management of and our Group Director, Health, Safety, standard has 12 principles, ranging from maintenance and assurance activities Security, Environment and Integrity audit systems to response procedures, and andorganisational matters, such as Assurance HSSEIA continued to meet is mandatory across all our operations.
The AIRB involves operations Petrofac proactively shares best practice improved the metrics we use to help us managers from all our operated sites.
with its peers to help reduce risk.
We are assess performance and analyse Itprovides a forum for peer review and members of the UK Oil Spill Prevention and trendsbetter.
support and helps anticipate potential Response Advisory Group and support the Additionally, following the development of issues.
From 2012, due to Petrofacs UK oil & gas industry safety initiative, Step a new software tool, we now have a more international expansion, the AIRB will Change in Safety, and its working groups.
comprehensive overview of the integrity meettwice monthly, enabling dedicated Our safety expertise offers particular reviews carried out across all our meetings for both the eastern and western insights: Petrofac Training Services is a international projects, from design and hemispheres.
leading emergency response trainer and buildto operations and maintenance.
ourUK Emergency Response Service During the year, we conducted detailed Centre in Aberdeen offers a 24-hour Engaging employees audits of five major sites to assess their integrated response capability.
inassetintegrity protection against, and preparedness We continued to engage all levels of our for, major accidents, as part of a rolling people in asset integrity.
Our annual safety programme ofmajor hazard-prevention seminar focused on safety leadership and visits across all our locations.
In addition, maintaining plant integrity and was again Ayman Asfari personally conducted safety attended by our Group Chief Executive focused visits to five operational sites andGroup Chief Operating officer, duringthe year.
Our Group Director, HSSEIA led integrity assurance training in our Indian ofces and we communicated to the widerPetrofac workforce via roadshows, videosand e-learning.
