Petrofac 62 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Safeguarding theenvironment Petrofac is committed to protecting the environment and improving our environmental performance: this reects both responsible corporate behaviour and good business sense.
Managing the environmental impact of under the Petrofac incident classication Strengthening data ouroperations, and engaging our standard related to the theft of a section of measurement systems communities and employees in protecting a small-diameter oil pipeline from the Ticleni During the year, we brought greater their local areas, helps build positive eld in Romania in February 2011, which consistency tothe way we monitor and relationships with customers and the resulted in the release of approximately manage environmental impacts with the societies in which we operate: controlling 500litres of oil to the ground.
We track development of a new data collection energy consumption both limits our carbon allreleases and impacts for internal system.
This standardises environmental footprint and keeps our costs low: and investigation, to ensure that lessons reporting practice across the Group, preventing spills and leaks protects oceans learnedhelp to prevent future incidents.
enabling us to track more accurately our and coastline, but also demonstrates the total energy consumption, waste, travel, efficiency and reliability of our operations.
A new recycling water use and air emissions.
This will allow programme at our us to extend beyond measuring our carbon Our carbon footprint footprint, to understand better what we can Aberdeen ofces In 2011, our operations including joint do to reduce our environmental impact.
reduced landll waste venture operations but excluding customerIn 2011, Petrofac recorded 127 incidents owned facilities emitted 227,390 tonnes by more than 80% and worldwide of unplanned releases into the ofCO 2010 revised gure: 214,121.
2 delivered annual environment, the majority of which, were of Thisincrease of 6% was due to the relative minor nature and none resulted in savings of 110,000. expansion of our operations.
However, one incident which was classied as medium impact Carbon emissions 227,390 tonnes of carbon emissions generated in 2011 Tonnes of CO emitted 2 Thousands 2007 120 2008 185 2009 208 2010 214 2011 227 Above A poster from our recycling campaign in Aberdeen.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 63 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 From road cleaning in Romania and cleaning beaches in Sharjah to constructing ora-friendly footpaths in the UK, more than 1,000 of our employees joined with local people to make a difference during Petrofacs November 2011 Environment Month.
Environment Month encourages staff to realise how individual steps, both inside and outside work, can reduce our impact on the environment.
This year, appropriately, the theme was Be part of the solution.
Staff, management and contractors from 17 Group locations, and their families, took part in activities around the world.
They were joined by representatives from our customers, environment groups, schools, charities and other groups from Petrofacs host communities.
We appreciate that effective environmental and measurement of company-specic employees with compost for their home reporting requires not only measurement risks and opportunities related to climate gardens made from their composted ofce but also the tracking of progress against change.
We continued to participate in the waste.
The programme, which won a 2011 agreed targets.
In 2011, we worked with UK Governments Carbon Reduction Petrofac EVE Excellence, Values, Energy ourbusiness units to develop targets for Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme Award, is being rolled out to other Group improving our environmental performance.
and are actively looking for opportunities to locations.
In another successful initiative, a improve our performance in this area.
programme to improve the energy Petrofacs new environment steering group efficiency of our ofce buildings led to a met twice during 2011, with our future We also continued to measure emissions 16% reduction in energy consumption at environmental strategy a key focus.
forourcustomers, as well as for our our Sharjah ofce tower.
Thegroup, which includes both senior operations, including providing extensive operations managers and functional monitoring under the Oslo-Paris Convention Our fourth Planet Petrofac Environment environmental heads, led a revision of our environmental management requirements Month again engaged employees and local environmental policy, helped frame our new and the European Environmental Emissions people in practical steps toenhance their data collection system and assessed peer Monitoring System.
performance as a means of setting future In further partnership with our communities, goals and standards.
Reducing environmental we maintained our membership of the Arab impacts We once again shared our carbon Forum for Environment and Development generation data with the worldwide Carbon and worked closely with the Emirates We acted further to control waste and Disclosure Project CDP and were pleased Environmental Group.
carbon emissions and improve energy to achieve an increased rating, rising from efficiency.
A new recycling programme at Going forward, we will continue to 36 to 53 out of a possible score of 100. our Aberdeen ofces reduced landll waste strengthen the robustness and transparency Thistakes us into the CDPs mid-range by more than 80% and delivered annual of our reporting and the consistency of category, which it classies as savings of 110,000.
The scheme involves theGroups environmental processes to demonstrating increased understanding removing all waste bins and installing xed improve our performance further.
recycling points in all departments, as well as the innovative option of providing Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
