Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 51 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofacs success is built on responsible business practices, respect and support for the communities in which we operate.
This responsible approach is manifested in All these factors are good for business, the corporate values that are at the heart of fundamental to obtaining licences to all of our activities, and embedded in the operate around the world, and help deliver core business systems and processes better returns for our shareholders.
It is particularly important that a company For a service company like Petrofac, acting like Petrofac, which is often a guest in a responsibly is not only ethical but it makes country for a relatively short period, has a good business sense.
Ithelps us to: targeted, effective approach to corporate responsibility CR.
As project life cycles build strong relationships with our maymean we are only in an area for two to customers, which we achieve, for three years, we have a short time to make example, by employing and training apositive impact.
localworkforces develop trust in our reliability and For a service company integrity, which we are reinforcing, forinstance, bydeveloping a global like Petrofac, acting compliance network responsibly is not only manage risks more effectively, as we do ethical but it makes with the social and environmental impact assessments that we carry out in good business sense.
allgeographies establish strong employee engagement, In recognition of the importance of which we can demonstrate by the fact corporate responsibility and as Petrofac that the 2011 PetroVoices survey of our builds on three decades of tremendous staff scored us around or above global growth, we are continuing to develop a high performance norms more robust approach to CR.
Forexample, in 2011, we developed a newcommunity create positive impressions with investors as we hope to have done with the investment standard andintroduced risk significant improvement in our 2011 screening asaroutine part of our due Carbon Disclosure Project score diligence assessment for third-party suppliers.
Wealso began developing more effective systems to measure the value of our approach, as a means of improving what we do, in every area from environmental protection to community investment.
As we continue to grow, we are determined that the strength and impact of our CR will increase in tandem.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
