Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 57 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 Our people Petrofacs ambitious plans for growth require an expanding number of talented people across all levels of our business.
In 2011, we continued to invest significant Petrofac is a diverse business.
Our We increased our overall headcount by efforts inensuring we have a sustainable employees represent more than 80 10%, made several new executive organisation that will support our growth nationalities and, wherever we operate, appointments, including a new Chairman plans.
Our human resources HR function, weaim to recruit and develop local staff.
and Group CFO, the Chief Executive of our working closely with the business, is In2011, we reinforced our emphasis on IES division, andour first female Nonfocused on the essential task of attracting, local content, particularly in areas where executive Director, along with many other developing andretaining the very best weintend to build and maintain a long-term important senior hires.
Our graduate intake people for ourbusiness.
presence, such as south-east Asia was up a third on2010.
Our strategy demands strong collaboration Attracting the talent we need We work to ensure both men and women across our businesses and geographies.
have equal opportunities to develop Tosupport this, we are working to improve To be prepared for growth, we need a clear successful careers with Petrofac.
our global mobility programmes to enable picture of the number and type of people Wewelcomed the Davies Report efficient and timely cross-border transfer of required to meet both our short and recommendations on Women on Boards staff.
The global roll-out of Petrofacs new long-term goals.
To help achieve this, we and committed to develop an inclusion and Oracle system will help introduce more developed a strategic forecasting template diversity policy, which will be launched in consistent and efficient people for the entire business and developed and 2012, and to monitor closely the numbers management processes and reporting implemented stafng plans for new and development of women in, and capabilities, particularly around locations, such as Mexico.
entering, the business at all levels, and to performance management, compensation We continue to concentrate on the act on the findings.
We also require and learning management.
processes and systems needed to ensure recruitment agencies to consider the we attract the best talent in a resourcediversity of candidates whensourcingstaff.
New talent 2,600 98% 5% new staff joined of graduates hired of Petrofac Petrofac in 2011 since 2008 are still employees left by working for Petrofac choice in 2011 Graduates recruited Numbers 2007 115 2008 104 2009 120 2010 107 2011 146 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 58 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued events in the UK andUAE were supported and the PetroVoices survey showed an Developing our talent by individual follow-up sessions to increase in the number ofrespondents Developing our people feeds into and reinforcelearning andconrm future whofelt the Company didagood job in strengthens our talent pipeline and, development needs.
Other programmes retaining its most talentedpeople.
bybuilding employee satisfaction, are being run or developed across The Companys growth and recent boostsretention.
reorganisation provides the opportunity to In 2011, we placed a strong emphasis on We are continuously working to ensure our develop our workforce in the best way for our performance management process to experienced, mature staff coach and the business.
Petrofacs HR team, like other improve continuously the performance of mentor engineers and graduates who are core functions, is being systematically individuals and the organisation by ensuring just embarking on their careers.
developed and strengthened to provide the that thework undertaken by all our people calibre of operational and functional support fully contributes to the goals of their teams our strategic growth ambitions demand.
Retaining key staff andthe wider business.
We ran a performance management training Petrofac continuously focuses on ensuring Our differentiating values programme across the Group, with we retain talent in an industry with clear separate modules for appraisers and shortages.
Placing an ongoing emphasis Our strong values are one of the key things appraisees, in dozens of tailored events.
on improving our people management that differentiate us: the 2011 PetroVoices This strong emphasis on performance processes is key, as is listening to our survey found that 94% of respondents fully management will continue into 2012 employees.
In 2011 we ran our third support our values, with 89% believing andbeyond.
Thishad they are solid enough to act on every day.
its highest ever participation rate and In 2011, to demonstrate the business In 2011, staff at all levels benefited from showed clear improvements in all benets our values deliver and to recognise improved development opportunities.
Localised action plans will be employees who embody them, we Thenumber of development days increased, implemented in 2012. launched the Petrofac EVE Awards, which company-wide, for both technical and stand for Excellence, Values and Energy.
The ratio of people in Petrofac is also crafting tailored tools and Strong applications were received from the 2011 PetroVoices employee survey processes to support and retain specic around the Group, with 170 individuals and whothought Petrofac dida good job of groups.
Graduates, for example, each teams going through the regional judging developing people so they can reachtheir now have a bespoke progression and process and 40 entries reaching the final full potential rose.
development plan, while a social mediajudging stage to determine our nalists and style professional development tool is Around 90 people took part in the winners.
The emphasis our management beingtrialled to meet the communication Companys Senior Leadership Excellence team places on our values was reinforced preferences of youngerrecruits.
Programme, run in conjunction with the by the EVE awards ceremony taking place London Business School.
Face-to-face Despite aggressive competition from other in conjunction with Petrofacs annual employers, attrition remained broadly at leadership conference.
Above We work to ensure that both men and women have equal opportunities to develop successful careers with Petrofac.
Above Team Talk team brieng was rolled out across the business in 2011.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility Petrofac How we operate Annual report and accounts 2011 59 Managing social and environmental risk Our people Keeping people safe Safeguarding the environment Our ethical core 01 22 41 65 6 6 107 153 Graduate recruitment is crucial to establishing future generations of Petrofac leaders.
In 2011, we increased our efforts to recruit in emergingmarkets and in regions where we have long-term ambitions.
We targeted more than 40 universities in the Middle East, North Africa, CIS, Asia and the UK to identify promising young people.
Our recruitment programme included regular communication with academic institutions, participation in careers fairs, and presentations to faculties and student groups.
As part of a significant internship programme, in collaboration with partner universities, we also offered eight-week placements to a number of undergraduates to allow them to experience Petrofac and to enable usto assess the students as possible recruits.
Following such concerted efforts, during the year we recruited 146 graduates up a third on 2010 including our first intakes from Algeria, Kazakhstan, Nigeria and China.
moved to a new platform, is more In 2011, communications activity supported Communications accessible and enables greater employee a programme of major business activity, Effective communication is essential to interaction and collaboration.
It will be rolled including the launch of our two-divisional achieving our business goals.
In 2011, out to our key geographies in early 2012. structure, the Companys Capital Markets wefocused on internal communication Day, the relaunch of our Horizon Zero safety During the year, we strove to ensure that andengagement, which was particularly programme and the third PetroVoices all communications, external and internal, important during the transition to our new employee survey.
There was also extensive conveyed clear, consistent messages two-divisional organisation.
activity around Petrofacs 30th anniversary, about the Company, its strategic direction including a Walk the World challenge that Communicating with a dispersed, multiand what differentiates us.
Internal teams inspired teams of employees to walk a total cultural workforce, many of whom are and external advisors participated in our of 294,000 miles.
ofine, requires a bespoke and integrated first strategic communications summit: we approach.
Face-to-face communication is a The communications team also continued rearticulated Petrofacs vision and values: critical part of the mix and, during the year, to deliver Petrofacts, our quarterly began development work on the Company we rolled out our Team Talk team brieng employeemagazine, and again held the brand, and revised our tone of voice tool across Petrofac.
Picture Petrofacts employee photography guidelines.
To ensure coherent corporate competition, attracting stunning entries messaging, communication teams across Team Talk was developed and piloted in from across the business.
the business were realigned under the 2010 in response to demand in the previous corporate function.
Complementing years PetroVoices employee survey for Communications recorded the greatest Group-wide channels, the divisions are greater communication between managers area of improvement in the 2011 alsodeveloping their own tailored and their teams.
We are pleased that it has PetroVoices employee survey, with 77% communications, including new become so quickly embedded that 79% of ofall responses being favourable 3% internalnewsletters.
respondents to our 2011 survey say they above our global high performing now get Company information through As well as refreshing our intranet, we normbenchmark.
worked on the relaunch of our external strongperformance reects the high online presence.
Our new website, which priorityPetrofac managers place on Our intranet, PetroNet, is likely to become launched in February 2012, is more communicating with their people.
our primary internal communications representative of Petrofacs position as an Wearecommitted to improving further channel in the future.
In 2011, we developed international company and includes such theprofessionalism, impact and value of and redesigned PetroNet to make it more new features as regional hub sections, allour communications.
The site has been withmore local content.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora C Corporat t te e responsibilit p y y Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
