Petrofac 16 Annual report and accounts 2011 Creating sustainable growth Delivering locally makes a difference to our long-term sustainability Maroun Semaan President Petrofacsphilosophy of creating delivermutual growth.
Recent strategic In late 2011, as Petrofac sustainable operations.
collaborations include our 2011 joint President and head of our venture agreement with China Petroleum new corporate development We deliver bespoke programmes to Engineering & Construction Corporation & strategy group, I am support national workforce development, CPECC and our January 2012 sponsoring awide-ranging facilitated by our Training Services co-operation agreement with leading business.
These may be run as programme, Fitfor 2015, to oileld services company Schlumberger.
stand-alone courses or in conjunction ensure we have all the building Additionally, we are seeking credible local withour projects and operations.
blocksin place for sustainable partners.
In Turkmenistan, on our South growth.
We will achieve this by Local delivery is also important for Yoloten gas eld project, we are proud to focusing on three key areas: resource holders, who increasingly have approximately 70% local workforce.
wantto develop skilled in-country people, partnerships and workforces, transferring know-how and Process: we have strong quality and process.
integrity management systems to ensure Developing more local operational centres Local recruitment also enhances our we achieve right first time operations.
will be core to our strategy.
We will pursue talent pool.
Constantly improving the standards of our such initiatives as: people and processes ensures we are A strong talent base and a robust local recruitment programmes in the best position to win and execute organisational structure are key to projects for our customers.
collaborative partnerships, for example, success.
We will focus on ensuring that with local fabrication, design engineering many of the processes that support this, Fit for 2015 and operations support centres such as our performance management framework, are globally consistent, maximising relationships within local Fit for 2015 will ensure our organisation, supply chains aligned with our strategic goals and systems and processes live up to our meetour business needs.
value of quality and cost conscious.
developing common Group-wide Adedicated team will work with senior business processes Partnerships: building strategic business leaders to identify and address relationships with our customers, People: we know we must recruit and areas for growth, increased efficiency, partners, suppliers and communities retain the highest calibre people.
improved processes, talent development, iscore to our drive for sustainability.
Ourcommitment to employing and and mitigation of risk.
Weareworking hard to align ourselves developing local resources and working with world-class organisations to By taking the time to put ourselves on the within local supply chains helps meet soundest possible footing, we will ensure thisneed and is fundamental to we can grow for many years to come.
Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 17 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Petrofac has recently strengthened its competitive position with the establishment of a strategic joint venture with China Petroleum Engineering & Construction Corporation CPECC.
The September 2011 launch of the joint We will initially focus on Chinese venture, China Petroleum Petrofac oil & gas companies, offering support Engineering Services CPPES, for both domestic and international marksthe culmination of a seven-year projects.
relationship and a track record of Petrofac and CPECC are currently co-operation between our businesses.
working together on the Rumaila oil eld Operationally based in Sharjah, CPPES, in southern Iraq, following the award of which is 51% owned by CPECC and an inspection, maintenance and repair 49% owned by Petrofac, is staffed by contract by BP in June 2011.
Consistent employees of both companies.
with our local content philosophy, this CPPES will leverage the combined contract seeks to maximise in-country resources of CPECC and Petrofac to engagement by accessing the local pursue mutually attractive engineering supply chain and resource pool.
Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
