Corporate Social Responsibility Andrew Memmott, Operations Director Our Corporate Responsibility agenda is an increasingly important part of our business and one with which we need to engage all our employees in order to drive the greatest benefit.
2011 12 will see the business undertake a significant Our Corporate Responsibility strategy has been developed across communication programme across all our sites to raise the 2010 11 and a programme encouraging all our employees to business wide awareness in this area, and I am confident this do the right thing will be rolled out across 2011 12.
A. G. BARRs will further reinforce the related business performance and Corporate Responsibility focus has been aligned within 4 key areas: allow us to build on the significant achievements made during 2010 11 and previous years.
t Environment t Our Consumers Overview t Our People Corporate Responsibility is an integral part of our overall business.
t Community Despite the challenging economic times, Corporate Responsibility continues to thrive within A. G. BARR and remains one of the 7 Environment core areas of strategic focus, sponsored by the Operations We recognise the impact our business has on the environment.
During 2010 11, we have put a structure in place to We aim to grow and succeed as a sustainable business by cascade Corporate Responsibility principles across all our reducing our key environmental impacts energy and water business decisions.
use, waste, packaging, and transport.
We continue to implement energy improvement initiatives and Board Sponsor promote a culture of energy efficiency across all our operations.
Operations Director Environmental Policy and ISO 14001 We are committed to the prevention of pollution and to the CR Committee continual improvement of our environmental performance in line Marketing, Customer Management, with all relevant legislation and other self-imposed requirements.
Supply Chain, HR, Quality All our sites are audited against the ISO 14001 standards.
Local Champions Environment, People, Consumers, Community 28 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Environmental targets and 2010 11 progress update Our environmental targets are aligned to agreed industry standards included in the British Soft Drinks Association sustainability strategy.
Objective Target Progress Achieve a 30% reduction in manufacturing Achieve a minimum 2% year on year 2.1% saving in CO has been achieved 2 Global CO emissions by 2020, compared improvement across manufacturing sites in 2010 11 2 to 1990 levels Achieve a 30% reduction in waste Achieve a minimum 3% year on year 10.9% year on year improvement water volumes by 2020 compared improvement across manufacturing sites achieved to 2007 levels Send zero manufacturing waste to All manufacturing sites to achieve zero 10% improvement achieved across landfill by 2015 waste to landfill by 2013 the Group Improve the sustainability of all Successfully implement packaging weight Packaging weight reduction achieved our packaging reduction initiatives for 250ml, 500ml and 2l PET bottles and all Strathmore glass bottles.
Achieve a year on year increase in the use Unable to extend use of rPET due of recycled materials in our packaging to supply chain shortages Reduce the external impacts of transport Achieve a minimum 2% year on year A 1% improvement year on year achieved by 20% by 2012 compared to 2002 improvement in fleet MPG performance Implementation of vehicle CO emission 2 reduction programme A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Manufacturing energy used kWh per tonne Corporate Social Responsibility of product produced 2011 98.02 continued 2010 102.40 2009 110.04 2008 111.96 2007 121.56 2006 135.49 Manufacturing water used l per litre of product produced 2011 1.47 2010 1.63 2009 1.67 2008 1.86 2007 1.75 2006 2.01 Percentage of recycled recovered waste 2011 89.37 2010 80.61 The environmental committee plays a key role in monitoring Future Sustainability performance against our environmental targets and developing We are progressing with a project to install a wind turbine at our a consistent approach to implementing environmental initiatives Cumbernauld site which is projected to be operational during the across the Group.
It is anticipated that the turbine will provide approximately 30% of the energy required by our manufacturing operations at Cumbernauld.
Operations Director Sustainable Manufacturing A. G. BARR aims to achieve a 30% reduction in manufacturing Environmental committee CO2 emissions by 2020, compared to 1990 levels.
Cumbernauld Tredegar Mansfield Climate Change Agreements were introduced in 2001 as a Site Site Site mechanism to encourage energy intensive industries to reduce their use of energy, in return for an 80% reduction in the cost of the Climate Change Levy Tax.
All A. G. BARR manufacturing Forfar sites excluding Pitcox hold a Climate Change Agreement.
Logistics Site During the life of our Climate Change Agreements, we have reduced our net absolute carbon emissions kgC by 8% whilst Group progress against environmental targets is reported increasing production by 34%.
Without these improvements to the board of directors on a quarterly basis.
in energy efficiency at our manufacturing sites, we would have consumed an additional 24,418,634kWh, the equivalent energy required to power c. 5,800 family homes for one year source: University of Strathclyde household electricity consumption report, and emitted an additional 1,493.5 tonnes of carbon into the atmosphere in 2010 11.
30 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Energy efficiency at our manufacturing sites made further Reducing Waste improvements last year, with the Group reducing its emissions per Our aim is to send zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 2015. tonne of product by an average of 2.1% source: A. G. BARR data.
In 2010 11, A. G. BARR recycled 89.4% of all waste produced at kgCO2 tonne across 2010 11 its manufacturing sites, excluding liquid waste.
This represented an improvement of 10% compared to 2009.
Cumbernauld -0.83% Our Mansfield and Forfar sites continue to maintain their zero Forfar -9.63% to landfill status.
Major improvements in segregation at our Tredegar -5.70% Cumbernauld and Tredegar sites have contributed towards Mansfield 0.30% achieving our Company objective of zero to landfill by 2013.
Pitcox 14.30% Group total -2.12% Reducing Packaging Quality packaging is essential to ensure our drinks reach At Cumbernauld, installation of a new tunnel pasteuriser on consumers in the freshest and most convenient way.
That the can line contributed to a significant reduction in gas usage.
said, we aim to improve the sustainability of all our packaging.
Installation of two new combi bottle blowers and fillers on two This has been achieved by light-weighting and increasing the PET lines led to energy savings, by reducing the pressures amount of recycled materials we use.
Our packaging initiatives needed to blow bottles.
are tested with consumers prior to introduction to ensure they will not negatively impact upon consumers enjoyment of our drinks.
Energy saving projects at Forfar included the installation of a new insulated warehouse roof and installation of a PLC controller By light-weighting our Strathmore glass bottle range during on the high pressure compressor.
The latter has allowed greater 2010 11, we have removed c. 389 tonnes of glass from the control of the blowing pressures required to produce different packaging, or the equivalent of 1.77 million 330ml glass bottles.
bottle sizes and led to a reduction in energy consumed.
Weight Reduction A. G. BARR plans to continue investing in energy saving initiatives at its manufacturing sites during 2011 12.
Initiatives include 1l 3% installing invertors on the remaining high pressure compressors at 750ml 7% the Cumbernauld site, replacing the low pressure air compressor 330ml 9% with a variable speed drive at our Forfar site to allow more efficient running following learnings from the Cumbernauld site We have been working with our suppliers to introduce returnable during 2009 10, and installing an energy monitoring system at transit packaging for all glass bottle deliveries to our Forfar site.
the Tredegar site to observe energy usage in greater detail in Trials have been successfully completed and all deliveries from order to drive greater energy efficiencies.
Q1 2011 12 will use returnable transit materials, removing c. 52 tonnes of corrugate packaging waste from our supply chain.
During 2010 11, intelligent automated meter reading meters were installed at our five England direct to store distribution New PET bottle blowing and filling equipment installed at our depots.
Energy usage is now tracked at half hourly intervals Cumbernauld site has enabled a significant light-weighting to target inefficiencies and further improve performance.
programme to be rolled out across our 250ml, 500ml and 2l PET bottles.
Our new light-weighted 250ml and 500ml bottles Conserving Water are industry leading within the carbonated soft drinks market.
A. G. BARR aims to achieve a 30% reduction in its waste water volumes by 2020 compared to 2007 levels.
Weight Reduction PET saving Bottle Equivalents Continually working to minimise waste of this precious resource, 2l 6% 125 tonnes 3m A. G. BARR has achieved a year on year reduction in waste water 500ml 18% 43 tonnes 1.8m usage ahead of its target for the second year running.
250ml 21% 79 tonnes 4.3m This is primarily due to significant investment in new equipment Based upon 2010 GB volumes.
The new tunnel pasteuriser on the can line installed during Q1 2010 11 also uses significantly less water 2011 12 will see us carry out a redesign of the Strathmore PET than the previous pasteuriser, whilst the installation of the new bottles to enable further weight reductions in the packaging Sidel Combi bottle blowers and fillers at Cumbernauld has we use in this range.
removed the need for bottle rinsing prior to filling.
We continue to investigate use of recycled PET rPET in our Combined, these investments have reduced water usage during plastic bottles.
We have used 25% rPET in our Strathmore water the manufacturing process at Cumbernauld by 13.9%, to 1.44 bottles during 2010 11: however, due to issues with availability litres per litre of product produced.
of rPET supply in 2010 11, we have not yet been able to make the progress we planned in rolling out rPET across all our PET ranges.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 HGV Driver education encourages techniques Corporate Social Responsibility to improve safe and fuel efficient driving.
continued Below left: In 2010, A. G. BARR joined the On Pack Recycling Label Scheme.
Below: In March 2010, A. G. BARR p. l. c. signed up to the Courtauld Commitment 2, a voluntary waste reduction agreement for major grocery retailers and brand owners supported by Zero Waste Scotland.
Richard Lochhead MSP, Cabinet Secretary centre, visited Cumbernauld to sign the agreement with Roger White.
Iain Gulland, Director of Zero Waste Scotland, is also pictured.
Design in Recyclability Driver education continues to play an important role in delivering In 2010, A. G. BARR joined the On Pack Recycling Label Scheme.
improved driving characteristics and MPG.
Monitoring and This initiative, from the British Retail Consortium, provides managing the fuel used by our vehicles is vital.
By implementing consumers with consistent information about the recyclability a fuel management programme, we aim to reduce our fleets of packaging.
Use of safe and fuel efficient driving techniques as part of a fuel management process will also A. G. BARR brands, including IRN-BRU, IRN-BRU Sugar Free, contribute to this fuel saving.
Barr, Orangina, Rubicon and Rockstar, all feature the logo on-pack.
Introduction to SAFED for HGVs Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED for HGVs has been Efficient Distribution designed to improve the safe and fuel efficient driving techniques A. G. BARR aims to reduce the external impacts of transport by used by HGV drivers.
The SAFED training programme has been developed specifically A significant change in our operational footprint in 2010 11 saw the to enable both vehicle operators and training providers to outsourcing of our central wholesale distribution centre in England implement driver training within the road freight industry.
and primary transport movements to and within England to a new partner, Eddie Stobart Ltd, in June.
A major part of this contract is Training on best practice in SAFED techniques is given to our our commitment to utilise rail freight and, since we started using rail drivers.
The drivers are then assessed by recording improvements transport, we have transferred c. 30% of loads from road to the daily in driving performance and actual fuel consumption.
Stobart Rails successful freight trains represent a major positive environmental development.
The diesel trains we Driver education is supported by a programme of vehicle utilise are c. 50% more efficient than standard HGVs.
replacement, which will continue in 2011 12 with the delivery of new vehicles with streamlined bodies, providing reduced emissions and the capability of reducing fuel usage by up to 15%.
Our electric vehicle trial at our Walthamstow site is continuing and is also contributing to a reduction in CO2 emissions across the fleet.
32 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 A review of our Company car provision in 2009 10 resulted Quality and Food Safety in us setting an upper limit for CO2 emissions which was In the past year, we have integrated our Tredegar site within the significantly lower than that contained in the previous policy: scope of our ISO 9001 Quality Management System certification.
this continues to deliver year on year reductions in CO2 Previously, the site had achieved British Retail Consortium emissions from these vehicles.
Global Food Standard certification and the necessary additional controls were implemented across the site to achieve ISO 9001. Business Continuity The standard was achieved in May 2010.
In 2010 11, we focused on developing a Business Continuity Management System compliant with British Standard 25999.
A. G. BARR maintained the Grade A status against the Certification was recommended by our external quality auditors British Retail Consortiums Global Food Standard across in January 2011.
Our certification was validated through the its manufacturing sites during 2010 11.
This demonstrates UKAS accredited Lloyds Register QA.
Compliance with this our continuing commitment to food safety.
British Standard will enable us to comply with the equivalent International Standard when released and improve our ability The ISO 9001 Quality Management System continues to provide to manage a range of challenging business conditions.
a solid foundation on which to base our process control measures.
Part of the investment at our Cumbernauld factory during 2010 11 Our objective is to be better protected against reasonably has been in higher speed production capabilities, together with a foreseeable causes of interruption to our operations.
Business new team of Quality Assurance Officers to monitor performance Continuity Management involves documenting our back-up closely.
This ensures that products are maintained within systems and testing our ability to successfully recover from specification and helps minimise wastage.
As with all management systems, there is a cycle of improvement built in to ensure that these tests and Procurement actual disruptions lead to continued improved performance Ensuring continuity of supply of all essential materials to our over future years.
factories is a key element in our business continuity planning.
We have worked with our suppliers to enhance their resilience, for example, by testing and approving supplies from alternative sites.
This option is not always available to us and alternative sources need to be sought and approved.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 In 2010, A. G BARR achieved the prestigious Corporate Social Responsibility Investors in People Bronze recognition.
continued This work has led to increased focus on our supplier audit Advertising programme.
The introduction of new suppliers and new materials A. G. BARR fully complies with both the letter and the spirit of the involves a comprehensive approval process.
For new raw codes of practice set out by the Advertising Standards Authority materials, we carry out laboratory comparison testing and, in the Broadcast Committee of Advertising Practice code for occasionally, consumer testing.
For packaging materials, we carry broadcast advertising and the Committee of Advertising Practice out compatibility trials on our production lines and transit trials to code for non-broadcast advertising.
ensure that the packaging performs throughout our supply chain.
Our People We continue to require our suppliers to maintain the GM-free t 12% of Employees gained formal qualifications in 2010 11 status of all our raw materials.
t Investor in People status achieved t Safe and Sound working initiative introduced to all sites Our Consumers t 24% reduction in the number of RIDDOR accidents Our goal is to enable consumers to enjoy our soft drinks by offering a wide range of brands that meet a variety of consumer Our goal is to make A. G. BARR a great place to work both now needs and lifestyles.
We market our brands in a responsible and in the future.
manner in order to build trusted consumer relationships.
We recognise that our employees are critical to the future Health and Wellbeing success of the Company.
We invest in our employees to All our soft drinks can be enjoyed as part of a balanced diet and increase our capability to deliver our business objectives.
A. G. BARR provides a comprehensive range We aim to attract, retain and develop outstanding people by of soft drinks which offers a wide choice for all ages, to suit creating a culture where we support each other, where each individual needs and tastes.
Our drinks are available in a wide individual is encouraged to reach his or her full potential and range of pack sizes both for convenience and to exercise where we recognise and reward performance.
has their own agreed personal development plan detailing the planned learning and development activities which will help Guideline Daily Amount GDA labelling is deployed across them deliver their individual, team and business goals.
all our packs to provide consumers with information on the content of our drinks, allowing them to make informed choices.
34 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 96% of employees have attended our internal training programmes Board of Directors over the past year, covering a wide range of topics such as Management Skills, Personal Development and Health & Safety.
In addition, 43% of employees attended external training courses Safety Executive and 12% have gained formal qualifications under our stewardship during the year.
Management Safety Team Investors in People In 2010 11, A. G. BARR achieved the prestigious Investors Site Safety Committees in People Bronze recognition.
Investors in People helps organisations improve performance and realise objectives through the management and development of their people.
This external Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and assessment of our performance has allowed us to benchmark our Dangerous Occurrences RIDDOR performance, as well as identifying areas for further improvement.
The year to January 2011 has seen a 24% reduction in the number We will continue to work with Investors in People to review our of RIDDOR accidents from 17 to 13.
This has resulted in a 5% Continuous Improvement Plans for each of our sites in 2011 12. reduction in total days lost in 2010 11 396 to 377.
The severity of RIDDOR accidents has also reduced by 17% from 23 to 19.
Health and Safety Safety is led from the top, with the A. G. BARR board of directors Internal H&S Audits monitoring Company performance.
The Safety Executive, chaired The annual audit programme comprises seventeen internal audits, by the Finance Director and advised by the Health & Safety where sites are measured against good safety practices, safety Manager, develops safety policies and strategy.
The Management improvements, compliance against safe working systems and Safety Committee implements and reviews compliance with Company safety guidance notes.
policies and procedures and the local safety committees ensure local implementation of Company safety procedures and practices.
All sites have shown improvement in their audit score compared to last year.
The most notable improvement came from the Scotland Direct Sales Delivery SDSD operation, with an increase of 11% in their score compared to last year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Right: TV personality Preeya Kalidas receiving a Corporate Social Responsibility giant cheque on behalf of The British Asian Trust from A. G. BARR Commercial Director, Jonathan continued Kemp.
The donation was given by Rubicon, following a competition run at county cricket grounds.
The presentation was made at the Friends Provident t20 Finals at Southamptons Rose Bowl ground in Hampshire during August.
Rubicon was an ofcial partner of the t20 series.
The poster for an A. G. BARR Staff Open Day at our Cumbernauld site where over 1,200 people attended, helping to raise a phenomenal 2,200 on the day.
In line with this, we are extending Individual For the second year running, the Safe and Sound at Work Performance Related Reward further across our organisation Initiative was rolled out to all sites.
The two objectives of this to strengthen the link between performance and reward.
initiative were to identify areas of further safety improvement in the workplace and to continue to reduce the number of accidents In the past year, we have introduced total reward statements for in the workplace.
The safety initiatives applied to all A. G. BARR all employees, which bring together an individuals complete pay locations and ranged from hazard spotting, near miss reporting and benefits elements in a single, easily understood document.
and operator safety inspection training programmes, to safety We continue to operate numerous share related employee benefit projects targeting a reduction in vehicle and people accidents.
plans such as SAYE and AESOP, which both encourage share These initiatives helped many of the sites improve their audit ownership and act as a component part of the reward structure.
score and ensure that a good safety record is maintained.
The greatest improvement came from the SDSD operation, where Community the moving annual total MAT for RIDDOR accidents reduced We are committed to playing both a supportive and an active role by 71%, moving from a MAT of 7 to 2. in the community by providing financial, in-kind, practical and staff volunteering support to charitable organisations, good causes To complement the existing library of A. G BARR safety induction and community groups at both a local and national level.
materials, a new safety DVD has been produced.
It covers sales vehicle delivery safety, focusing on accident prevention, manual 1% of our profits are utilised in supporting charities, good causes handling related injuries, falls from vehicles and personal safety and community activities.
Active Lifestyle Reward and Recognition In 2010 we provided over 470,000 bottles of Strathmore By benchmarking our pay and benefits, we ensure that our Water to support a number of key road races and charity reward systems are competitive.
We also link business and events in Scotland, which helped raise much needed funds performance to individual reward systems, motivating our for many charities.
people to perform to high standards and to contribute to 36 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Education The Princes Trust We support The Princes Trust, which offers a number of Our partnership with The Princes Trust entered its third year in education programmes to help 14 to 30 year olds who 2010 11: we donate over 40,000 per annum to support their are in or leaving care, struggling at school, unemployed, work.
We were delighted to receive a letter of thanks from HRH or have been in trouble with the law, to find employment.
Prince Charles earlier in the year in recognition of the support and contribution that he felt we have made to the work of the charity.
Sport It has become the U. K. s leading youth charity, offering a range We have supported Queens Park FC, who are based at of opportunities, including training and personal development, Scotlands national football stadium Hampden Park, for over business start-up support, mentoring and advice.
Queens Park FC provides an extensive community football coaching programme.
We continued to invest in the work of The Princes Trust on a number of fronts.
In Scotland, we funded a 12 week project Health team programme in Glasgow, which culminated in our staff We supported a number of health related charities across and the project participants releasing a seasonal CD album the year, including The Christie Hospital Manchester.
of popular Christmas songs: this helped raise 2,500 for the charity.
In England, we supported The Princes Trusts xl Club Disadvantaged programme.
This offers extra support to pupils who are facing 2010 11 marked our 15th year of support for The Big Issue difficulties and underachieving at school.
Scotland and the start of a new partnership with The British Asian Trust.
The British Asian Trust In 2010 11, we entered into a new partnership with The British Asian Trust.
The British Asian Trust aims to serve as a social fund to support charities within areas of education, enterprise and health in South Asia Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka and the U. K. The British Asian Trust is part of The Princes Trust and we look forward to developing a strong working relationship with them.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 IRN-BRU also supported international comedian Corporate Social Responsibility Adam Hills efforts to raise funds for The Sick Kids Friends Foundation in Edinburgh.
continued Right top: David Hayman from Spirit Aid, who won the IRN-BRU sponsored Charity Award at the 2010 Great Scot Awards.
Right bottom: Our partnership with Lenzie Academy was recognised in November 2010 when Una Walker, Convenor of Education, and Gordon Currie, Head of Education, presented Aidan Flynn, Training and Development Manager, with a certicate to recognise A. G. BARRs contribution to employer engagement.
Two other staff fundraising activities also provided much needed Vendors buy the magazine for 1 and sell it for 2, making funds for The Princes Trust.
One was an A. G. BARR Staff Open 1 profit on each copy.
The Big Issue was set up to give Day at our Cumbernauld site during June 2010.
Over 1,200 people homeless people a chance to make an income.
Vendors attended, helping to raise a phenomenal 2,200 on the day.
are homeless, ex-homeless or may be vulnerably housed.
At Christmas, The Princes Trusts popular fundraising event, the Black & White Ball in Glasgow, auctioned off a number Other Charitable Community Organisations of items, including a carved IRN-BRU snowman, together We supported a number of other charitable organisations in with a Strathmore Mountain bike and book signed by Olympic 2010 11, including Wildhearts and The Prince & Princess of Champion Chris Hoy, which helped to raise a further 1,300.
In addition to this, we assisted many thousands of community groups, charities and good causes with Strathmore Spring water was once again the official water of donations of A. G. BARR products and merchandise which helped The Princes Trust and helped to boost funds by supporting them to raise much needed funds.
many fundraising activities and official Princes Trust dinners throughout the year.
During last winters water shortage in Northern Ireland, we supplied over 115,000 litres of Strathmore Spring Water to The Princes Trust helping to change young lives.
For more information go to www.
uk Community Support The Big Issue Scotland Great Scot Awards 2010 11 marked the 15th year of our support for The Big Issue In 2010 11, IRN-BRU teamed up with The Sunday Mail Scotland.
and event sponsor Morrisons to help recognise and support Scotlands unsung heroes at the Great Scot Awards ceremony.
During this period, we have committed over 200,000 of support Every year, hundreds of Scots give up their precious time to to the charitys weekly magazine.
help others and The Sunday Mails Great Scot Awards aim to recognise and thank them for their efforts.
IRN-BRU was proud to sponsor the Charity Award, an award dedicated to those who raise money for those less fortunate than most.
IRN-BRU also 38 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 collected 5p from every 500ml IRN-BRU bottle sold in Morrisons The Local Partnership Agreement is part of the Scottish Scottish supermarkets during August and donated the 6,285 Governments Determined to Succeed strategy for developing raised to the Great Scot Charity Award winner.
The winner was enterprise in education.
Our employees are engaged in a range Spirit Aid, a charity founded by actor David Hayman in 2001, of learning activities with the schools, including visits to our dedicated to supporting children and young people in Scotland Cumbernauld site to view our state of the art manufacturing, and around the world.
The charity is committed to alleviating the suffering of children We also continue to support a number of other community and young people whose lives have been devastated by war, and charitable organisations local to our sites, including poverty, genocide, ethnic cleansing and all forms of abuse.
The Cumbernauld Theatre, Shoot4Success Basketball Camps in Glasgow and Walk For Scotland in Edinburgh.
The Sick Kids Friends Foundation Edinburgh IRN-BRU also supported international comedian Adam Hills efforts to raise funds for The Sick Kids Friends Foundation a charity which supports the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh during his Edinburgh Fringe Festival show Andrew Memmott last summer.
Operations Director and Chair of the Environmental Committee Adam auctioned off limited edition IRN-BRU miniature taxis for the charity at his shows these were donated by A. G. BARR, which also made a cash donation to the charity.
Enterprise in Education Partnership Agreements We continue to work in partnership with Lenzie Academy and Westfield Primary School in Cumbernauld as part of the Enterprise in Education and Local Partnership Agreement Schemes.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 IRN-BRU SFL Youth Football Development As part of our commitment to Scottish football, we provided 70,000 of funding in 2010 to help the Scottish football league teams support their youth football development programmes.
Pictured is the Ginger Boot award which was launched at the beginning of the 2010 11 SFL season, with players from all three divisions competing for the same prize.
The Ginger Boots are awarded to the top goal scorer each month throughout the 2010 11 season.
40 40 A. G. BARR p. l. c. A. G. Barr p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 201 Annual Report and Accounts 201 1 1 25 Years Service Awards The following have achieved 25 years of service with the company.
Our thanks and congratulations to them.
Gerry Dickson John Wardrope Billy Thompson Driver sales representative, Driver sales representative, Driver sales representative, Cumbernauld Cumbernauld Cumbernauld Michael Turner Paul Park Mark Fellows Telesales operator, Newcastle Service driver, Newcastle Service driver, Sheffield A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Corporate Governance Howzat!
Offering Choice Rubicons brand ambassador Mark Great tastes, convenient formats.
Ramprakash helped select this years Consumer choice is vital in Rubicon Mango building successful brands.
Moments, a celebration of the most amboyant cricketing moments at Friends Provident Rubicon is now a brand with sales t20 televised matches in summer 2010. of circa 48m, around double the sales at the time of our acquisition.
With increasing levels of consumer awareness, improved levels of product distribution and a strong core consumer proposition, Rubicon increased its turnover by 28% in the year.
