44 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our commitment ARM is committed to integrating corporate responsibility and sustainability throughout its operations and understands that they are integral to our longterm business success.
In this section: Read more about Corporate responsibility summary p45 this on page Read more about Working at ARM p46 this on page Read more about Employee engagement p46 this on page Read more about ARMs role in the market p46 this on page Read more about ARMs place in the community p48 this on page Read more about ARMs environmental projects p49 this on page Read more about Conclusion p49 this on page Overview 11 45 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Introduction improve the monitoring and reporting of Corporate ourEnvironmental, Social and Governance For ARM corporate responsibility CR  ESG data.
In 2011, we launched a project to encompasses how the Group behaves improve the CR information on the ARM internally, in its communities and through website which will result in a new CR section its supply and value chains.
Also in 2011 we made sustainability activities include CR, as well increasing use of blogs, community forums as exploring the longterm contribution and wikis focused on different areas of CR theGroup can make to overcome the global toenhance existing internal communication challenges ahead.
New applications of ARM channels.
These allow ever increasing sharing technology, collaborative projects with For more information of information and, crucially, provide a way p25 ARMs extensive Partner ecosystem and see Our partnership for employees to contribute their opinions approach on page catalysing crosssector initiatives are all and to challenge ARM.
examples of how ARM can help make a positive impact.
ARM has very few companies in its supply chain but a very large number of companies Good corporate governance and strong For more information in its value chain through the extensive p66 stakeholder relationships are vital to all seethe Corporate ecosystem of ARM Partners.
Therefore we governance section ourbusiness activities, helping us to build onpage are not in a position to propose changes to the trust that is key to the success of our the actions of many organisations, but we partnership business model.
areable to utilise our existing relationships ARMs corporate governance structure toenable change through collaboration andprocesses allow for effective Group andthought leadership.
We are focusing on management.
They provide transparency creating positive opportunities and mutually inbusiness decisions and actions so that beneficial programmes through working weremain accountable to all stakeholders.
with organisations such asthe UN Global One of our aims is to continuously improve Compact, the American Council for an stakeholder communications particularly on EnergyEfficient Economy and the CR and sustainability issues.
goal, ARM has adopted the Global Reporting Our full corporate responsibility report can Initiative Guidelines which have served to be found at www.
ARMs supply and value chain influence ARM seeks to use its influence with both suppliers and Partners to improve corporate responsibility and sustainability throughout the value chain.
Partners Equipment Suppliers ARM Customers Manufacturers Consumers OEMs 46 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Working at ARM Employee engagement ARMs role in the market ARM relies on attracting and keeping the We conduct a comprehensive global Product responsibility best talent.
Over 80% of our workforce have opinionsurvey every two years to monitor ARMs technology is inherently lowpower a graduate education level or above and the employees views and provide valuable input and enables smarter, more energyefficient specialised nature of our work demands a on internal operations.
Through this survey products to be created by our Partners.
very high calibre of employee.
The welfare ARM can establish the overall level of ARM spends around 25% of its revenue ofour employees is therefore one of our employee engagement and identify any onthe research and development of highest priorities and our strategy is to issues to address.
In 2009 the survey energyefficient processing.
In 2011, we provide a competitive package of salary revealed that engagement was at 83%.
made a commitment to the United Nations andother benefits as well as an enjoyable Aprogramme of local and global actions Global Compact to accelerate this effort as working environment.
All employees are followed the survey to improve areas part of our work with their Caring for offered a proportion of their package in identified in the survey.
The 2011 results Climate and LEAD programs.
In 2011, equity in order to encourage them to think show that we are continuing to improve ARM announced several new products and and act like shareholders.
Wealso aim to ouremployee engagement, which has risen initiatives related to improving the efficiency provide an excellent and sustained return 5 points from 2009 to 88%.
The CortexA7 processor was launched in Regardless of country or region, all October 2011 and is ARMs most energy employees enjoy similar benefits, and efficient applications processor to date.
consistent global policies based on best Theenergyefficiency and small footprint practice.
ARM encourages open twoway ofthis processor will enable production of communication and knowledgesharing lowcost smartphones in2013 and beyond.
asshown in the diagram below.
These will deliver theperformance and capability of todays highend smartphones, and help to connect the next billion people to the internet.
Communication channels within ARM % 88 Overall employee engagement Global opinion survey, 2011 CEO Aims and Objectives Letter CEO Quarterly Updates Quarterly Results Presentations Team Updates Forums, blogs, 180 Feedback micro-blogs, ARM Feedback Senior LunchandLearn, ARM Employees and Development Management Wiki, Video & System AFDS Tele-Conferencing 1:1s Employee Survey Director Q&A Open Door Policy ARM Consultation Forum ACF Forums Whistleblowing Policy Overview 11 47 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 ARM believes that the server market must ARM has also invested in supporting and Customer satisfaction evolve to be more power and costefficient enabling the ARM Partnership to develop To monitor customer satisfaction, ARM inorder to realise its vision of a connected the next generation of ultraefficient smart synthesises responses from the diverse world.
With the current economic and motor controls.
Today, electric motors customer interactions we have through power realities, existing infrastructure generate approximately one fifth of total ourbusiness operations with direct feedback cannot meet either the needs of the next global emissions: smart motor control gained through formal customer support billion people who are starting to use systems are expected to enable energy satisfaction surveys.
We focus on particular technology in developing markets or the savings of 30%, which equates to a KPIs relating to overall satisfaction, ontime evolving needs of current users in developed potential6% reduction in total global delivery, product quality and support markets.
The transition to a cloud emissions.
Figures based on International response times.
This information is computing world is disruptive for the server Energy Agency, Electric MotorDriven reviewed by management and used to market, which is becoming increasingly Systems, 2011. resolve existing issues and implement segmented.
HP, who announced an ARM process improvements to minimise repeat Powered development platform called problems.
Through continued assessment RedStone in November 2011, believes that ofthis method we aim to ensure that lessons ARM technology has the opportunity to learned are fed into the product reduce power usage of servers by up to 90% development and deployment processes.
For more information p32 seeServers on page 6% 1bn 90% Potential total reduction in energy Potential market size for low-cost HPs estimate of potential system power consumption and global emissions smartphones in developing markets saving in data-centres through smarter motor control 48 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 ARMs place in the community Local TeamARM, our global team International ARM supported an ICT4D building and fundraising employee project run by the charity Literacy Bridge, In 2011 ARM introduced a more focused programme, saw events occurring at twelve which aims to provide information to people approach to charitable donations and locations.
Examples include the Taipei office who otherwise would not be able toaccess community sponsorship.
The Corporate conducting a beach clean, the Austin office itas a result of illiteracy, disability orpoor Donations and Sponsorship Committee holding a food bank donation drive and the infrastructure.
A durable and affordable CDSC includes four Executive Committee Cambridge office cycling from London to audio computer, called Talking Book, was members.
It was formed with the intention Cambridge.
An estimated 19% of the designed specifically for such situations.
of increasing all our community workforce participated in a TeamARM Piloted in Ghana, the device enabled users engagement activities in the future.
event with approximately 35 charities to access information on a range of topics Ourfour focus areas are STEM education benefiting and over 109,000 being raised, including health, farming and educational Science, Technology, Engineering and including ARM matching.
The results of early trials were Mathematics, ICT for International encouraging, with improved crop yields Development ICT4D, the Environment National Many of our national activities forfarmers and with 91% of Talking Book and the Local Community.
These range users applying a new health or agricultural from scholarships to gifted students who ARMs community initiatives happen on practice.
ARM is supporting the testing otherwise would not have the opportunity local, national and international levels.
anddevelopment of the second generation to continue their education, to the running Below are some examples of activities that of Talking Book by providing a CortexM of extracurricular school engineering clubs.
have occurred over the past year.
processor design to the University of Michigan, where the development ofTalking Book is taking place.
90% Of employees feel that ARM is active insupporting the local community Global opinion survey 2011 ICT4D Talking Book Piloted in Ghana, 91% of Talking Enabling access to information in Book owners applied a new health areas of poor infrastructure and oragricultural practice high illiteracy Overview 11 49 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 ARMs environmental projects In 2011, we reviewed our data collection Conclusion processes to identify possible improvements.
ARM understands that in order to set 2011 has seen a series of improvements to As a result, we now collect full data from improvement targets that are realistic our data collection, analysis and reporting 16sites and partial or accurately estimated andmeaningful we need to monitor processes that have already resulted in data from 10.
We will continue toimprove energyusage, resource consumption improvements to our CR performance throughout 2012. andwastecreation.
andwill ensure continued improvement throughout 2012.
The changes made as These goals are also in line with the ARM has an ambitious strategy for a low aresult of 2011s review of CR processes Environmental Issues Area of the UN Global carbon business operation, and has set andpolicies has already resulted in marked Compact and our commitments tothe goalsof: improvements to our community Caring for Climate and LEAD programs.
involvement strategy and in our 30% emission reduction in tons of CO2 The diagram below details the way in environmental data collection processes.
emission per employee by 2020: and whichownership for reaching our targets 2012 will start to see the results from 15% energy use reduction measured isintegrated across the business.
ourincreased focus on supporting the inKW hours per employee by 2020. development of efficient motors, our new charitable donations strategy and our Between 2009 and 2011 we achieved a 4% responses to further improve employee reduction in tons of CO emission per 2 engagement following the latest survey.
employee across ARMs four largest offices Cambridge, Bangalore, Austin This section intends to provide a brief andSan Jose which represent 71% overview and examples of our 2011 CR ofourproperty portfolio.
andsustainability activities: our full report Our Commitment 2011 is published on our website at www.
Emissions reduction responsibility structure Both hold ultimate responsibility for reviewing CEO & CFO andreaching corporate targets.
Sets the high level goals, advises on priorities andmakes recommendations to the Energy Use and Climate Change Committee Executive Committee.
Consideration of our goals permeates into Group Functions strategies and decision making process IT, Facilities, Procurement ofparticular functions across the business.
Formed and run by interested employees representing various functions across Employee Led Issue Groups thebusiness.
Through acceptance of and adherence Each Employee toGroup policies.
50 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financials Over the next few pages and risk we demonstrate how our business model is driving our longterm growth, andhow it places us in a strong financial position.
