Business review Sustainability being a responsible business Sustainability priorities Polymetal aims to create shareholder value whilst protecting the Our sustainability priorities are to: interests of employees, communities and wider society, in order Operate with the full co-operation to underpin the Companys long-term success.
Consequently, of local people, government responsible development and sustainability are crucial parts authorities and non-governmental of our overall strategy.
organisations NGOs In our view, sustainability is achieved The overall sustainability strategy is Maintain productive relationships through the provision of high quality designed to meet the requirements with local communities, jobs, secure and safe employment, of the UN Global Compact.
government authorities and protection of the environment and NGOs, where mining, processing a positive relationship with local This voluntary international standard or transportation is taking place communities and other stakeholders.
commits affiliated companies to We work hard to be a good compliance with ten principles in Provide excellent career corporate citizen in all of our the areas of human rights, labour, opportunities and compensation operational locations.
levels for people with diverse In 2009 Polymetal became an active skills and experience Scope of sustainability actions member of the UN Global Compact Polymetals sustainability actions Network in Russia.
Provide a safe, healthy and cover all Group operations, including positive working environment the headquarters in St. Petersburg The UN Global Compact is the for all employees and each of the subsidiary starting point for more detailed companies.
policies and associated management Deal fairly with suppliers, systems, all of which are defined customers and business partners Sustainability governance at Group level and implemented Sustainability is the ultimate through the head office and the Maintain an effective responsibility of the Group CEO, subsidiary companies.
Ongoing environmental management Vitaly Nesis.
To assist him, a Technical monitoring and regular audits ensure strategy in order to reduce any Council is convened monthly to review that performance is measured potential negative impact strategy and agree priorities and against the relevant regulatory actions.
Heads of department report and company internal requirements.
to the Council, covering employees, Stakeholders community outreach, health Stakeholder engagement Shareholders and investors and safety and environmental Our stakeholders help to define management.
The Council defines sustainability priorities and Employees and monitors sustainability strategy provide a vital check on how we and oversees implementation are performing.
We are, therefore, Government and regulatory bodies of associated policies across all open, honest and clear in the way operating subsidiaries.
The latter we communicate through corporate NGOs is the responsibility of the relevant reporting, company news, briefings, human resources, communications, hotlines and digital channels.
Local communities health and safety and environmental heads within these businesses.
64 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Working with Indigenous Minorities of the North Polymetal is currently the only maintaining boarding schools company in the Khabarovsk Territory and supporting the families of which recognises its responsibilities reindeer herdsmen.
Lyubov Passar Polymetal recognises the importance President of the Khabarovsk of direct assistance for indigenous Territory Association of Indigenous groups, including promoting village life, Minorities of the North Recognition from our stakeholders The investments were made in all Communities Polymetal has received formal areas of our operations and most are recognition for its actions from the part of long-term programmes, many Polymetal maintains positive working following stakeholders in 2011: of which were started in 2010.
The relationships with local authorities and ongoing and future implementation is local communities for doctors communities, where its subsidiaries very much driven by local authorities, visits and healthcare provision for operate.
We recognise that future communities and NGOs.
We have children in remote villages, material business growth will be underpinned established formal dialogue and support for elderly and vulnerable by such relationships in areas where feedback mechanisms with all of people and for a proactive we are planning new operations.
these stakeholder groups, including approach to tackling particular surveys, hotlines and public hearings.
social problems: Our community engagement Through this process, we have priorities are: NGOs for sponsoring cultural learned about the effectiveness of institutions, promoting sports and education and healthcare: the programmes and made some supporting ecological education development of local infrastructure: changes for 2012.
We have positive projects for young people: feedback and there is high level of sports and healthy lifestyles: Indigenous Minorities of the North support for the work.
local culture and creativity: and IMN associations for ongoing welfare of IMN.
support and co-operation with Supporting the Indigenous IMN, helping to preserve their Minorities of the North The standards expected of our cultural heritage and lifestyle: Maintaining long-term supportive subsidiaries and employees in managers in local sports, relationships with IMN communities relation to these priorities is set out healthcare, educational and is a priority for Polymetal.
We work in our Corporate Governance Code cultural organisations for with such communities in Chukotka, and Policy on Social and Charitable improving facilities and Magadan Region and Khabarovsk Investments.
purchasing equipment: and Territory, providing nomadic reindeer herding teams with materials, fuel, local government authorities for Community benefit in 2011 transport, healthcare and food.
ongoing co-operation, partnerships In 2011, our Russian subsidiaries and a contribution to local and paid taxes and made payments regional economic development to extra-budgetary funds of through direct investment as well US$40 million.
Taxes paid by the as tax payments.
Groups subsidiary in Kazakhstan Social investments in 2011 amounted to US$3 million.
Over In 2011, the Group CEO was given a and above our tax commitments, For Merit award by the Khabarovsk we maintained and enhanced local local administration in recognition of infrastructure and services, increased his and the Companys contribution employment opportunities, provided to social and economic development training and education for local people in the Territory.
and operated a long-term programme of community investment.
Community investment in 2011 We invested US$4.0 million in Education 27% Infrastructure 7% communities, with the principal Sports 39% IMN 7% Health 15% Cultural and creative emphasis on health, education potential 5% and sports related projects.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 65 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review Sustainability being a responsible business continued We also work with younger people in the Association of IMN in the to maintain an excellent working the IMN communities to explore and Khabarovsk Territory described and living environment for promote their own traditions and Polymetal as the best business employees and their families: and culture, including sponsorship of providing assistance in preserving to engender a positive working celebrations, involving music, art and developing ethnic cultures.
culture through clear and regular and ethnography.
In 2011, we funded two-way communication.
the publication of a book about the Employees Negidals, the smallest of the IMN Employment policies and profile communities, whose future is under We have clearly defined human An ability to recruit and retain high threat.
In the same year, we began resources policies for all employees.
quality motivated people is essential a long-term programme of support These cover recruitment, professional to the sustainable long-term growth for reindeer herders in the Okhotsk development, appraisal, training, of our business.
In line with the UN District, Khabarovsk Territory.
This resources and skills, organisational Global Compact, our main human involves the purchase of materials, design and motivation.
As at resources objectives are: veterinary medicines and transport, 31 December 2011, we employed to operate a fair and internationally repairs to equipment and grants to 8,747 people across the Group, competitive system of wages and assist in building up reindeer herds.
with 6,497 in production, 599 in benefits, linked to collective and exploration and 735 in research, individual performance: All of this work is done with the full development, design, logistics co-operation of IMN representatives.
to operate an effective training and and management.
Regular meetings provide us with career development programme: opportunities to identify their needs The Group operates an equal to ensure that all employees are and assess the success of our opportunities policy and is trained in occupational safety and funding programmes.
Accordingly, committed to fair employment accident prevention procedures: Community Investment Priorities Performance in 2011 To invest for the long term in communities Refurbished and re-opened a cinema in Amursk.
To improve Built eight playgrounds in remote communities.
the living standards of local residents through Refurbished and equipped seven nurseries, two schools, timely completion of development projects.
Improved residential infrastructure including gas and electricity To build residential and recreational facilities supply, street lighting and heating.
as part of wider community investment projects.
Provided medical services to 1,500 people in remote communities.
To improve two-way communication and Public reporting meetings held with communities in all access to information for and with remote regions of operation.
Adopted the Deer Breeding Support Programme after consultation with local communities.
Contributed to consultative councils and working groups with community and local authority representatives.
Organised site visits for representatives of local communities.
To establish sports clubs and facilities Equipped sports halls and facilities in seven remote communities.
Constructed and equipped a school stadium in Polina Osipenko District and ski school in Krasnoturinsk.
Organised and sponsored childrens sports competitions and supported three childrens hockey teams in remote communities.
66 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 A university partnership Polymetal has signed a five-year and also take an active part in cooperation agreement with the employment fairs, the annual North Eastern State University.
professional career event and practical research conferences organised We have a longstanding relationship with by the North Eastern State University.
the University, and over the last few years students have been completing preYevgeniya Prevysh-Kvinto degree practical training at Polymetals Deputy Head of Human Resources businesses in the Magadan Region.
We at the Magadan branch of the Polymetal supervise this training, review degree work Management Company practices for qualified people with injury compensation, transport programme.
An important component a disability, observing all applicable at work and transport to and from is the  labour and employment laws home, when working in remote areas.
scheme, which in 2011 offered 118 wherever its businesses are located.
Additional discretionary allowances students work experience at 9 plants, Every employee has equal access are also granted to reflect particular including return travel, accommodation to training, career development and roles and skills shortages in certain and a salary.
Under the scheme, promotion programmes, including markets and across certain functions.
children of employees also receive those with disabilities.
education support to degree level with Freedom of association the guarantee of employment at the Employee compensation In line with the UN Global Compact, all end of the course.
This has led to and benefits employees have the right to freedom a significant increase in the number Polymetal is fully compliant of association and to enter collective of student interns and graduates with all labour laws in Russia and agreements with the Group.
As a employed across the Group.
In 2011 and 2010, our consequence, employee managed average salary levels were between Workers Councils operate at all Training 3-30% higher when compared with major operating subsidiaries.
Where Ongoing professional development other mining companies, varying plants remain under construction and training is essential for on a region-by-region basis.
These or subsidiary companies have just operational integrity, safety and levels are set through collective joined the Group, local labour personal motivation.
Our appraisal agreements with employees in each standards are fully adopted as and training processes are, therefore, subsidiary, which recognise that the a precursor to the establishment comprehensive and cover all aspects salary is linked to the quality of an of formal Workers Councils.
A new appraisal individuals work and the overall system adopted in 2010 measures performance of the Group.
Selection and appraisal each employees personal Polymetal is committed to being development and identifies career Expenditure on social benefits in 2011 an employer of choice for young, paths within the Group.
The training was US$3,950 per employee.
These educated and ambitious professionals.
framework includes both distance benefits include pensions, medical We, therefore, offer a wide range of and experiential learning and care, access to sports facilities, clubs career paths, backed by excellent continuing professional development, and competitions, nursery and school benefits packages.
This emphasis with opportunities to attend specialist provision, food and accommodation, on skills retention, development and courses, conferences and when working away from home, transfer provides many opportunities exhibitions.
Specialist engineering for internal candidates to progress and environmental management within the business.
Polymetal Engineering, the internal centre of Number of employees 2011 Given the growth of our business, it is excellence, places great emphasis not always possible to identify suitable on training and professional internal candidates, so we also operate development for its engineers an extensive external recruitment and environmental professionals.
Production 74% Development projects 10% Exploration 7% Research, development, design, logistics and corporate management 9% Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 67 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review Sustainability being a responsible business continued Internal communications practices.
This feedback is channelled The system complies with ILO-OSH Given the scale and geographic through mailboxes at every plant, 2001, OHSAS 18001 and GOST R spread of our business, we use telephone hotlines, direct contact with 12.0.
007-2009. many communication channels to plant management, direct contact keep employees informed about with the Group CEO, the corporate In 2011, health and safety activity Group-wide developments.
Our website and The Northern Latitude.
focused on: monthly newspaper, The Northern We track feedback and ideas on going implementation, operation Latitude, is a key communications and are committed to responding and refinement of the system: tool with different editions published within a certain time to all such r educing workplace injuries: according to specific Group activities.
In 2011, 397 e nhancing the culture of safety Our regular employee surveys employee messages were delivered across all operations: highlight the high regard in which and responded to via this system.
The Northern Latitude is held.
For example, employee feedback in e nsuring that the latest employee Mayskoye led to changes in the way safety techniques and equipment Events are also important in terms food is purchased and delivered, are applied: and of sharing experiences and building the provision of new equipment e nhancing safety training and morale.
Metallurgists, Geologists in factory canteens, the building of techniques for motivating and Miners Days are celebrated new bathing facilities, the opening employees.
across the Group with awards of a physiotherapy unit and an ceremonies, gala concerts, sports improved library.
We operate 102 production sites competitions and activities for and processes, each with its own children and local communities.
These include open Health and Safety Gifts are distributed to first year and underground mines, geological schoolchildren on the Day of exploration sites, ore processing Our approach to Health and Safety is Knowledge and war veterans and explosive depots, as well as governed by our employee protection are recognised on Victory Day.
transportation of people, equipment, and workplace safety management spoil and ore. Every employee system.
This is designed to detect, In 2007, we initiated a formal employee receives illustrated guides, backed up assess and manage production feedback system to channel corporate by regular briefings and formal training risks, ensure employee health and information, receive comments sessions, and is provided with the workplace safety, and define the on management decisions and necessary equipment and workwear.
safe use of buildings and equipment.
suggestions for improved working Indicators 2011 2010 % Change Workplace accidents Emergencies 2007 10 Incidents 2008 14 Accidents 11 24 -54 2009 16 Occurrences 14 14 0 2010 24 Occurrences with sub-contractors 9 10 -10 2011 11 Injury frequency coefficient 1.3 3.5 -63 Injury gravity coefficient 49 75 -35 Lost time injury frequency rates LTIFR 0.7 1.9 -63 Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR 0.5 -100 68 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 This is backed up by ongoing internal of energy, employee involvement Environment audits that identify areas of poor and in environmental management positive practice, in order to maintain and prevention of accidents with Polymetals operations generate the integrity of the system.
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, liquid effluent and air Workplace accidents Environmental governance emissions, use significant volumes In 2011, there were 11 workplace Group performance is managed of water and displace significant accidents across the Group, none by the environmental department quantities of soil.
Whilst complying of which were fatal.
This reflected a at its headquarters in St. Petersburg, with all relevant national and regional major upgrade of the health and safety from where the environmental environmental legislation, our system following poor performance management system is defined and environmental priorities are: in 2010, which saw 24 such accidents, monitored.
This system was revised pollution prevention: six of which were fatal.
The severity and updated in 2011 in line with reduction in greenhouse of incidents in 2011 was also reduced the ISO 14001 standard and in gas emissions: compared to the previous year, with accordance with relevant legislation a 50% decrease in serious incidents.
efficient use of energy and natural resources: and Work-related illness The Group environmental effective management of waste.
No cases of production-related department comprises specialists illness were recorded in 2011.
Each in water pollution management, These priorities are addressed employee receives, as a minimum, an water treatment, air quality, land through the adoption and effective annual health check from one of our management and ecology.
Each use of technology, ongoing medical professionals.
In some cases, of our subsidiary companies has refinement of management these checks identify the need for its own environmental team, processes, rational use of natural specific treatment, for example responsible for management and resources, reuse and recycling of treatment away from the workplace monitoring and the provision of waste, efficient use and conservation in one of our health centres.
monthly reports to the Group.
Safety is a personal matter condition of their clothing and personal at the Omolon hub we now require all safety equipment and the type of work foremen to maintain electronic SRA logs, that they are about to do.
Through this the data from which is used to adjust discipline, the employees essentially safety procedures as and when new carry out their own assessment of the issues arise, and the system is being degree of risk, leading them to make rolled out across all Group operations a conscious decision about the in the Magadan Region.
acceptability or otherwise of that risk.
Having deployed SRA, we can see Experience has shown that the success the benefits it brings in terms of personal of this approach depends largely on responsibility and safety.
It is very Our new shift risk assessment SRA the attention paid to the process by the much here to stay as an integral part system is placing a much greater employee and their colleagues, which of our overall health and safety emphasis on personal health and in turn places more responsibility on management system.
safety assessment at the Dukat and foremen and supervisors.
At the start of a shift, a high degree of communication and Konstantin Savchuk each employee will make a note on feedback from all parties, which in turn Head of the Industrial an SRA card about the nature and improves safety practices.
Consequently, Safety Department Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 69 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review Sustainability being a responsible business continued Air quality, surface water and ground Federal Service for Supervision Employee environmental training water samples, collected through this of Natural Resource Usage.
Our Human Resources department system, are analysed at laboratories, annually reviews environmental certified to international standards.
Environmental teams at each plant, training opportunities at both We also have one of the largest supported by headquarters specialists national and international level.
in-house engineering operations and Polymetal Engineering, monitor An in-house training programme also in the Russian mining sector.
performance and ensure compliance supplements ongoing professional Polymetal Engineering employs against the Group system and external development with site visits and more than 100 specialists in the standards.
Each design and construction of mines year, our environmental managers and processing facilities and, since Environmental compliance attend the All-Russian Industrial 2010, has included an environmental Environmental auditing and monitoring Ecologists Seminar for an update management function.
of Group subsidiaries is undertaken on environmental legislation.
Specific by state regulatory authorities in courses, attended by environmental Auditing and monitoring line with the requirements of relevant specialists, include those, covering Environmental audit and monitoring environmental legislation.
environmental management systems, activities are built into the overall hazardous waste, land reclamation, environmental management system Regulatory authorities specify, that we water quality assessment and and comply with the requirements make quarterly payments in line with environmental security.
of relevant Russian and Kazakh the intensity of monitoring and auditing legislation.
In 2011, these payments undertaken by state supervisory amounted to US$2.3 million, a third authorities such as the Russian more than in 2010 and in line with the substantial expansion of our production capacities over this period.
Environmental management at Albazino subsurface rock, passes along the Ongoing monitoring of water and soil conveying pipe into a tailings pond, quality is undertaken as a mandatory where layers of impervious soil and requirement across the whole of a polyethylene membrane prevent the Albazino mining and processing any leaks.
After cleaning, the water plant.
The resulting samples are tested from the pond is used in the plants on-site by an independent laboratory.
Lyudmila Koval The preparation plant has installed Environmental protection tanks, that store sediment from specialist at the Khabarovsk quarry and undersoil water.
branch of the Polymetal One of the main objectives for Management Company environmental specialists, working As this water passes through at Albazino, is to prevent the pollution filtration dams, it is cleansed of oil of surface and underground water.
and impurities particles beforeit is Industrial waste, a mix of water and discharged to local water courses.
70 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Laboratory testing for environmental impact analysis Environmental management performance Air emissions Stripping, mined waste storage and energy 2011 4,980.6 total, tonnes generation and use are the main sources of air 2010 4,612.8 emissions, mainly representing greenhouse gas.
Air emissions We continue to optimise energy usage at all plants.
2011 4.72 per 10 Kt of ore produced Production levels at existing mines and plants 2010 6.17 continued to grow, consequently, air emissions per tonne of ore reduced by 26% between 2010 and 2011.
Greenhouse gas emissions Power and energy generation boiler houses, diesel 2011 1.99 per 10 Kt of ore mined power plants are the main sources of greenhouse 2010 1.90 gas emissions.
More remote sites, operating in the areas, where electricity is generated using diesel gensets, were operating in 2011, therefore the greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of ore mined grew by 5%.
Waste volume The total volume of waste from all operating 2011 65,844 Kt and type subsidiaries is broken down as follows: 2010 50,478 88% mined waste: 11% tailings from metal production: and 1% other production and consumption waste.
The increase in 2011 reflects the addition of new processing facilities.
Waste In 2011, we further optimised production at Dukat, 2011 5.985 per tonne of ore produced Omolon and Varvara.
This allowed us to reduce the 2010 6.754 volume of waste per tonne of ore produced between 2010 and 2011.
Waste water discharge Waste water discharge to surface waters from 2011 5,318.1 to surface waters all company processing sites, open-cut mines 2010 4,591.8 tonnes and mine dumps.
Waste water Increased and widespread use of close water 2011 4.83 per 10 Kt of ore mined circuits at all of our processing facilities has led 2010 6.14 to a reduction of waste water volumes per tonne of ore produced.
Environmental incidents No environmental incidents, environmental fines and fines or penalty notices, were issued in 2011 and 2010.
Environmental expenditure Expenditure on environmental management 2011 5.6 US$ million and capital construction of environmental 2010 3.0 protection facilities excluding expenditure relating to compliance.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 71 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
