PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report Introduction The PZ Cussons Plc CSR Committee We are committed to conducting our The Board is responsible for overseeing business with integrity and with care CSR within the Company, supported insofar as the social and environmental by a CSR Committee the composition impact of our activities is concerned.
We of which is set out on page 46 within aim to make a positive impact on society the report on corporate governance.
through the products which we produce and sell, through the way in which our The CSR Committee was established to products are manufactured and packaged ensure that the principles of CSR remain at and through the contributions we make to the core of the Groups business activities.
the communities in which we operate.
The terms of reference of the CSR We also recognise that our good Committee and further details regarding its reputation and our continued success members are available on the Companys as a business are largely dependent on website www.
how we discharge our responsibilities, as a Group and as individuals, to all of The CSR Committee and the Board have our stakeholders.
Those stakeholders reviewed and endorsed this CSR report.
include our shareholders, customers, consumers, suppliers, employees, the wider community and the environment.
This report sets out how we have put into practice the Groups values and principles in relation to key aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR during the year.
CSR describes how a business: recognises the ways in which its actions affect those around it: and regulates those actions so that, consistent with sustainable business and development, they have a positive impact.
We consider the principles of CSR to be integral to how the Group conducts its operations and key to the results which the Group has delivered in the past and to its continued success and development in the future.
26 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In doing so, it is the belief of the Board Forest Footprint Disclosure FFD and the CSR Committee that we will make FFD engages with private sector our business stronger, more sustainable companies to ask them to disclose 100% and, as a consequence, more profitable.
their forest footprint based on exposure to certain key commodities, As a member of the The Statement has been rolled out across including palm oil, timber and cattle RSPO, PZ Cussons has all of the Groups businesses and its products, within their operations and a commitment to 100% policies and principles apply to every supply chains.
We take seriously the Certified Sustainable director, manager and employee in all our deforestation risk which can occur if businesses across our global operations.
companies fail to adopt responsible Palm Oil via RSPO procurement practices and in 2010 the approved supply chain A copy of the full Doing Good Business Committee resolved to participate for mechanisms by Statement on Corporate Social the first time in the FFD project.
During 31 May 2015 Responsibility is available on the Companys the year, the Company engaged with website www.
FFD to discuss how we are managing deforestation risk and the Company During the year, the principal matters is developing an action plan.
The for the Committee have included: Committee has committed to participate Communication the Committee in the FFD project in future years.
has sponsored a communication Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil programme across all operating units, RSPO PZ Cussons became a member inspiring our employees to embrace of the RSPO last year.
A number of the the Big 6 and asking them to share Groups products contain palm oil or their CSR stories and best practice its derivatives and the CSR Committee from around the Group.
Some of those recognises the real concerns over the stories are set out in this report.
sourcing of palm oil and the potential Doing Good Business Audit the Committee has also led the for damage to the environment.
The Last year, the CSR Committee developed Big 6 Health Check, a review of CSR RSPO is a not-for-profit association a Statement on Corporate Social across every one of our businesses, which unites stakeholders from Responsibility, called Doing Good to identify what we are doing well and across the palm oil industry including Business, which sets out the Groups key what we can improve.
This will help environmental or nature conservation values and principles.
The Statement sets the Committee focus its efforts in the Non-Governmental Organisations out the Big 6: the six principal areas in coming year on those areas where we NGOs and social or developmental which our operations have the greatest can make the greatest positive change.
Its mission is to advance the potential to impact either favourably or Polices and procedures we believe production, procurement and use of adversely upon our stakeholders.
They are: that Good Business happens where sustainable palm oil products through The environment our employees act in accordance the development, implementation and Health and safety with our values.
To help facilitate that, verification of credible global standards Product testing and consumer safety during the year the Committee has led and the engagement of stakeholders Business conduct and ethics a process to incorporate the Big 6 into throughout the supply chain.
During Our employees key business processes including capital the year, the Committee approved a Local community and charity expenditure applications and codes of commitment to move to 100% Certified conduct for Group suppliers.
This process Sustainable Palm Oil via RSPO approved Recognising that doing the right thing in will continue over the coming year.
supply chain mechanisms by 31 May business can sometimes seem to involve Carbon Disclosure Project CDP the 2015.
We are working with our suppliers, difficult decisions, the Statement is Committee has committed to participate sub-contractors and the wider value intended to provide everyone throughout in the CDP.
The CDP is an independent chains to promote and communicate the Group, at all levels within the business, not-for-profit organisation which holds sustainable palm oil production, with guidance on how to conduct their one of the largest databases of corporate procurement and consumption.
business activities and on what good climate change information in the world Bribery Act on behalf of the Board of business looks like at PZ Cussons.
It is and is considered the gold standard for Directors, the Committee has also led the also intended to motivate and support all carbon disclosure methodology and Companys response to the introduction our employees to identify and vigorously process.
The Group has submitted its in the UK of the Bribery Act, building pursue opportunities across the Group to third report in 2011 and continues to focus on work already initiated as part of our optimise our activities so far as their social on ways to reduce its carbon footprint.
and environmental impact is concerned.
27 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Doing good business during the year Selected Markets Understanding how we impact local communities, environments and businesses and taking proactive steps to make improvements can create consumer loyalty.
PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation The Foundation has now completed 24 The Group also provided direct financial PZ Cussons has been in Nigeria for more projects in 13 different locations across the support.
The proceeds of fundraising than a 100 years and has always recognised country.
Projects during the year include: activities by local staff were matched by its responsibilities as one of Nigerias in partnership with the Voluntary PZ Cussons Australia and PZ Cussons leading companies and employers.
Over Services Organisation VSO and the Plc made an additional contribution of the years, we have supported a wide range Jigawa State Government, funding A$25,000 to the relief fund.
Employees of initiatives and projects to assist the the provision of European lecturers also volunteered their time to assist with countrys development and to improve the to teach English and mathematics at packing food and products and to help with quality of life of its citizens.
The PZ Cussons the States College of Education a distribution drive for disaster victims.
Nigeria Foundation was founded in 2007 to the renovation of a maternity bring greater focus to those activities and centre and clinic Yolanda Uys, Group Marketing to support projects in Nigeria in respect of the construction of classrooms Manager, Homecare, was involved in transport and roads, fresh water, sanitation, and boreholes in support of a PZ Cussons Australias response: health and education.
The Foundation funds number of communities and implements projects which promote the the construction of a new health centre Having managed the PZ Cussons flood well-being of local people, are sustainable appeal internally, I was overwhelmed by and produce innovative solutions which can Flood relief in Australia the enthusiasm and passion employees be easily replicated throughout the country.
At the turn of the year, Australia experienced showed in not only participating in its worst floods in living memory with our fund-raising initiatives but also in large parts of Queensland devastated volunteering time and helping out by and widespread damage also across New packing food.
PZ Cussons people certainly South Wales and Victoria.
Whilst all our showed a CANDO spirit and pulled employees at PZ Cussons Australia were together to support our community in safe, many were affected by the floods the tough times its part of our DNA.
and wanted to do what they could to aid It was a privilege being a part of this the flood relief response.
PZ Cussons team and helping contribute to making Australia provided assistance in a variety a difference to people in need.
The business donated products and worked with customers and others to set up mobile laundries and to ensure continued distribution of required products like anti-bacterial handwash.
28 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Leading Brands Understanding consumer aspirations, needs and expectations in ethical and environmental issues and creating innovative brands, products and services which fulfil these needs can help generate Original Source new market opportunities.
The new range contains Fairtrade Honey from Southern Chile and Fairtrade Shea butter from West Africa Partnership with the Fairtrade Foundation All of the honey which we use in our Byotrol is an innovative technology During the year, Original Source teamed products is Fairtrade and comes from the company which has developed a new up with the Fairtrade Foundation to Valdivia region of Southern Chile.
Through hygiene technology giving long-lasting, launch our first Fairtrade products.
Annie Fairtrade, we support the members of anti-microbial protection in a much Anstey is Senior Brand Manager for the the co-operative which produces the safer and more caring way than was Original Source team at PZ Cussons honey by paying them a fair price for their previously possible.
The company and was involved in the project: honey, as well as the Fairtrade premium had previously worked with partners which they can invest in their business in the healthcare, food production Original Source has always been careful or community, and we are investing in and animal welfare sectors.
to source natural ingredients from across their laboratory facilities through our the world to use within our range of Fairtrade Trading Partnership Plan.
Hygiene is a real issue in Nigeria.
We spent shower gels, bathing foams, hair care time in ordinary Nigerian households products and handwashes.
We know The shea butter comes from Burkina and we realised that there was a real that our consumers care about what Faso in West Africa.
Shea nuts play an opportunity for us to partner with Byotrol goes into our products and how the important economic role in the region to introduce an effective anti-bacterial ingredients are sourced.
This year we where they are the primary source of household cleaning product which would are very proud to have gone one step income for women who harvest and provide long-lasting protection and make further and to have teamed up with the sort the nuts and produce the shea a real contribution to improving the health Fairtrade Foundation to create three butter.
We are continuing to work on of consumers in the country.
The range new, even more sustainable products.
our commitment to the UGPPK, Union was launched around the turn of the year of Shea Butter Producers, who make and is the first household, kitchen and Fairtrade Foundation is an independent our lovely shea butter its an exciting bathroom cleaning product to deliver non-profit organisation who work with project for us to be involved with!
In that sense, it businesses, farmers and consumer is a totally new and revolutionary product.
groups to seek better prices and New technology into Nigeria Our relationship with Byotrol was also working conditions, local sustainability Earlier this year, PZ Cussons entered a great example of how we can work and fair terms of trade for farmers and into partnership with Byotrol to develop with a technology partner to introduce workers in the developing world.
a new range of multipurpose cleaners high performance products which are for the Nigerian market under our profitable and which can also make a Morning Fresh brand which has a positive change in the developing world.
strong market share in the country.
Paul Evans, Group Research and Development Director, collaborated on the project: 29 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Doing good business during the year Working with the Seashell Trust pay the medical bill for 23 mothers who Great Team of People PZ Cussons has had a close relationship were detained at Pumwani Maternity with the Seashell Trust for a number of Hospital, Nairobi for lack of funds to years.
The Trust offers specialist provision pay for their maternity expenses.
In for pupils aged between two and 19 who addition, our Cussons Baby Assistant have severe and complex disabilities, Brand Manager, Elizabeth Maina and our Having ethical people policies and combined with communication difficulties.
Cussons Baby Nurse Ms Esther Ndumia encouraging employee involvement visited the Pumwani Maternity Hospital improves employee engagement and Kate Williams is creative perfumer at and paid bills worth Ksh.
300,000 for loyalty and can help us to attract and Seven, the Groups fragrance house: mothers, also giving out Cussons baby retain the best talent hampers.
In another event, a team of 10 Im always asked to come up with different employees took part in the annual Mater fragrances for the Group and I was keen Heart Run, raising funds for children to see how we could use smell to help in need of heart surgery.
We intend to communicate with the children.
We looked support this initiative for years to come.
at the childrens needs and then I created The schools programme in the UK some simple smells.
Initially, we infused Charity work in Thailand Laura McCourt is a scientist working in pictures of objects with fragrance to see research and development at the Groups if that helped the children to choose what Personal Wash Centre of Excellence they wanted to drink, for example, but the in Agecroft, Manchester, UK.
really exciting thing is how smell has also helped them to identify the objects better.
I got involved in Doing Good Business I made scents for three themed rooms with at PZ Cussons UK a couple of years ago a different fragrance for each.
Working with when I took on the position of schools coa small group of children, we then used ordinator at Agecroft.
This year has been the same fragrance to mark certain objects a busy one for me.
One of my highlights which represented each of those rooms and was the work we did with students from found that it helped some children to get Salford City Academy who embarked on to those rooms independently rather than a Young Enterprise project to design and being prompted by the teachers.
During the make their own shampoo.
The year before, year, I attended the International Congress we had invited the girls to come to Agecroft on the Education of the Deaf in Vancouver, and they had met Charles Worthington together with Anne Gough, the Deputy at our salon.
This year the girls swapped Head at the Trust, to present our findings.
Jeremy Cartwright was Regional Supply the hair salon for the science laboratory to There has been a lot of interest, from as Chain Director for Asia when he decided to make 200 bottles of their own shampoo far away as America and South Africa, test his endurance on an 80km bike ride in product.
They chose the bottle, cap, and Im looking forward to continuing to support of a childrens home in Thailand: fragrance and aesthetics themselves and work on the project with Anne and the even designed the label!
They didnt believe Trust to see where we can take this.
Do you ever wonder if you can still do what they could do it at first but they loved the you used to?
Well, 25 years ago I used to end product and its been a big confidence The experience has been fantastic and cycle quite a bit but havent done so since.
Our involvement with these one of the best parts of my job.
I have So when I heard about a charity bicycle students over the last two years seems been allowed to be a bit daring with the ride supporting a disabled childrens home to have had a very positive impact with project and it has taken me outside of near our factory in Thailand, Rainbow half of the group now deciding to stay on my comfort zone and required me to do House, I decided to give it a go.
The route for further education which is fantastic.
things I wouldnt ordinarily expect to do.
was 80km long, from Ayuthya, a beautiful The schools co-ordinator role is a really It has also taught me that its OK to be historical city, to Pakkret on the outskirts rewarding one.
As a result of the schools proud of the work you do and that I can of Bangkok.
Most of the route was flat and work, I am certainly more confident and be proud of being part of PZ Cussons.
so not too hard on the legs the seat was I have developed real self-belief about another thing!
but the biggest issue was what I can achieve if I put my mind to it.
Helping mothers in Kenya the heat with cloudless sky and an average Its also really helped my communication Our colleagues at PZ Cussons Kenya temperature during the ride of 35 degrees and organisational skills.
The schools are passionate about really making a Celsius!
I am pleased to say I made it OK work has really made me feel like I have difference in the local community: and managed to raise 870 for the charity.
A made a difference over the past couple of highlight of the day was definitely arriving years and its my favourite part of my job.
We recently participated in the True at the childrens home and joining the song Loves Fashion High Tea.
This event and dance show they had prepared for us.
brought together 400 high profile Kenyans Thanks to everyone who supported me, whose objective was to raise money to including my colleagues at PZ Cussons.
30 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Thailand: 76% reduction in waste sent Light pipes World Class Supply Chain to landfill Schimatari factory in Greece extended its Over three quarters of the solid waste from packing material warehouse.
To light the the Pathumthani factory in Thailand used to whole area, solar pipes were installed.
be bleaching earth a naturally occurring Daylight is directed from the rooftop using substance which had been used to absorb advanced optics and highly reflective Ethical sourcing approaches can help coloured molecules from vegetable oil.
This tubes into the area below, enhancing the generate efficiencies creating margin is now used in the animal feed industry, a light inside.
The electricity consumed by improvement, as well as creating great improvement for the environment.
lighting this area was reduced by 85%.
sustainable sources and improving Only for the 60 most cloudy days of the supplier relations Kenyan factory delivers electrical year is electrical lighting used, for just energy savings two to three hours in the morning.
PZ Cussons Kenya has not stopped after its environmental recognition last Antonis Liaros is one of the workers year.
They conducted an energy audit responsible for material handling in to identify key opportunities to reduce the warehouse: New detergent tower eliminates effluent energy consumption and, during the year, implemented changes to motors Not only do we not consume energy for across the factory, including adding the lighting of the warehouse, but also variable speed drives to the boiler fan, and we have solar light indoors, which gives replacing a large motor by one with 25% a great feeling of health and well-being.
Based on the success Why not take advantage of a fraction of their upgrades, they now plan only to of the suns power?
When suppliers purchase high efficiency motors in future.
visit, they see the well lit area and cannot believe that we havent hidden Recovering heat for winter warmth an electric light inside the solar tube.
Lean Masterclass investing in our people PZ Cussons Australia is in its second year of Lean Master Class and Lean Framework Implementation process.
Over the two years the business has delivered improvements which are based Ikorodu in Nigeria is home to our detergent on identification and reduction and in powder facility where 15 million has some cases elimination of waste.
Master been invested in a new efficient detergent Class Champions are instrumental in powder process.
The process has improved developing waste reduction opportunities energy efficiency by using waste heat in their areas.
Changeover processes, which would previously have been lost material transportation, packaging and to the atmosphere.
Air emissions are bulk material disposal are just some of well within European standards and it is the areas where opportunities have been a zero-effluent plant all water is re-used identified.
All activities have helped to within the process.
The technology has In Wroclaw, Poland, the detergent powder reduce waste, improve the Companys delivered improved product quality, superior operation had heat in its condensed steam financial position and raise environmental efficiencies and improved safety for the staff.
which was difficult to recover.
At the same awareness in the Dandenong operation.
time, heating of the detergents area for Sunday Fabiyi is the control room staff essential in a Polish winter involved operator in the new tower: piping hot water across the site.
Now heat from the condensate is fed to the room I am pleased with the new plant heaters, saving 60,000 kWh per year.
and with the automation as it makes operations and co-ordination easy.
I am Stefan Lupa was originator of the idea and delighted that I was able to develop the was Project Leader: new skills required to operate the new tower and to be part of the team who This improvement allows me to increase delivered this challenging project.
the capacity of heating in winter time in the detergents area.
Im really proud of the co-operation with our technical team 31
