Business review Corporate responsibility review Sustainable procurement Performance overview An important part of developing a sustainable and responsible business is managing how and what we buy to ensure best value Progress in the year for money, taking into account environmental and socio-economic ISO 14001 for UK sites maintained, following audits issues.
In the UK, QinetiQ is a signatory to the MODs Sustainable Procurement Charter and an active member of the MOD-Industry 7% reduction in CO emissions achieved in the UK 2 Sustainable Procurement Working Group.
QinetiQ has been active UK waste recycling at 72% in raising employee awareness of sustainable procurement through Progress on delivery of UK conservation management plans training, employee campaigns and leadership team briefings and A chieved MOD sustainable procurement target through the corporate induction for UK employees.
U K RIDDOR rates reduced 1.69, down from 3.69 Engaging our people A ction plans put in place following employee Employee communications engagement survey Our people play a crucial role in enabling the Group to achieve Future goals its goals, particularly in realising the significant change embarked Reduction in reportable UK incidents to zero by 2014 upon within the Group.
Engaging employees begins with keeping our people informed, through a range of channels.
The UK QinetiQ 1 0% reduction in UK carbon emissions by 2012 Employee Forum continues to provide a way by which employee Attainment of ISO 18001 in the UK by 2013 engagement is enhanced.
The My Contribution programme gives C ontinue to improve waste management in the UK employees a forum to voice ideas for business improvements and C ontinue to work proactively with customers and suppliers convert them quickly into projects that benefit the Companys on sustainable procurement issues bottom line.
U se of the employee engagement survey to Once again the UK and Australian business took part in the Best make improvements Companies Survey, giving employees an opportunity to share their views on working in QinetiQ.
A 77.5% response rate was achieved along with a higher score than in 2010.
Employee engagement has been a key part of QinetiQ North Americas A responsible and sustainable business QNA programme of bringing many separate companies together Leadership and management into one business and an engagement survey is also undertaken.
With a wide network of domain experts across the UK, Australia and the US, corporate responsibility CR is embedded in the business, People development overseen by the Head of CR.
The CR Committee, comprising the The Group is an equal opportunities employer, upholds the QinetiQ Executive Team, continues to review and support the CR principles of the UK Employment Services Two Ticks symbol strategy and projects.
and is accredited by Investors in People.
The Group Business Ethics Policy provides a framework for how QinetiQ continues to support the development and employability the Group operates.
However, regional differences in stakeholder of our people, from apprentices and graduates to our current requirements and law, require priorities to be fine-tuned locally.
The Personal Success Plan PSP, QinetiQs QinetiQ responds promptly to changing legislation by adapting local performance management process, was introduced last year policies, such as health and safety, environment, business ethics in the UK and Australia and has been successfully rolled out and equality.
It is a key mechanism for the identification of top talent, as well as addressing any employee performance issues.
Business ethics Progress on the Business Ethics programme is now reported Employee wellbeing quarterly to the Compliance Committee.
The Group is committed UK and Australian employees have access to an Employee Wellbeing to the highest standards of ethical conduct and, in the forthcoming Programme providing information and support on financial, legal year, a Group-wide Code of Conduct will replace separate UK and and family matters and counselling.
UK employees also have US documents.
All employees are required to complete regular a benefits package through QinetiQ Currency.
QNA provides training in business ethics.
More in-depth training is provided for an excellent package of healthcare benefits for employees, an employees who are involved in international business.
QinetiQ Employee Assistance Programme and a purchase discount scheme.
engages with third parties, such as TRACE to conduct due diligence associated with engaging representatives overseas.
All employees have access to an independent whistle-blowing line.
RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995.
24 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Safe and sustainable delivery Environmental management and conservation Safety is a priority of the business.
A review of our UK Health, Safety The UK business continues to maintain ISO 14001:2004 and Environment HS&E provision during 2010 highlighted the certification, confirming evidence of effective controls as part need to further develop our HS&E and Assurance management to of Company Environmental Management Systems, which cover improve leadership and focus.
In August 2010, a Director of HS&E a broad range of activities.
The Australian business has also was appointed and two lead roles for occupational safety and for established a small group responsible for developing environmental environment and sustainability were created.
They head up a new initiatives.
A responsible and proactive approach is taken to the and invigorated HS&E function aligned with the business and with stewardship of the many Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSI a strategy focused on developing a strong HS&E and Assurance that are managed in the UK.
Conservation management plans in culture and competencies.
Waste Group health As part of QinetiQ UKs waste-management programme, data and safety data 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 collection has been extended to the majority of QinetiQ sites 1 UK n a 7.61 4.66 5.32 4.73 and those managed on behalf of the MOD.
In QNA, recycling 1 QNA n a 1.57 1.09 2.12 1.85 programmes operate across much of the business.
General waste to landfill 2,472 1,911 1,924 1,230 926 tonnes Recycled waste tonnes 1,338 1,533 1,802 2,641 2,355 Environmental focus UK carbon management Percentage recycled 35% 45% 48% 68% 72% The UK Carbon Management Group promotes energy efficiency waste 1 and awareness, sets strategy and plans and monitors targets.
It is In previous years only data for major sites was reported.
This year reporting is for all sites where QinetiQ has control of the waste.
Additional waste streams are now incorporated, supported by a new network of Energy Champions across UK sites, including operational waste.
and the low-carbon message is reinforced during Environment Week, the annual employee awareness campaign.
We report Making a positive contribution to the community annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project and will be participating Science for society in the UK Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy In 2010, two UK employees visited Laos as part of QinetiQs Efficiency Scheme.
Gaining the Carbon Trust Standard demonstrates unexploded ordnance UXO Science for Society Programme, our commitment to energy efficiency.
which has been running for six years.
The team uses its expertise UK carbon to support local capability building to reduce the threat of UXO.
management data 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recently our QNA business provided specialist unmanned vehicle UK gas use GWH 69.6 68.6 66.8 64.7 63.0 equipment and associated training to aid in Japans Fukushima recovery efforts.
This enabled response teams to accomplish critical UK oil use GWH 22.5 21.4 21.7 20.6 20.3 and complex recovery tasks while remaining a safe distance from UK electricity use GWH 136.9 113.6 102.7 99.3 94.2 hazardous debris and other dangerous conditions.
Total CO from 92.4 79.3 73.2 70.7 67.6 2 1 Education outreach energy use Total CO from n a n a 26.0 19.8 16.6 For the fourth year running, QinetiQ UK collected an Award from 2 1 transport STEMNET, a UK national body leading all Science, Technology, 1 CO emissions are calculated using the defra 2010 greenhouse gas conversion factors.
Engineering and Maths STEM educational outreach.
Student 2 These factors change regularly, so to show actual reductions, the same factors have placements are provided through Year in Industry as well as been used for all years.
Consequently, there are some differences from the data reported last year.
Charity and community programmes Employees across the Group undertook a range of volunteering activities in the community.
Total charitable giving from the business across the Group was 196,900 see page 45.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25
