Environmental management Our operations and projects are located in remote areas where natural resources such as water are in limited supply and generally require on site power generation.
We share the natural environment with the local communities and accept the environmental responsibility this incurs.
Meeting the challenge of environmental management is good for business as it equates to operational efficiency which means minimising energy use, more efficient use of resources and improving our technology.
Our aim is to practise the highest standards of environmental management and performance and to limit our environmental footprint through the efficient use of natural resources, recycling of waste and by contributing to the conservation of biodiversity.
Our target is to have all current operations our approaCh We identify and assess the environmental issues that need to be managed using our certified to ISO 14001 baseline environmental impact assessments.
These pinpoint the likely environmental standards by 2012. impacts of our mines and inform our project planning, development and expansion.
All the likely negative and positive environmental impacts are also communicated to local communities at an early stage as part of our public participation programmes.
As projects develop we create and continually update an environmental management system EMS to mitigate these impacts, and any others that may manifest during the course of our operations.
TOTAL ENERGY USE TOTAL ENERGY USE TONNE MILLED Kwh t GhG EMISSIONS TONNE COe COe KTONNE MILLED 2 2 100 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 We are committed to transparency and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project each year.
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Number of Class 1 Number of Class 2 Number of Class 3 at 31 December major incidents medium incidents minor incidents Operational mines 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Morila 0 0 0 0 2 11 Loulo 0 0 8 3 99 55 Tongon 0 0 0 0 27 0 Gounkoto 0 0 0 0 0 0 Our approach is guided by the IFC Performance Standards on Class 3 Minor incident involving controlled or uncontrolled Social and Environmental Sustainability.
Two of our mines are release of effluent or pollutants within the boundary of the currently certified to the  ISO 14001 operation.
environment management standard and both the Tongon and Gounkoto mines are due to achieve accreditation in 2012.
In 2011 there was no Class 1 incident.
The majority of Class 2 and Class 3 incidents were reported at Loulo due to ongoing issues We categorise environmental incidents according to three levels with the tailings pipeline see page 103 and at Tongon which across all sites and aim to reduce these every year.
Our approach moved into operational phase this year.
Randgold received no is one of continuous improvement and includes a significant focus fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations on Class 3 minor incidents, as we have found they act as an early in 2011. warning system to avoid larger incidents.
We have also identified four areas that we consider the biggest environmental risks to the Energy and greenhouse gas emissions business: energy use, water management, land rehabilitation and our approaCh waste management.
Our approach and performance in managing Our business is sensitive to variations in energy price and supply, these four risks is explained in detail in this section.
which is why decreasing our energy consumption is a priority.
We integrate climate-change related issues into the business control our perforManCe framework and have published a five year strategy to reduce We measure three levels of environmental incidents at operational normalised greenhouse gas emissions.
Our strategy has set mines: a target to reduce all greenhouse gas intensity emissions both Class 1 Major incident resulting in death or injury of people those emissions directly caused by our productions and energy we or destruction of community property or husbandry.
Class 2 Medium incident involving material disruption to production or uncontrolled release of contaminated effluent Our site-specific strategies to achieve this reduction are to run the outside the boundary fence of the operation.
Tongon mine on grid power, Kibali to be operational with at least TOTAL FRESh wATER OFFTAKE mL TOTAL FRESh wATER OFFTAKE TONNE MILLED kL t DISTURbED AREAS hectares Figures relate to sites where Randgold has management control and are not based on a proportion of operations that the company owns equity share.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions occurring from sources that are controlled by the company, while Scope 2 emissions include emissions from the generation of purchased electricity.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 101 Environmental management continued EMISSION INTENSITY Tonne COe kt 2 ore milled 2011 2010 2009 Ore milled kt 11 131 7 867 7 250 Emission intensity 39.08 39.91 44.28 Q uality of CO or equivalent produced for every unit of a 2 thousand tonnes of ore mined.
TONGON CONNECTED TO ThE NATIONAL POwER GRID IN 2011 Our total unverified GHG emissions for 2011, defined as the sum of onsite emissions were 435 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 314 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent for 2010.
50% of power supplied by hydropower and Loulo to complete the The disclosure is currently undergoing independent verification capital programme and migration to more fuel efficient generating and final verified numbers will be presented in the 2012 Carbon machines.
Morila is powered by fossil fuel power generation and Disclosure Project.
The increase in total carbon emissions reflects was forecast to have ceased operations in 2013.
The decision to extend Morilas life beyond 2013 was made subsequent to the the growth of the company including the launch of operations setting of the five year strategy and is likely to have a significant at Gounkoto and increased tonnage production at Tongon in impact on this, given the relatively small number of mines in 2011.
This increase in total emissions has been tempered by a operation.
The above target will be updated in the 2012 CDP due continued decrease in emission intensity in 2011, in large part due in May 2012. to connecting the Tongon mine to the national grid, which is gas and hydropower supported.
These results are detailed in the table Our greenhouse gas GHG reduction strategy has two central above where emission intensity refers to the quantity of CO or 2 elements: greater use of energy efficiency measures and a move equivalent produced for every unit of a thousand tonnes of ore away from diesel generation to hydropower and grid power.
This year we reduced our rate to 39.08 tonnes of CO or 2 are also committed to transparency and participate in the Carbon equivalent per unit in 2011 from 44.28 tonnes per CO in 2009.
water our perforManCe our approaCh 2011 brought the Tongon mine in the Cte dIvoire into full Our water management policy is to maximise the use of recycled operation and we have been able to link this operation to the water for mining and processing and avoid or minimise adverse national grid which is gas and hydropower supported.
We are also impacts in relation to discharges in the water.
On our current well advanced in ensuring the Kibali project will be able to use river operations we have a three year target to return 80% of grey water hydropower schemes to meet 80% of energy requirements.
to our mine plants, and a five year target to return 85%.
We strive to meet IFC guidelines on effluent discharge and are currently We have also taken considerable steps to improve our energy constructing additional handling facilities at the Gara and Yalea efficiency.
Our energy use per tonne milled rose from 34.5kWh t in underground mines.
2010 to 34.8kWh t in 2011 due to the start of fresh ore processing by year end.
At Loulo mine, the transfer to more fuel efficient, We are committed to minimising seepage from tailings storage medium speed generators and other energy efficiency measures facilities TSF.
We outsource the management and construction of reduced our diesel usage per kilowatt generated by 5.5% from these facilities to a specialist company and employ an independent 2009.
Fuel efficiency has also been improved through better communication between the powerhouse and plant at Morila for consulting engineer to ensure they are monitored at an optimal level.
102 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 NzORO RIVER hYDROPOwER SOURCE FOR KIbALI We have site-specific policies and systems to manage the procurement, transport, storage, use and disposal of cyanide and CaSe Study: tailinGS ManaGeMent at loulo these are all implemented in accordance with the Cyanide Code Tailings material consists of ground rock and process of the respected International Cyanide Management Institute.
effluents that are generated in the processing plant.
The unrecoverable and uneconomic tailings are our perforManCe discharged as slurry, to a final engineering designed In 2011 we continued to focus on maximising the return of water storage area commonly known as a TSF.
Ensuring the from TSFs in an attempt to minimise the off-take of fresh water safe management of a TSF is an integral part of our from the environment.
All our operations withdraw fresh water environmental stewardship.
from adjacent river systems, from purpose built water storage At the Loulo mine in Mali, we decided to locate the TSF in dams or from dewatering of mining operations.
The amount of water we removed from the environment has increased this year a remote area away from the plant to ensure that it was a safe distance from the Falm River, which forms the due to the addition of the Tongon as well as Gounkoto operations international boundary with Senegal.
Risk assessments to our portfolio.
Water management plans are aimed at increasing conducted during feasibility highlighted any uncontrolled the reuse of water whenever we can, and to return it to the release into the river would be a major disaster.
Instead environment meeting regulatory limits.
we located the TSF 9 kilometres from the plant and constructed a HDPE pipeline within a containment trench Our freshwater withdrawal increased by 67% to 12 251 million to capture any leakage slurry across the terrain from the litres in 2011 and our water withdrawal per tonne milled from 0.93 mine to the TSF.
to 1.10kL tonne, due to the ramp-up at Tongon and increased throughput at Loulo and Morila.
Building an isolated TSF and connecting pipeline was the best option in terms of environmental risk management, The focus in 2012 will be to stabilise the new operations and however the ongoing maintenance of the pipe has implement water management systems aimed at maximising the introduced new challenges.
reuse of water from the TSFs.
Some of the gradients of the landscape proved too high for The table on the previous page indicates the water use and the joints of the HDPE pipeline and there were a number of discharge figures for 2011.
The operations are in the process of minor and medium risk spills during the year.
As a result redefining and standardising the water performance parameters.
a new steel pipeline has been laid to counter the problem.
Randgold will standardise the methodology used across all the operational mines to quantify their water use and impacts and to This steel pipeline will in turn suffer from higher wear and ensure that the approach is in accordance with current industry tear than the HDPE pipeline and so a new management best practice.
system to rotate at regular intervals in order to avoid the problem of uneven wear of the pipeline has been We are updating the detailed water balances for Tongon and introduced.
the expanded Loulo operation and plan to reprocess the tailings material at Morila and deposit it in the pit, thus simplifying the These issues are a good example of the companys current water balance at the mine.
willingness to invest resources in constant improvements and upgrading when it comes to environmental management.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 103 Environmental management continued LAND REhAbILITATION 2011 Total hectares Total hectares at 31 Dec rehabilitated disturbed Morila 51 1 013 Loulo 7 1 280 Tongon 6 2 451 Gounkoto - 446 Kibali - 434 total 64 5 624 Land rehabilitation our approaCh Mining companies have an unavoidably large footprint on the land There are no endangered species with habitats in areas affected on which they operate, however our aim is to contribute to the by our mines.
In 2011, the environmental impact assessments at conservation of biodiversity over the lifecycle of our mines and to Kibali discovered several aquatic species, including a type of puffer manage our landholdings effectively.
fish Petraodon sp, that has not been previously scientifically documented.
This, along with several other previously undescribed We manage this process by conducting baseline surveys at the species, will undergo the lengthy process of confirming they are feasibility stage and then taking an annual digital image of the mine indeed new and then named.
This has led to further work to using an Ikonos satellite.
successfully demonstrate that the species is not endangered by our activities.
More groups of this species have now been found This allows us to monitor changes in vegetation cover and measure elsewhere in the region and we are delighted to have played a part affected areas as a result of mining activities.
We use that information as part of a policy of constant rehabilitation waste management while the mine is operational, instead of leaving it until the mines We aim to recycle as much waste material as possible.
Unused roads, for example, can be removed and the mines have waste management plans that cover the sorting and land replanted while operations continue.
This also makes sound recycling of a range of materials.
Sorting of domestic and metal waste takes place at all mines and The information also informs closure plans, which are updated often involves small community-based enterprises which are able annually.
Financial provision for the restoration of indigenous to extract value from the waste generated.
Hydrocarbon waste vegetation is set aside and audited independently each year, or collection, primarily used oil, is outsourced to reputable service whenever a major change to the mine plan occurs.
providers who remove the material from the sites.
our perforManCe next StepS Morila is our most mature mine and mine life has been extended to Implementing our five year energy strategy remains a priority, with 2021 with the incorporation of tailings treatment.
Land rehabilitation a focus on realising a significant drop in our emissions intensity per of the open pit and mine waste dumps is already underway at the production tonne.
Further work on the Nzoro hydropower project Morila site with more than 51 hectares of land rehabilitated on the in the DRC will be a major part of this next year.
site this year and a further 44 hectares planned for 2012.
Water is an increasingly important issue for many of our All sites have a nursery growing indigenous trees, suitable for stakeholders and we aim to further improve reporting by joining replanting disturbed areas and local communities are encouraged the Water Disclosure Project in 2012.
We will strive to maximise to get involved by asking schools to plant saplings which we our use of grey water and reach our target of 85% grey water used provide.
More than 6 000 trees have been planted on the Morila in mining and processing over a three year period.
and Loulo sites alone this year.
Our mining concessions cover a total area of 315 900 hectares The recording and classification of waste generated has begun of which 5 624 hectares 1.78% have been disturbed and require and will result in better recycling opportunities.
