Occupational and community health Public health issues are critical in the African countries in which our major operations are based.
Taken together these four countries Mali, Cte dIvoire, DRC and Senegal have an average life expectancy of just 54 years and can be badly affected by diseases such as malaria, polio and hIV AIDS.
Such diseases do not stop at the fences of our projects and we therefore work to minimise health issues not only for our workforce but also for the wider communities in which most of them live.
Our workforce can also be exposed to occupational health issues such as high levels of dust or toxins and we view the task of minimising these exposures and providing a healthy workplace as integral to our pact with employees.
The benefits to our business of a healthy workforce, in the broadest sense, include reduced sickness leave, lower training and recruitment costs and improved productivity.
our approaCh Company clinics are Our group-wide occupational health policy identifies the potential health hazards that established at every are common to a gold mine such as dust, lead, cyanide and noise.
Our policy puts in place critical steps for each mine to avoid the occupational diseases that may result.
mine site and treat For example, to avoid saturnism from lead exposure each employee working in a lead 3 employees, employees process environment must undergo blood tests to ensure exposure limits of 1mg m over eight hours have not been surpassed.
dependents and Our assessments of safe exposure levels are based on internationally recognised people from the local monitoring standards, including OHSAS 18001.
To eliminate or minimise exposure to communities.
the hazards, we provide personal protective equipment and regular training and ensure that the materials and equipment to deal with traumatic, toxic and cardiovascular emergencies are in place and regularly checked.
All employees must pass minimum standards of fitness in order for their job to be performed safely.
Our policies on community health are framed by the independent baseline study of health issues that we commission at the feasibility stage of our projects.
This enables us to identify the most important local health issues, prioritise needs and then to measure our contribution.
It also ensures that no negative health trends already present before our arrival can be unjustly attributed to the company at a later date.
96 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 KIbALI CLINIC Company clinics are established at every mine site and treat and regularly tested as required by the Cyanide Code.
We have employees, employees dependants and people from the local had no health incidents related to cyanide this year.
Our medical staff work in partnership with the host Our clinics deal with both occupational and community health governments, the World Health Organisation and local NGOs on issues.
In 2011 more than 78 600 medical consultations were held a number of public health initiatives including inoculations against for workers and community members at our clinics.
The clinic diseases such as polio, yellow fever and tetanus.
We also run at Kibali treated more than 9 400 patients last year, while Loulo specific programmes to combat HIV AIDS and malaria which treated around 90 patients per day.
Around a quarter of cases were pose two of the main health risks to our workforce and local related to local villagers or employees dependants, reinforcing communities.
the important service we provide to the wider communities of our workforce.
We delivered inoculations against polio, tetanus All group medical officers measure and report against a and yellow fever and also offered our facilities and resources to standardised set of occupational and community health indicators.
allow UN agencies to carry out other vaccinations.
We have also We also collaborate with medical charities and local healthcare used mobile video units MVUs to help spread health education authorities to deliver crucial medical equipment and supplies to in an entertaining way and these have proved very popular at village clinics in these areas.
Morila more than 1 000 villagers attended MVU sessions during one quarter.
our perforManCe The main occupational health issues include the potential for high Fighting malaria and hIV AIDS levels of ambient dust in the air and poisons such as cyanide.
We have taken a series of measures to combat both HIV AIDS and We manage this by assessing the risks at each part of each site malaria.
and identifying the need for protective equipment or for exposure reduction measures such as wet screening to reduce dust levels Randgold has worked in Africa for over 15 years and has become near rock crushing equipment.
All potential cyanide hazards well acquainted with the difficulties of dealing with malaria.
For and risks are highlighted in a risk assessment at each site and example, we conduct an annual entomological survey at each site to determine the most effective insecticide to combat the disease.
personnel protective equipment, training and signage is available MALARIA INCIDENCE RATE Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 97 Occupational and community health continued 70% decrease HIV in prevalence rate among people who sign-up for voluntary testing at our mine clinics.
This year the survey showed a growing resistance by mosquitoes As with all our business efforts, Randgold sees partnership as a in some parts of West Africa to insecticides such as Deltamthrine vital part of implementing our health policy.
We have helped to import US$1.8 million worth of medical equipment in co-operation and so we plan to switch to Carbamate in areas such as Loulo with medical charities such as CURE to the Wasta Durba area of where malaria incidence rose this year see table on previous page.
the DRC, US$900 000 worth of medical equipment to Mali through This site specific information feeds into our daily efforts against the the charity Doc to Dock and a further US$1 million is being delivered disease including the distribution of impregnated mosquito nets to the Korhogo Mbengue area of the northern Cte dIvoire.
and repellents, anti-mosquito spraying in a number of agricultural areas and malaria education programmes at all our sites.
We also work closely with NGOs such as CIDA and the United Nations on their HIV AIDS prevention initiatives, making our mine To combat the spread of HIV AIDS we have distributed more than facilities, medical staff and transport available.
175 000 condoms to employees and their families this year as well as providing free and confidential HIV testing, and running next StepS educational programmes.
This year 887 employees and subOur health efforts face constant pressures and we will continue to contractor employees were tested for HIV on a voluntary basis at undertake the evaluations and care necessary to ensure a healthy our mine clinics.
An HIV prevalence rate of 1.14% was recorded workforce and an improving situation in the communities in which which compares favourably with the 3.76% recorded in 2012. they live.
The poor health levels in the DRC see facing page mean that mitigation of the health risks identified in our medical baseline There is some evidence that these measures are contributing to study will be a major task for the upcoming year.
The incidence rate of malaria has dropped significantly at Morila this year from 26.69% in 2010 to 20.9%.
Across several mines there will also be a renewed focus on dust The year under review also saw a downward trend in the reported management.
Reducing dust is an important challenge for many of our occupational health teams.
incidence of new HIV cases.
In the two mines where comparable data exists Loulo and Morila, only 12 new cases were reported We will also seek to develop further our partnerships with NGOs, compared to 33 in 2010, with zero new cases at Morila.
Although charities, national and international authorities to provide much we recognise every new infection may not be reported, taken needed health services and facilities in the areas surrounding together with the increase in voluntary testing, this does suggest a our mines.
For example, we will be assisting the USAID CURE positive downward trend in actual new infections.
Matching Fund Initiative in the DRC by making all the arrangements and hosting their trip into northeastern DRC to assess the Malaria is a bigger problem in the eastern DRC than in West Africa requirements of the hospitals and clinics in towns of Bunia, Isiro as it has a significantly longer wet season nine months than the and Watsa and the surrounding areas.
During 2012 we aim to four to five month wet season in the latter.
Kibali which is currently facilitate the delivery of another US$2 million worth of medical an early stage construction project had a malaria incidence rate equipment to the northeastern DRC in conjunction with CURE and of 113.15 in 2011 and has started the implementation of malaria USAID.
control measures with assistance from Professor Hunt and the Malaria Control Group at the University of the Witwatersrand in We are also currently discussing research with the University South Africa.
The established mines are better set up to combat of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg on the effectiveness of malaria than mine development sites and new mines.
Tongon impregnating bricks with mosquito repellent.
If successful was a construction site for most of 2010 whilst Gounkoto was in this could be rolled into resettlement activity as well as already established communities.
887 EMPLOYEES SIGNED UP FOR VOLUNTARY hIV TESTING IN 2011 98 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 KIbALI CLINIC buildinG on a baSeline: health iSSueS in the as a major issue: 91% of water samples taken during the ConGo baseline health study tested positive for faecal coliform contamination.
The DRC is slowly recovering from decades of decline and conflict and remains embroiled in conflict as we write.
Despite By establishing a robust baseline of the key health risks in the huge mineral resources, it is one of the poorest countries communities surrounding our projects, we have been able to in the world with a gross national income per head of just form a plan to improve the situation, and will be in a position US$280, less than countries such as Equatorial Guinea and to measure the success of these efforts over time.
Education and health care services are very poor in project plans are aligned with the IFC Mining and Performance comparison to most other countries.
It has a high prevalence Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, as well of HIV AIDS and a life expectancy of just 48.4 years.
as the values and standards of shareholder companies.
Helping to improve health levels around our project in Kibali, Based on these findings Randgold has created a community a joint venture with AngloGold Ashanti and DRC State-owned health management plan that minimises the key risks to the firm Sokimo, is a vital part of Randgolds business approach.
business from these health factors.
As the project develops we As a first step, we commissioned independent experts will roll this plan out across the project site and the surrounding NewFields to undertake a baseline health survey of the area area.
Upgrading medical facilities and the provision of medical affected by the Kibali project.
The survey was completed in supplies to the local community are likely to be an increasing August 2010. priority as the mine gets out of the starting blocks.
We have already been working with CURE to help get medical supplies It found that malaria, waterborne diseases, malnutrition, into the area.
anaemia and sexually transmitted diseases were the main health risks that affect communities in the project area.
In We are also developing a monitoring and evaluation programme particular, malaria is regarded as highly endemic with mean so that the health impacts can be tracked and assessed for prevalence rates above 81%.
Poor water quality also emerged their effectiveness.
