Loulo-Gounkoto Mine Complex continued gOUnkOTO Health, safety and the environment Five LTIs were recorded during the year which regrettably included lOUlO two fatal injuries.
In March, a contractor died when he lost control The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR was 2.29 against 1.36 for the previous year.
Management has implemented increased of his motor vehicle between the Millenium Highway and Gounkoto, safety awareness programmes across the mine to counter this and in August, the hauling supervisor was caught in a flash flood negative trend.
The Lost Time Injury Severity Rate decreased and drowned in the vicinity of the Sassamba bridge.
The LTIFR significantly from 116.33 days lost per million hours in 2010 to was 2.41 and the Fatal Injury Frequency Rate was 0.97.
58.04 in 2011 thanks to a fatality free operation.
One million hours LTI free events were achieved twice during the year.
The mine is in the process of implementing an OHSAS 18001 compliant occupational health and safety management system The NOSA 5 star system was implemented during the year with the intention of obtaining accreditation in 2013. and merged with the overall occupational health and safety management system.
This was designed in accordance with During the year, Gounkotos Environment and Social Impact OHSAS 18001: 2007 requirements and will be audited during 2012 Assessment report was approved and its environmental permit for OHSAS 18001 certification.
Membership of the committee was delivered by the Minister of the Environment.
An environmental of health and safety, a joint management and labour body, was management programme EMP was designed to address all renewed during the year and meetings were held on a quarterly significant environmental issues.
This EMP is part of the overall basis.
environmental management system EMS which is currently As for community health, 6 930 medical consultations were being implemented.
The mine intends to assess its EMS against provided, while first aid, evacuation, family planning, HIV AIDS ISO 14001 during 2012. counselling and voluntary testing free of charge were ongoing at the staff village dispensary.
In addition, a widened immunisation Community programme was carried out in association with the Kenieba health lOUlO centre.
Malaria represented 5.43% of medical cases and following The community development committee met on a monthly basis an entomological survey, the malaria programme is being reviewed.
throughout the year with the objective to assist in establishing and maintaining a healthy relationship between the mine, the residents The mine retained its environmental management system of the surrounding villages and other local stakeholders.
Public certification to ISO 14001: 2004 following the surveillance audit participation processes were completed to update members of the by National Quality Assurance in December 2011.
A legal compliance audit was also successfully conducted by the National local community on the mining operations in the area and future Environmental Department.
developments planned by the mine.
THE LOULO COMMUNITY HIV AIDS PROGRAMME HAS LED TO A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE BEING TESTED 32 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
