human capital: A people-centred strategy we are determined to encourage a motivated, competent and productive workforce and see the provision of a healthy and safe workplace as a top priority.
We believe that local people are our key resource.
By prioritising recruitment from those communities affected by our mines we gain an effective and good value workforce, encourage succession planning, reduce skills shortages and build positive links with those communities.
our approaCh Our human resources management framework is designed to provide a workforce that has the skills, flexibility and diversity to meet the companys current and future business needs in West and Central Africa.
Our policy is to recruit Our policy is to recruit local people and then to develop their potential through local people and then to learning opportunities and effective performance management.
The process for each develop their potential employee starts with psychometric testing during the recruitment process and is then through learning constantly measured and managed through regular performance assessments.
Our human resources operational teams at each site ensure that all people management opportunities and issues are dealt with effectively and in accordance with company policies.
effective performance Our recruitment policy prioritises local community members and host country citizens management.
and if the required skills are not locally available, we seek to fill positions from elsewhere within Africa if possible.
our perforManCe Staff levels increased in 2011, reflecting the increase of activity at the Loulo and Kibali sites.
By the end of 2011, the Randgold group employed a total of 1 406 operational staff see table alongside.
Of these, 92% were nationals ie employees from the country of operation.
Among senior positions, 75% are occupied by nationals.
90 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 Our entire operational workforce are members of trade unions.
As part of an ongoing assessment of staffing needs at the Morila Training and education: how we develop and Loulo mines, 79 employees were let go this year.
All attempts people were made to relocate these employees to other operations.
our approaCh We work in remote areas where access to formal education and induStrial relationS experience of industry is often limited.
As our emphasis is on the Our belief in real partnership means we welcome the role of unions recruitment of local people who are affected by our operations, and representative committees at all our operations.
We believe this means that we have to do a lot more training than many of this strengthens our pact with labour.
Our entire operational our competitors who do not operate in such remote areas.
Our workforce 100% are members of trade unions and local mine training and development strategies are therefore vital and have shop stewards are present in quarterly board meetings and regular to be unique to prepare all employees for both their current and management meetings.
At the outset we select people to work with us by using a variety of selection tools, including a learning ability battery This year we have given particular focus to improving to assess the learning ability of illiterate job seekers.
communications with unions and this has shown positive results on the operations where meetings with representative bodies were For new mines being developed, training at the outset consists held on a scheduled and systematic basis.
This involves employees of new mines moving to an existing mine for a period to learn the ropes from The industrial relations climate at all our operations was calm this experienced operators.
This shadow skills training is reinforced year with no strikes or lock-outs exceeding one weeks duration.
In on the trainees own mine during commissioning, when the trainee 2011, two days of industrial action occurred at Tongon where the receives coaching from trained operators who come from an union embarked on an illegal stay-away in spite of all national and existing mine, to do this follow-up training, prior to the start-up of regional labour authorities opposing the strike action.
Supervisory, technical and management training and slowly returned to work during the strike action as greater numbers became aware of the illegality of their actions.
Other reportable development are delivered by a mixture of action learning, ie onincidents in 2011 include three strikes among sub-contractors at the-job structured training and formal training courses held both Kibali and a two-hour stoppage at Loulo.
GROUP EMPLOYEES AND SUb-CONTRACTORS People working Group staff for sub-contractors at 31 December 2011 Expats Nationals Expats Nationals Total Gounkoto 2 10 2 1 053 1 067 Morila 13 311 7 358 689 Loulo 68 453 169 2 055 2 745 Tongon 28 382 47 1 108 1 565 Kibali 16 123 20 1 585 1 744 total operationS 127 1 279 245 6 159 7 810 Corporate, capital and exploration 43 285 - - 328 total 170 1 564 245 6 159 8 138 Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 91 human capital: A people-centred strategy continued We are also working with partners to help establish the African School of Mines in Bamako.
World class specialists are often used to assist the company with technical problems.
When these specialists are on site we ask them to also undertake training for our technical staff as part of their time commitments.
Finally, we have specialist training consultants based at every mine site.
Every employee can have a say in the training and development gaps they perceive they have.
Their opinions on this are captured as part of the annual performance appraisal exercise.
We sponsor major development courses through a series of scholarships and other funding mechanisms appropriate to the development being undertaken.
traininG: in ConverSation Good operational performance depends on the talent and our perforManCe competencies of our local workforce.
Abdoulaye Kone, Randgold practises a culture of constant learning and we an employee based at the Morila mine in Mali, offers his encourage both our semi-skilled and skilled employees to perspective on Randgolds training and education policies.
engage in formal and informal training whenever possible.
This is a fundamental part of our approach to managing our workforce Q: How long have you been with Randgold and what is and because the majority of our workforce is undergoing training your current role?
aK: I have been with the company since it started.
My and development of some sort at any one time, it makes total levels first job was as a labourer at the Syama mine in southern of training difficult to quantify.
Mali and I have been working my way up, becoming plant manager at Morila in September 2010 where Im now We manage numerous formal training interventions across all our responsible for over a hundred people.
These include cyanide safety, hazardous substances, first aid, metallurgy processes, community development, Q: What sort of training has the company provided?
engineering maintenance, electrical and mechanical practice, aK: Back in 1989 I was tested for my ability to learn air conditioner repair, occupational health, computer literacy, which as a former teacher I performed well on and every supervision, electrical competency, union capacity-building and year since then we have performance appraisals and a business understanding for employee representatives.
This gives me an opportunity to train in those areas where I may be weak.
Beyond this, the formal training courses were attended by 421 employees in 2011. company has funded several major career development courses for me including a one-year management training As part of our commitment to local skills development over the course based in South Africa, where I was awarded an long term we are also working with partners to help establish the advanced qualification in Intermediate Management African School of Mines ASM, based in Bamako, the capital of Development by the University of Stellenbosch.
The facility will help train West and Sub-Saharan African undertaken several courses in safety, project management students in the technical skills needed to satisfy the increasingly and metallurgy.
The company has covered the cost but high-skills demands of the mining industry in Africa.
As part of you need to commit a lot of your spare time which can be our wider commitment to raising educational standards in the a sacrifice.
countries where we operate we also regularly invite lecturers and Q: How would you sum up the training policies?
students from local universities and technical colleges onto the aK: If youre willing to do well then everything is here for mine sites for study purposes.
you to train yourself and become foreman, supervisor and so on.
It is down to you to take decisions and not wait to be told what to do all the time to achieve your targets.
My first major promotion was becoming a gold room supervisor in 1991.
This came about because the guy who was supposed to be involved in the gold pour the process of turning molten gold into solid bars could not do it after six months and I was able to take the opportunity to impress and then be trained for the role.
92 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 We are committed to providing the safest possible working environment for our employees and have a goal to operate a serious-injury and fatality-free business.
Safety: Our responsibility to employees our approaCh Safety is a key business risk and a priority for all our operations.
Our goal is to operate a serious-injury and fatality-free business and we are committed to providing the safest possible working environment for our employees.
Our health and safety policies are the same for both contractors and our employees.
This year, we have linked safety performance to remuneration policies at the highest level.
In 2011, a 10% target in reducing the LTIFR was set and, again in 2012, a further 10% reduction is targeted.
The heart of our safety policy is personal responsibility.
We believe that all individuals must take ownership and accountability for creating a safe environment and not leave it to a safety officer.
Employees are also free to refuse to do something without reprimand if they think its unsafe and are encouraged to challenge supervisors or middle managers on safety issues.
Each worker ThE hEART OF OUR SAFETY POLICY IS PERSONAL RESPONSIbILITY also undergoes health and safety training modules, such as induction and cyanide training and has a toolbox safety briefing Despite all of our efforts, we did not achieve our goal of being a every morning.
serious-injury and fatality-free business in 2011.
Tragically, three employees lost their lives in workplace incidents: Batieba Doumbia, We use OHSAS 18001, the occupational health and safety Gountoko hauling supervisor: Salif Sawadogo, a Gounkoto management standards, as a guide for health and safety practices at our operations.
Our Morila mine is compliant with OHSAS 18001, contractor: and Yeo Siriki, a contractor at the Tongon mine.
and we aim to have Tongon and Loulo certified as OHSAS 18001 compliant in 2012 and all our currently active mines compliant by We understand that fatalities can be described by statistics but 2013. cannot be understood by statistics, and we pass our condolences on to the families involved.
Any fatality is unacceptable and we our perforManCe investigate each incident fully, report to the board and undertake We recognise that maintaining high safety standards and delivering remedial actions to improve safety systems.
Two of the fatalities on our safety goals is hugely challenging.
All phases of a mine, occurred on transportation routes outside of the mine while the whether it be design, construction, operations or closure, present third occurred when Mr Siriki drowned in a dewatering sump.
challenges and high safety performance can only be achieved Following this accident the safety committee on the mine has through a constant focus on improving management systems enforced the procedure for obtaining water from such dewatering and controls, learning from those accidents and incidents that do holes and placed a rope and a safety float that employees must occur, and ensuring that all employees take personal responsibility wear when loading their water carts.
for their safety and that of their colleagues.
OPERATIONAL SAFETY PERFORMANCE OVERVIEw for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Total number of active mines or projects on which figures are based 4 3 Total number of employees and contractor staff 6 728 6 155 Total fatalities 3 1 Total Lost Time injuries 19 27 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR 1.29 1.75 Operations include Loulo, Morila and Tongon for 2010 and these plus Gounkoto in 2011.
Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties that mean the person is unable to perform those duties for at least one day.
LTIFR: Number of lost time injuries per million man-hours worked.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 93 human capital: A people-centred strategy continued In addition to the three fatalities, we also had 19 LTIs across the groups operations these are incidents where the individual reCoGnition for Safety involved is unable to perform his or her duties for at least one day.
In March 2011 our Morila mine won the prestigious BID Quality Award in Geneva.
This international award The groups operational safety data is presented in a table on the for quality recognises levels of customer satisfaction, previous page.
Given the year-to-year increase in the number of leadership, strategic planning and benchmarking as operational mines and the corresponding increase in the number established in the international QC100 TQM system.
of employees, we are pleased with our progress towards our safety goals.
We are encouraged by the dramatic decrease Morila also received certification for the internationallyin the number of shifts lost to injuries from 2010 to 2011 at the recognised OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety Tongon mine and with Morila mines major achievement of zero standard this year.
The increase in the LTI number at Loulo is disappointing, and will be an area of focus in 2012.
Management has implemented increased safety awareness programmes across Morilas award was given in a year when, for the first time in the Loulo operation to counter the negative trend.
The increase in its history it achieved no LTIs, that is no person was injured construction activity and workers at the Kibali project resulted in a in the execution of their duties to the extent that they were rise in LTIs year on year.
However, here too the LTIFR decreased then unable to perform those duties.
from 2010 to 2011 and as the year progressed a concerted safety drive led to an improvement in the safety statistics.
This result is based on a number of factors that included promoting a culture of personal accountability for safety, In 2011, Randgold incurred no safety fines or prosecutions.
daily toolbox briefings and an emphasis on safety training as the role of the mine changed.
Morila is now winding next StepS down production, although we have extended its life The development of talent will remain an integral part of all our beyond its original closure date, and most activity has operations, and particular focus will be given to the Kibali and moved over ground.
This makes the safety risks different Gountoko projects in 2012 as they move towards their next phase and additional measures have been brought in to raise of development in the coming year.
awareness of the potential new risks.
For example, a two day internal workshop was held in 2011 to identify potential Work to make all currently operational mines compliant with OHSAS 18001 by 2013 will be a priority for next year.
We will also causes of vehicle accidents and we introduced a new look to apply the OHSAS standard to future mines.
induction programme which included a video on safety.
At site level, we will focus particularly on Gounkoto where two Both Morila and Loulo have received safety awards and fatalities occurred in 2011 and on reducing the number of serious commendations from Iinstitut National fide Prevention near miss incidents across the board.
Social INPS which is Malis national institution for social security.
MORILA CELEbRATES A LOST TIME INJURY FREE 2011 94 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 proMotinG Gender eQuality: MovinG ahead Morila including its supply chain manager and engineering Randgold practices a non-discrimination policy, as stipulated planner and telecoms technician, 13 female employees at Kibali in the respective establishment agreements signed with trade and 72 at Tongon, including the mine mechanical engineer as unions on our operations.
We strive to recruit and retain the well as three plant operators.
At a corporate level a number of best people and draw on talent from the populations of the senior positions are occupied by female employees including countries in which we operate.
the group GM corporate communications, the group financial manager and group business assurance manager.
We recognise that gender is a factor in recruiting a diverse and representative workforce and we measure the number We are determined to help drive up this number and in 2012 of female employees in the workforce.
This is a particularly will continue to give priority to recruiting female employees with challenging area due to a number of cultural trends that suitable skills.
discourage women from applying for jobs in our countries of operation.
Mining is also a traditionally male dominated In order to help influence some of the entrenched cultural industry.
trends within many of our countries of operation we also hope to use our wider community engagement to raise awareness In total, just six per cent of our permanent workforce is female.
of the positive benefits of women taking jobs in areas such as This includes a total of 14 permanent female employees at metallurgy, engineering or supervisory roles.
