Economic development: Growing together continued We do not see human rights as a passive responsibility, we take positive steps to ensure our projects do not infringe on the enjoyment of rights in our areas of impact.
extended families and agricultural land was completed in 2011.
It is Randgolds policy not to arm any security forces on our mines.
Relocations were focused around new hamlets located where Instead, we agree legally binding contracts with the relevant good farmland was available.
local authorities that take into account the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and aim to ensure safety and security for any The Kibali RAP is the companys biggest to date involving up to military or policing matters.
We also include a human rights clause 17 000 people from more than 3 600 households.
The two largest in our agreements with all suppliers.
This binds them to comply villages have now been successfully relocated.
June 2011 saw the with Randgolds ethics and our zero tolerance anti-bribery policy.
official opening of the new Kokiza resettlement, which will include It also puts a legal duty on the supplier to ensure there is no child over 4 000 brick houses, 20 schools, police stations, clinics, new or forced labour within the supply chain.
gardens and several churches including a large Roman Catholic Church.
However, we recognise that in areas of weak governance, legal compliance based approaches cannot always guarantee that At Gounkoto, we have completed the resettlement of all affected companies are fulfilling their responsibility to respect the full households and all affected farmers have been satisfactorily framework of fundamental rights.
We therefore also provide compensated.
This includes the resettlement of Faraba village relevant staff, including security personnel, with appropriate cultural eight households and the resettlement of the chief of Sansamba and human rights training and guidance and where possible invite and his extended family to Sakola, with their full co-operation.
relevant agencies of the United Nations to conduct training.
human rights We also work with partners in both the local and international If a mining project infringes on peoples human rights it can face community to raise awareness and education levels concerning real financial, reputational and in some cases legal risks.
overall objective is to uphold fundamental human rights wherever we do business.
Operating with respect for human rights is a our perforManCe particularly relevant consideration in post-conflict zones, such as Although our mines are located in relatively stable locations within the DRC and Cte dIvoire, where there is a greater exposure to each country, the fundamental protection of human rights for our human rights risks.
employees and the communities in which we operate remains a challenge.
our approaCh We recognise our responsibility to respect human rights by The DRC remains an active conflict zone where the Lords essentially doing no harm to the individuals and groups within the Resistance Army and other militia operate and we have therefore sphere of impact of our mines.
We do not see this as a passive fixed detailed and binding human rights agreements with the responsibility, we recognise that it requires us to take positive regional governor in the Haute Orientele area where the project steps to ensure our projects do not infringe on the enjoyment of is situated.
rights in our areas of impact.
This year security guards at the Kibali gold project as well as the We identify any potential human rights issues at an early stage Tongon, Morila and Loulo mines received training from the human as part of the ESIA that we carry out on all projects.
As projects rights and child protection officers of either MONUC, the United develop we then put in place management structures to mitigate Nations Organization Mission in the DRC or ONUCI, the UN those risks.
2011 RAP Numbers of Number of people expenditure people resettled to be resettled at 31 December 2011 US$ in 2011 in 2012 Combined total 41 million 2 290 15 580 440 households 3 116 households This applies to the five major mines of Tongon, Loulo, Morila, Gounkoto and Kibali and includes both physical and economic resettlement.
RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY 88 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 RANDGOLD hAS FORMED ALLIANCES wITh NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANISATIONS TO MAXIMISE ITS NUMEROUS SUSTAINAbLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Plans have been prepared for the remainder of the security we have extended its life beyond its original closure date, the mine is winding down production and our detailed closure plan, including personnel in the group to receive human rights training in 2012. a strategy for agribusiness, needs to be implemented to ensure we From 2012, human rights appreciation training will be incorporated reduce the impact of mine closure on the local economy.
into induction training for all employees.
We also have planned steps to improve our reporting on issues such next StepS as human rights and resettlement.
In particular, the management We are proud of the real partnerships we have built up with all of human rights is an issue that we expect to attract increasing our local communities, but we understand that our license to attention.
Our policies and operational management of this issue operate is not indefinite.
It is important that we are constantly and are currently site specific and while this has been very effective on consistently active on the ground to ensure that we incorporate the ground, we recognise that we need to bolster these efforts.
community feedback and expectations into both our business In 2012, we will undertake work to establish a more structured planning and day-to-day activities at our mines.
This involves company wide human rights policy and control system.
This will resolving all outstanding grievances alongside any future ones.
include consideration of extending the formal embedding of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights into our security In the coming year, we face particular challenges with two mines management practices in West Africa and also the consideration of at very different stages of their life.
As construction at the Kibali the guiding principles on business and human rights formulated by site continues, the increased building activity makes ongoing the UN Secretary Generals Special Representative on Business and Human Rights, Professor John Ruggie.
communication with all local stakeholders vital.
At Morila, although RANDGOLDS MAIN SUPPLIER OF hYDROCARbONS IS bEN & CO hOLDINGS, whICh hAS bECOME ONE OF ThE bIGGEST FUEL DELIVERY bUSINESSES IN wEST AFRICA Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 89
