Tongon Gold Mine continued rate of transfer chutes and bins as a result of conveying transitional mines demand was supplied from the national grid power which material.
Most of these issues were successfully addressed by became the primary source of electrical power to the mine on the end of the year, with the second hard rock crushing circuit and 10 December 2011. sulphide float circuits being commissioned in the fourth quarter.
All 20 of the power plant generators, including the automatic Gold recovery was 91.2% and 250 390 ounces of gold were synchronisation, have been fully commissioned as a standalone back-up plant.
The power plants online efficiencies as a standby produced.
unit were 0.256L kWh and US$0.30 kWh respectively.
engineering Overall mill availability for the year was 78.8%.
A gradual increase Health, safety and the environment was achieved from 56.2% in January to an above-plan 92.3% by The mine continued to focus on the health and safety of the end of the second quarter.
Plant availability decreased again the workforce as well as the protection of the environment.
during the third quarter to 78.8% mainly as a result of feeding softer Management intensified safety education and the induction of oxide ore through the system during the wet season.
Modifications all employees and contractors with more than 2 500 personnel were carried out in the relevant process sections to facilitate ease having been inducted and registered.
The outcome has been a of tonnage throughput and improve the efficiency of key process significant decrease in the Minor Injury Frequency Rate from 52 in circuits.
February to eight in December.
Unfortunately, a fatality occurred in January when a pit dewatering operator fell into a water sump and During the fourth quarter the overall availability continued to be drowned.
Safety procedures in this regard have been reinforced.
hampered by a significant number of belt cuts and tears from handling transitional ore.
In November the failure of the No1 Mill The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR decreased to 0.19 in barring gearbox contributed to further availability limitations.
No Lost Time Injuries LTI occurred gearbox was replaced by one of Randgolds strategic spares and over 355 consecutive working days.
Several audit and risk the ore transfer problems were resolved, ending the year on a assessments have been conducted for the implementation of the positive availability trend.
OHSAS 18001 system which is expected to be completed in 2012.
POWeR The ISO 14001 system certification, initially targeted for completion The power plants mechanical and electrical availability for 2011 in December 2011, has been rescheduled for June 2012.
The total energy produced by external consultants Digby Wells and Associates have been the plant for the year was 96.7MWh, constituting 92.3% of the retained to assist in drafting and implementing an environmental total power demand of 104.3MWh for 2011.
The balance of the management system.
TONGON PLANT 44 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
