Economic development: Growing together continued We are frequently the major catalysts behind some vital infrastructure projects in the countries where we operate.
access to sources of energy after years of armed conflict and civil We work with communities by supporting and participating in the development of elected local community development committees.
unrest that made such access impossible.
We provide the funding and resourcing for these committees which allocate money to community development projects within We are now investing US$165 million to develop the 20MW a strategic framework set by our sustainable development filter Nzoro hydropower station adjacent to the Kibali River and other see details on page 79.
Committee budgets are approved at new power stations in the wider region.
Taken together these mining company board level and these funds are entirely separate developments will provide both a sustainable source of power for from payments to governments, such as the Patent social tax, our mining activities as well as helping local agencies to provide a resettlement related compensation or medical care through our safe and reliable electricity supply for the local community.
They are also complemented by charity fundraising events initiated by our employees and joint ventures with charitable bodies Forging a pact with communities such as the medical charities Doc to Dock and CURE.
Our mines cannot operate without the goodwill of the communities in which they are based.
Given the frequent lack of development artisanal and small-scale mining and the complex social and political environments in which we As a mining company, we are sensitive to the potential for community operate, community relations are probably the single biggest risk issues to appear due to tension between our operations and factor we face.
We strive to both minimise negative impacts on artisanal and small-scale miners ASM.
To mitigate the business communities and to make the most of the economic and social risks from alienating the ASM community the company invests in benefits that our presence brings.
creating alternative available livelihood activities such as agriculture.
We also seek to build effective co-habitation partnerships with our approaCh legal ASMs based on work close to, but not on, our permits.
This Our policy is to maximise local economic development by has been particularly relevant this year to the Gounkoto and Kibali empowering local communities and to act with the highest areas.
Randgold always tries to find effective ways to manage the artisanal mining issue in compliance with national laws and best ethical standards when managing issues such as grievances or resettlement requirements.
practice guidelines such as the IFC Guidelines.
a road More travelled The upgrading of roads is a usual consequence of our operations and this has been the case in Southern Mali, Western Mali, Northern Cte dIvoire and the DRC.
For example, the network of roads in the region surrounding the Kibali project in the DRC is generally poor, consisting entirely of unmaintained gravel roads.
As part of the Kibali project, Randgold has funded and managed the upgrade of the main access route between the towns of Doko and Aru on the Ugandan border.
The Doko-Aru road is particularly significant as it links Kibali with international ports.
A journey that used to take around five days now takes approximately four hours.
The upgraded road is having a highly positive economic impact: it has reduced the cost of transporting food and other essentials to the northeastern DRC, halved living costs and increased the availability of public transport.
The new road serves as the primary land transport route for equipment and supplies to and from the Kibali project.
Its upgrade has also benefited the many weekly markets located throughout the project area, which have seen a considerable rise in the influx and trade of a variety of goods.
The road is now considered a national public route and the ongoing maintenance of the road will largely be the responsibility of the DRC government.
84 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 our perforManCe Our total spend on community development and related projects more than tripled this year to a total of US$18.6 million attributable portion.
This came from our community development budgets, advantageous infrastructural development for the community and philanthropy.
Some of the many individual projects supported by these funds in 2011 include the construction of a school in the Massawa area of Senegal, the creation of a market gardening programme for women in Cte dIvoire and the drilling of water boreholes for a number worKinG with loCal CoMMunitieS of organisations in Mali.
At more mature mines, All our community activity is carried out with respect for the cultures, such as Morila, emphasis has shifted towards customs, values and heritage of local communities, including indigenous local economic development schemes such as peoples.
At the exploration stage, the exploration teams consider social agriculture projects.
At the pre-construction construction stage in In Sitikily, near the Loulo mine, we have also our projects we ask the communities to select representatives for a local funded an initiative with USAID that enables one community liaison committee CLC.
A public participation process PPP of their governance committees to work with the is launched and the CLC members are also taken on a visit to an operating local mayor to ensure that as much as possible of mine, so they get a deep understanding of our proposed project.
The the patent tax paid by the mine is returned to the CLC assists us with local recruitment of construction employees, our local community.
communications and other actions around our projects.
When the project becomes a mine a new election is held and the CLC, changes its name Ongoing work at all our mines includes analysis and focus to the community development committee CDC.
The CDC on the feasibility of agribusiness.
In particular prioritises community development projects and decides how its own we encourage each mine to form alliances with budget will be spent.
agricultural entrepreneurs and businesses to train local farmers to produce agricultural products.
The local farmers then sell their produce to a Members of a local community committee may include local authority central co-operative set-up on or close to our leaders, village-level traditional leaders, representatives and delegates from mines locations.
When set up the owners of women, youth and hunter associations alongside company representatives.
the co-operative include the mine, the joint Our general manager: human capital attends two community committee venture partners from formal agribusinesses and meetings on each mine each year.
Our CEO also holds mass meetings and entrepreneurs.
The farmers, who supply the takes every opportunity that presents itself to interact with communities, to agribusiness with produce such as honey, underline our commitment to the local community and to hear feedback chicken, eggs and vegetables will inherit the directly.
mining companys share of the co-operative as part of our closure plan.
The agribusiness also Randgold provides a sustainable development filter to help guide the has the aim of increasing non-mine employment CDC in selecting and prioritising projects.
This has the dual purpose of opportunities during the operation of the mine.
bringing projects in line with industry, national and international guidelines and focusing them around five main priorities: improving basic health, improving basic education, establishing food security, improving access to a potable water supply and creating non-mining employment opportunities.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 85 Economic development: Growing together continued poSt-ConfliCt rebuildinG in tonGon US$160 000 on new projects.
Projects taken forward by the The Tongon mine is located in the north of Cte dlvoire, committee this year include: 55 kilometres south of the border with Mali.
It started New classrooms for the Katonon and Kationron operations in 2010, coinciding with the 50th anniversary of communities.
Rehabilitation of the Mbengue secondary school laboratory building.
Up to 30 000 people live in the eight villages which are Contributions towards the Mbengue health clinic, directly affected by the Tongon mine and since 2008 three including an electricity generator.
representatives from each village have joined officers from Supplying hand pumps and repairing water pumps in a town councils and others on a local committee to manage number of areas.
community development in the area.
According to director A market gardening project aimed at women in all the of community action at Tongon Denise Ngom, the creation of local villages.
the community liaison committee in 2008 was an important factor in building trust between the local community and the The latter project includes training women and men in farming company.
Mr Ngom said, At first people in Mbengue and methods and providing them with materials such as seeds and Diawala districts didnt believe theyd see any real benefits fertiliser to grow crops including tomatoes, rice and onions.
Now their minds are changing.
They The project links with our larger strategy to ensure a viable feel positive towards the mine and they want to work together agribusiness economy is in place to provide non-mine and with the company and the committee to build more schools, sustainable employment opportunities during and after the clinics and new farms.
A further US$500 000 has been committed by Randgold for this project.
This sustainable employment Cte dlvoire is still recovering from a full-scale civil war.
creation and food security scheme also requires partnering Although most of the fighting ended in 2004 the country with local entrepreneurs and farmers and the initiation of a has remained tense and there were violent skirmishes at the microlending scheme.
start of 2011 following disputed elections.
The committee has helped to maintain peaceful and constructive community A lack of jobs for youth is a priority identified by all the villages relations at Tongon throughout this transitional period and has on the committee.
It is a problem made worse by high levels helped contribute to a brighter future by funding the repair of of illiteracy.
The committee has therefore focused a number infrastructure damaged during the war including bridges and of projects on basic education, including the rebuilt school administrative buildings in Mbengue.
laboratory and invested in new businesses including farmland and chicken farming.
A dam has also been constructed near This year the local committee has been responsible for the mine which can be used to irrigate the farms during the dry distributing a community development budget of around season long after the mine has closed.
PRESENTING LOCAL wOMENS COLLECTIVES NEAR TONGON wITh SEEDS, FERTILISER, INSECTICIDE AND GARDEN IMPLEMENTS 86 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
