Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 30 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 31 Corporate Responsibility review Redrows ethos of Quality with Responsibility is always % 25 improvement in our central to our business and this year is no exception.
We have continued to demonstrate our commitment to this principle waste diverted from landfill throughout the year with commendable improvements in our performance.
This is evident in a number of key areas and in the since 2008. proactive involvement of senior staff with policy makers and industry bodies active in the increasingly complex framework of regulation within which we have to work.
We anticipate a further 4% saving is achievable over the next 12 months.
Health and Safety Our emphasis on the prime importance of all Health and Safety matters throughout the business has once again been % Site Waste Diverted from Landfill recognised with the award of our second consecutive RoSPA Gold Medal Award for Occupational Health and Safety, following 100 receipt of a Gold Award for our submission for the sixth year 95 running by RoSPA's independent adjudication panel.
This follows 90 Bronze and Silver Awards in 2004 and 2005, respectively.
85 90% 80 86% In awarding Redrow this most prestigious 75 % Health and Safety award, David Rawlins, 70 74% 65 RoSPAs award manager said RoSPA 60 firmly believes that organisations that 65% 55 have demonstrated their commitment to 50 continuous improvement in accident and 2008 2009 2010 2011 ill health prevention deserve recognition.
Redrow has shown that it is committed to striving for such continuous improvement and we are delighted to honour it through the presentation of an award.
As part of the Major Home Builder Group skills initiative with CITB Construction Skills, Redrow expects all our subcontractors working onsite to hold the relevant CSCS Construction Skills Certification Scheme card.
Similarly, all appropriate employees within Redrow are required to obtain their job related CSCS card.
We are pleased to report that as of April 2011, 99.9% of persons on Redrow sites including relevant employees have a CSCS card.
Environmental Commitment Waste Management The Governments Strategy for Sustainable Construction June 2008 and Progress Report September 2009 set a target of 50% reduction by 2012 of waste sent to landfill by the construction industry, resulting from construction, demolition and excavation waste, compared to 2008.
With the assistance of our waste management partner, Reconomy Solutions, we continue to refine our waste management systems, throughout the construction process and have succeeded in increasing our recycling rate by 25% since 2008.
Our emphasis for the future is to focus on improving the efficiency of the worst offending trades and on designing out Bob Sayers, Redrows Health & Safety Director with the RoSPA Gold Medal Award Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 32 Harrows capabilities are highlighted at Hauxton, Cambridge.
Brownfield Reclamation District Council, Cambridgeshire County Council, The In October 2009, Redrow acquired Harrow Estates and a strong Environment Agency, The Health Protection Agency and NHS management team, expert in the purchasing, remediating and Cambridgeshire.
Since commencement of the remediation to date, the works Harrows capabilities are exemplified by two sites at Hauxton, have generated some impressive statistics.
Cambridge and Horsforth, Leeds where the team are currently co-ordinating extensive remediation works.
n 60,200 Man-Hours have been worked on site n 86,000 cubic metres of soil has been excavated, processed The site at Hauxton was formerly occupied by an Agrochemical and put into soil treatment Manufacturing Plant covering approximately 20 acres within an overall 80 acre landholding.
n 30,000 cubic metres of soil has been treated and stockpiled ready for reinstatement The site has planning consent for a mixed use scheme of residential and some commercial use and is designated as a n 85,000,000 litres of contaminated groundwater enough to Special Site under Part 2A of the Environmental Protection Act fill 34 Olympic Swimming Pools has been treated on site at 1990 as it is considered to pose a potential significant risk to the bespoke treatment facility controlled waters due to the nature of the contamination.
Since March 2010 remediation has been taking place which is n 2,400 soil samples have been analysed scheduled to be completed later this year.
n Environmental Engineers have assessed environmental The process has required engagement with local residents, the conditions 630 times taking over 5,000 PID PhotoParish Council, The Local Ward Councillor, South Cambridgeshire Ionisation Device readings Hauxton site, Cambridge, undergoing an extensive program of remediation works About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 33 Horsforth, Leeds n 363 twenty four hour air samples have been collected for on the environment and climate, thats why weve committed to analysis voluntarily report our carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2007. n 130 twenty eight day samples have been collected from around the site and within the community for analysis Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, generated by the consumption of n The professionalism and sensitivity demonstrated in this gas, electricity and fuel oil in the course of our business has project exemplify the strength and depth within Redrow to reduced by more than 35% since 2005-2006.
Although many deal with challenging environmental issues.
factors influence this outcome, including the major impact of the recent recession, the result should be read against an Horsforth formerly accommodated a dye and pharmaceutical increase in production of 22% between 2009-10 and 2008-09 manufacturing facility and comprises 48 acres.
The site is and we did achieve a reduction in Scope 1 emissions of 23% currently in the planning process for residential end use and is against a target of 10% in that period.
The figures therefore do nearing the completion of a nine month asbestos removal reflect the cumulative effects of a number of initiatives such as contract.
To date, some 214 tonnes of asbestos and asbestos the installation of energy saving lighting at St Davids Park, our contaminated material has been removed from the site under environmentally aware company car fleet policy, which focuses fully controlled conditions to a specialist disposal facility.
on more fuel efficient models including Blue Motion from Carbon Footprinting Volkswagen and Ecoflex from Vauxhall and our encouragement We understand our responsibility to ensure that we play our to use video conferencing facilities, or if this is not possible, the part in minimising the impact of our business and our products use of trains.
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 34 WWF Forestry Trade Network A Case in Point As a member of WWFs World Wildlife Fund Global Forest and The diagram below illustrates our progress from our initial Trade Network WWF GFTN in the UK since 2003, Redrow is membership in 2003 to 2010. committed to progressively sourcing forest products from well managed sources.
To monitor our progress, we collect as much information on our supply chain sources as possible, and categorise this to enable us to identify where any risks of poor Usage of Timber WWF GFTN categories sourcing may lie, and to eliminate them systematically from our supply chain into the UK market.
n Legal origin confirmed or credibly certified The new EU Regulation to limit the trade in illegal timber, which 100 comes into full effect on 3rd March 2013 provides a baseline of legality as a minimum for forest goods entering the European 80 market and reaching consumers.
Our business wants to make sure that we are playing our part in reducing the UK footprint on 60 global forest resources, and to source sustainably.
To highlight % the change we have achieved so far, to draw attention to the 40 challenges that remain in order to meet the EU regulation, and to exceed the requirements of the regulation by sourcing 20 sustainably and identify our priorities in doing so, we are publishing the status of our supply chain for forest goods as we have established it so far, according to the WWF GFTN 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 categorisation of forest goods.
In 2010, our timber usage by WWF GFTN classification was:- We hope our decision to be transparent about our performance n 0.83% No information on origin on forest sourcing will prompt others in the sector to do the same, and initiate discussion about how business can overcome n 0.45% Known origin but no legality verification possible the remaining challenges in partnership with other stakeholders, n 40.13% Legal origin confirmed including e. g. PEFC including Government.
purchased with Chain of Custody We encourage all forest certification systems to continuously n 0.0% In the process of becoming credibly certified improve their performance in delivering responsible forest n 58.36% Credibly Certified e. g. FSC purchased with Chain management.
At present, WWF GFTN participants believe FSC of Custody represents the gold standard and a credible benchmark for other forest certification schemes to match, and it remains our n 0.23% Pre-consumer Recycled preference to increasingly source from credibly certified forests n 0.0% Post-consumer Recycled or verified recycled sources.
"98.49% of the timber products used on our sites was classified within Category 3 ""Licensed Source"", up to Category 5 ""Credibly Certified""."
Our performance in this specific sector has been previously recognised in the NextGeneration Climate Change Benchmarking analysis as being one of the best in our sector.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 35 % 6.7 To further reduce our Scope 2 emissions, an initiative has been In the calendar year ending launched this year to install 100% low energy lighting in all our marketing suites.
% 2010, 98.49 of timber products used on our sites was Scope 1 and Scope 2 Carbon Emissions classified Licensed Source - Tonnes per annum DEFRA Definitions Credibly Certified by WWF.
15,000 Customers 10,000 The homebuilding industry introduced the Consumer Code for Home Builders in April 2010 to improve effective delivery of service to our customers.
The Code is supported by the major warranty providers, such as NHBC who require all their registered builders to adopt and comply with the Code as a 5,000 condition of their registration.
N A The Code ensures that Home Buyers: 0 n are treated fairly: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 n know what service levels to expect: n are given reliable information upon which to make their Note: no data collated for 2008 decisions: n know how to access speedy, low-cost dispute resolution arrangements if they are dissatisfied.
Sustainable Supply Chain To ensure ethical and sustainable continuity throughout our Redrow has welcomed the Consumer Code which underpins our business and to maintain quality, we seek to trade only with efforts to deliver a top quality product and top quality service to partners who share our commitment and values.
We ensure that our customers are fully aware of similarly high standards of performance in every aspect of their its requirements via dvd, hard copy or electronic format.
businesses including health and safety and ethical sourcing of materials and associated transport and delivery.
Our attention to detail and our willingness to listen to our customers has clearly paid off.
In this years sixth HBF national Policy and Regulation survey of homebuyers, covering the 12 month period from Regulatory policy and legislation impacting upon environmental October 2009 to September 2010, Redrow achieved the top and sustainability issues has been a fast moving area for several rating of five stars from our customers: one of only two major years and is likely to continue to be so against a changing homebuilders to do so.
political arena and the backdrop of the Governments climate change policies.
Senior Redrow staff engage proactively at high The five star rating means that over 90% of our customers were level with a number of industry working parties and satisfied with the quality of their new Redrow home and would organisations involved in shaping and steering the direction of recommend us to a friend.
short, medium and long term policies which will affect the homebuilding industry.
Involvement includes organisations such This achievement is a reflection upon our product, the quality of as the Home Builders Federation Sustainability Group, NHBC, our build and the level of service we provide.
Continuing to the NHBC Foundation, the Modern Masonry Alliance Futures maintain and improve customer service levels remains a top Group, the Zero Carbon Hub, NextGeneration and numerous priority for Redrow.
Tonnes Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 36 Community We currently have 24 sites registered with the scheme and in 2009-2010 our average site score was 30.9, where 25-30 points Communication with the communities local to our represents a good site that is considerate and 31 35 points developments and consideration of their needs is an important represents a very good site.
and continuous process, integral to our philosophy, which extends for the lifetime of a project.
Working with the Community Redrow plays an active part in charitable enterprises all around We recognise the importance of minimising the inconvenience the UK.
Much of this effort involves under privileged children in we cause to our neighbours during construction and with this in the community or those with profound disabilities.
Two of many mind, we engage with the Considerate Constructors Scheme, a typical examples are presented by our South West and South not for profit organisation which seeks to improve the image of Wales Divisions.
The South Wales Division has recently been involved in a Compliance with the Schemes Site Code of Considerate number of fund raising initiatives in support of The Joshua Practice indicates that a site is achieving a standard beyond Foundation TJF, a Cardiff based national charity, created in statutory requirements.
In each of the eight sections of the September 1998 to provide holidays and experiences all around Code, it is possible to score between 1 and 5 points, with 3 the world for children aged up to 19 with terminal cancer and indicating compliance.
Half points may also be awarded in any their families.
Sites are not only assessed for compliance with the Schemes Code, but also to identify any measures being Individual experiences range from family holidays, to taken by a site which are above and beyond these requirements.
opportunities to meet favourite movie, sports and pop stars.
Where relevant and practical, the report may indicate where TJF also prides itself on the provision of high quality group improvements can be made.
events which have become a TJF specialty.
A development registered on the Considerate Constructors Scheme Customer Service levels remain our top priority Sophie Harris prepares breakfast for the workforce at our Three Oaks development, Aberdare About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 37 To raise funds for the charity, local beauty queen, Sophie Harris convey important lessons to children in staying safe near from Aberdare took time out to prepare breakfast for Redrow construction sites.
During Busters visits children are taught builders at the Three Oaks site, Aberdare and all the Miss Wales about the hazards on a building site and about the importance finalists including, Miss Caerphilly, Lauren Williams: Miss of health and safety equipment in a fun and engaging way.
Newport, Sophie Smith: Miss Rhonda Cynon Taff, Sophie Moulds: Miss Swansea, Bianca Cridland: Miss Torfaen, Zoe Ryan took part Primary schools in Altrincham, Selby, Halifax, Grimsby and Cwm in a pamper party for the children and their mums at Redrows Calon were amongst those visited.
The boys werent left out: the families of two of the Foundations children were treated to slap up meals before going behind the scenes and enjoying VIP seats at Cardiff City FCs fixture with Queens Park Rangers.
Employees at Redrows South West Division raised 23,000 through a series of events including a golf day, annual dinner dance, car wash, five a side football tournament, casual clothes days, staff socials and the three peak challenge to save the after school club at St Nicholas School from closure.
Redrow staff have pledged continued support for the school for children and young people, aged 4 to 19, who have severe, complex or profound and multiple learning disabilities.
We also work with local schools and Redrows health and safety mascot, Buster Bear continues to visit schools across the UK to 21 employees from the South West Division took up the Three Peaks Challenge Children from Broadheath Primary School, Altrincham with Redrows health Pamper party held for The Joshua Foundation at our Cwm Calon development, South Wales and safety mascot Buster Bear
