Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 29 Corporate responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report is an integral part of our Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
This section highlights key achievements relative to our 2011 corporate responsibility objectives.
You can read the full 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report at reporting.
indd 29 08 03 2012 08:58 BUSINESS REVIEW 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility 1.
Our unique contributions Corporate responsibility ensures We focus on areas where we can make a positive impact on society good management of risks and through our knowledge, resources and skills.
This includes universal sustainable access to information, advance of science opportunities, helps us attract and health, promotion of the rule of law and justice, and protection of society.
and retain the best people, and Elsevier, the worlds largest scientific publisher, plays an strengthens our corporate important role in advancing human welfare and economic progress through its science and health information which spurs reputation.
It means performing knowledge and enables critical decision making.
To ensure access to this information, Elsevier supports key programmes in places to the highest commercial and where resources are often scarce.
Among them is Research4Life, in partnership with United Nations agencies and other publishers, ethical standards and channelling which provides core and cutting-edge scientific information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
In 2011, we our knowledge and strengths, made available all content on ScienceDirect encompassing around 2,000 peer-reviewed journals and 15,000 books and made another as global leaders in our industries, 950 health science books available.
In the year, there were over threemillion Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
to make a difference to society.
In addition to support for ongoing projects, the Elsevier Foundation committed $650,000 through its Innovative Libraries Constant engagement with stakeholders, including shareholders, in Developing Countries programme to support , communities, governments, and members of civil building and access to primary source material through grants to society, helps us determine material corporate responsibility libraries like Tanzanias Sokoine National Agricultural Library and issues.
The Reed Elsevier Boards, senior management, the National University of Laos.
Other Foundation grants focused and the Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding on supporting nurse faculties and helping earlyto mid-career objectives and monitor performance against them.
women scientists balance family responsibilities with their academic careers.
During the year, at the request of the US Secretary of State, Elsevier chaired a State Department session We concentrate on the unique contributions we make as a on promoting women in science in the developing world and business and on good management of the material areas that participated in meetings of the UN Commission on the Status affect all companies encompassing: of Women.
Our unique contributions LexisNexis Risk Solutions tools and resources help protect society.
Governance It supports non-profit organisations such as the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children NCMEC and the Cal Ripken Sr. 3.
People Foundation, in addition to a number of large youth development 4.
Since 2007, LexisNexis has completed more than 5.4 million volunteer background checks for such organisations, 5.
Community identifying over 475,000 individuals with at least one criminal 6.
Supply chain conviction attempting to gain employment or to volunteer with a non-profit organisation, including over 1,021 registered sex 7.
Employees helped create the ADAM programme which assists in the safe recovery of missing children.
In partnership with NCMEC, ADAM distributes missing child posters to police, news media, schools, businesses, medical centres, and other recipients within a specific geographic search area.
Since launching in 2000, 126 children have been located.
Through the year, LexisNexis Risk Solutions helped spread information on the importance of volunteer background screening.
indd 30 08 03 2012 07:45 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 31 Image UNI82296: UNICEF NYHQ2010-0452 Cullen Case study Reed Elsevier supported the 2011 UNICEF report, Childrens countries were aware that changes in their environment Vulnerability to Climate Change and Disaster Impacts in were already present.
Many stated that climate change East Asia and the Pacific, with access to product, experts, has affected their families livelihoods and, in some cases, editorial assistance, and funding.
caused parents to take them out of school to help collect water and fuel and supplement household income.
In Millions of children across East Asia and the Pacific already Mongolia, children noted harsher winters and declining suffer from a lack of access to clean water and proper water resources and in the Philippines children spoke of sanitation, and are vulnerable to food shocks and risks of heavier rainy periods.
The report showed that climate change will likely worsen this situation.
The report cites evidence showing that when children are educated, informed and involved, they share information The UNICEF report presents an analysis of the climate with others in their communities and are better able to change trends and potential impacts on children in East prepare and protect themselves.
According to Anupama Asia and the Pacific, based on findings from country studies Rao Singh, UNICEF Regional Director for East Asia and the in Indonesia, Mongolia, the Philippines and Kiribati and Pacific, Now is the time to put in place adaptation strategies Vanuatu in the Pacific, as well as childrens perspectives that ensure that the risks specific to children are addressed.
on climate change and other research.
By doing this, we will go some way in helping to build a While the report suggests that the impacts of climate climate-resilient world for children.
change vary from country to country, children in all 57096 SAS p030-038.
indd 31 08 03 2012 07:45 BUSINESS REVIEW 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes justice through its The winner of the $50,000 first prize was the Tagore-SenGupta products and services.
Its Rule of Law Resource Center is a free Foundation for a project to install 12 community-level arsenic online community covering topics like human rights, protecting removal units in remote villages and schools in Cambodia where minority communities, and anti-human trafficking.
During the arsenic groundwater contamination is rife.
The arsenic removal year, as lead sponsor of the World Justice Project, LexisNexis units use regenerable adsorbents and do not require electricity or contributed to the Projects Rule of Law Index, a quantitative costly maintenance: the technology will provide local employment assessment tool ranking 66 countries, and supported the Asia in the construction and installation of units and in the caretaking Pacific Rule of Law Conference in Kuala Lumpur.
LexisNexis phase of the project.
Second prize of $25,000 was awarded to chaired the human trafficking panel at the International Bar Jenna Forsyth, whose project focuses on low-resource chlorine Association International Conference, helped advance the generation to address unsafe drinking water and poor sanitation in Business Coalition Against Human Trafficking, and was primary the Nyanza province of western Kenya, one of the poorest regions sponsor of the UK film premiere Not My Life, a documentary filmed in the country.
In partnership with the Program for Appropriate on five continents highlighting the wide-scale nature of the Technology in Health, the school-based pilot involves a prototype problem: in conjunction with the premier, LexisNexis introduced chlorine generator using salt, water and battery power to a handbook on human trafficking.
During the year, LexisNexis generate chlorine for water disinfection.
On a single battery South Africa provided pro bono assistance to governments across charge, the device can run for 200 cycles, generating 40,000 litres Africa by updating and publishing the laws law reports of Kenya, of clean water.
Both projects were featured in the Elsevier journal Nigeria, Malawi, Ghana, Mauritius and Swaziland, to facilitate Water Research.
The 2012 Environmental Challenge was transparency in the administration of justice and law enforcement.
Reed Exhibitions trade shows provide platforms for supporting 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress our corporate responsibility focus areas.
At the 2011 World Travel Complete RE Environmental Winners announced and Market, its global event for the travel industry, Reed Exhibitions Challenge: launch plans highlighted at World marked World Responsible Tourism Day with the Responsible for 2012 Water Week reception Tourism Awards, recognising sector initiatives in areas like in Stockholm: 2012 poverty reduction, low carbon transport and technology, and Environmental Challenge conservation.
Over the last eight years, Reed Exhibitions has launched in November given free space at the London Book Fair to Book Aid International, Undertake UNICEF project on Supported publication of which annually provides over 500,000 books including those the impact of climate change Childrens Vulnerability to donated from across Reed Elsevier to readers in the developing on children Climate Change: profiled in world, enabling the charity to engage with a wide range of potential key publications including book and financial donors.
The Lancet and LexisNexis Reed Business Information RBI uses the power of its brands to Environment and Climate aid communities.
Variety, the leading entertainment industry news Change Center source published by RBI, has established initiatives like the Power Further expansion of Enabled access to all of Youth to spur young entertainers to support philanthropic and Research4Life ScienceDirect content, humanitarian causes, and to encourage their fans to do so as well.
encompassing 9.5 million Since its inception in 2007, Power of Youth has raised more than articles chapters: addition $1million to aid children: in 2011 beneficiaries included St. Jude of relevant legal material Childrens Research Hospital, Share Our Strength, and Alexs from LexisNexis Lemonade Stand, a charity which fights childhood cancer, begun 2012 OBjECtIVES by the child of a former Elsevier employee who lost her battle with the disease in 2004.
In conjunction with the Power of Youth, Expand alternative energy product portfolio Variety released its annual Youth Impact Report demonstrating Facilitate deeper country analysis of UNICEF climate the impact young people make in the industry and in their change and children report communities.
Variety has built on the Power of Youth model with Broaden reach of Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge the Power of Women and the Power of Comedy, highlighting how Increase pro bono partnerships celebrity can be used to beneficial effect.
Drawing on expertise across Reed Elsevier, in 2011 we awarded prizes in the first Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge to projects that improve sustainable access to water where it is presently at risk.
We made relevant products available from our businesses to over 100 registrants from more than 50 countries.
indd 32 08 03 2012 07:45 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 33 2.
People The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Code is Our 30,500 people are our strength.
Our workforce is 54% female disseminated to every employee setting the standard for our and 46% male, with an average length of service of 8 years.
Encompassing topics such as The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement fair competition, anti-bribery, and human rights, it encourages articulates our commitment to a diverse workforce and open and principled behaviour.
Over 99% of current employees environment that respects individuals and their contributions, completed online Code training by the close of 2011.
In addition, regardless of their gender, race, or other characteristics.
In 2011, 99% of employees in English speaking countries completed a data we made progress on our D&I strategy, including by identifying privacy and security course and 5,000 employees completed one senior champion from each of our business units to serve online training on fair competition with more employees on a D&I Advisory Group.
They are supported by our wider D&I scheduled for both courses in 2012.
In the year, all US managers Working Group, which met throughout the year to share internal completed anti-harassment training.
We are committed to best practice and hear from experts on topics like unconscious ensuring full compliance with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act, bias and creating a D&I culture.
We encourage affinity groups, and 99% of all employees completed anti-bribery training in 2011. like womens forums, which provide support and mentoring and As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC encourage community involvement.
businesses must align their governance and operations with ten The Reed Elsevier Nominations Committee considers the principles related to human rights, labour, environment and knowledge, experience and background of individual Board anti-corruption we demonstrated leadership in 2011 by serving directors.
In the year, in line with the recommendations of the UK on the Advisory Group for the United Kingdom, the UNGC Supply Davies Review, the Committee announced a 2013 target of 30% Chain Advisory Group, and CEO Water Mandate Steering women on the Reed Elsevier NV Combined Board and 22% women Committee.
In the year, we shared best practice in a European on the Reed Elsevier PLC Board.
local networks guide, provided video content on the UNGC for lawyers, and held webinars on the UNGC for our suppliers and Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace for members of the UK network.
as outlined in the Reed Elsevier Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate on areas of greatest risk, for example, warehouses, 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress events and exhibitions.
However, as a primarily office based Code of Ethics and Business 99% completion achieved company, our key impact areas are stress, slips trips and falls.
Conduct course completion by To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, 95% of all employees we conduct risk assessments, and work with a third party in the Full alignment with Adequate Alignment activities US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex or severe Procedures Guidance under included risk assessments, claim.
We achieved a 35% reduction in the severity rate since 2008. the UK Bribery Act: 95% intermediary due diligence, In the year, Ernst & Young benchmarked our health and safety completion of anti-bribery and internal reviews by performance against organisations in our sector and others.
training by relevant employees internal audit: training We are seen as a strong performer in 13 of 19 criteria, however in higher risk roles and completed by 99% of all there were a number of areas where we can strengthen activities, geographies employees globally including by advancing our reporting on wellbeing performance Implementation of updated US policy and retention and its benefits to the business which we will address in the records management policy schedule issued, along with year ahead.
online policy review and Through a new US where we have our largest concentration of certification process for employees programme, REACH, we promoted workplace employees wellbeing through health screenings, online assessments, stress awareness training, and weight loss and smoking cessation 2012 OBjECtIVES programmes.
We also introduced financial incentives for Completion of Code training by 100% of employees within participation in such activities.
90 days of their employment start date Continue bribery law compliance activities, with particular reference to the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Records Management Policy roll out to the UK and other countries 57096 SAS p030-038.
indd 33 08 03 2012 07:45 BUSINESS REVIEW 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 4.
Customers In 2011, we surveyed more than 250,000 customers through Net Promoter Score measuring customer loyalty and business dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen understanding of their needs and drives forward a customer centric culture across Reed Elsevier.
Results, reviewed by the CEO and senior managers and communicated to staff, illuminate where we are doing well and where we must do better.
To aid colleagues who work with customers, we launched a webinar series, CR as a Sales Tool, to help them articulate our commitment to CR and the benefits it provides to our business such as reducing our risk and strengthening our corporate reputation.
We aim to expand this with an online resource, the CR Sales Academy, in 2012.
In the year, the Reed Elsevier Editorial Policy was updated to We expanded our annual re:fit2win global competition in 2011, indicate the importance of making a clear distinction between fact adding swimming to the existing categories of walking, cycling and opinion and user-generated or other content.
It also states and running.
Winning teams received $1,000 for the charity of their that we encourage dialogue on our content, including through choice.
84 teams took part across Reed Elsevier and ran, walked, social media.
cycled and swam a total of 60,016 miles 96,586 kilometres.
We are committed to improving access to our products and 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
In 2011, Begin implementation of D&I Advisory Group we reviewed key products including ScienceDirect, SciVal Experts, diversity and inclusion D&I formed: review of providers SciVerse Hub, and MC Strategies Learning Management Software.
strategy in key locations for manager training pilot To review accessibility issues around Elseviers Article of the and online course for all Future, we set up a multi-university working group which met employees: review of regularly in the year to ensure new and advanced article pages group recruitment policies: would be accessible to all, including disabled users who rely communicated with on assistive technologies like screen readers.
The Accessibility senior leaders to share Working Group held educational webinars with disabled users D&I strategy and accessibility experts, and helped develop a new Elsevier-wide Accessibility Policy.
The Working Group also produced RE New and improved people New people section on Accessibility Matters to share accessibility information with sections of external and www.
com and staff across the group.
In the year, Elseviers Global Books Digital internal websites revamp of content for new Archive fulfilled 3,726 disability requests, about 40% through global intranet launching AccessText.
org, a service we helped establish.
in 2012 Benchmark health and safety Sector review by Ernst & 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress performance Young completed by Launch CR webinars on Introduced CR as Sales year end non-financial performance to Tool webinars covering Extend preventive care New REACH programme support customer-facing staff the full range of Reed programmes launched with 50 wellbeing Elseviers non-financial coordinators across US: performance expanded workstation Consult on Reed Elsevier Policy updated following assessments in UK through Editorial Policy review by editorial staff and Complywise sector benchmarking Assess accessibility of key Reviews of ScienceDirect, 2012 OBjECtIVES product websites SciVal Experts, SciVerse Undertake global employee opinion survey Hub, MC Strategies LMS platform Initiate diversity and inclusion training pilot Capture and report on wellbeing performance and 2012 OBjECtIVES its benefits Roll out updated Editorial Policy Develop CR Sales Academy Develop Reed Elsevier accessibility policy 57096 SAS p030-038.
indd 34 08 03 2012 07:45 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 35 Case study In 2010, Reed Elsevier launched a global fundraising Plan and its local partners have also helped the drive to raise funds for Plan Internationals Because Im a Girl communities and parents support childrens school campaign, helping disadvantaged girls in India gain attendance and monitor the quality of the education they educational opportunities and awareness of their legal and receive.
The results so far include over 600 girls and boys employment rights.
By the close of 2011, nearly $70,000 enrolled in early child care and development centres, and had been raised through staff fundraising and 95% of children eligible for primary school enrolled.
than 750 women and adolescent girls are now aware of the government-sponsored centres available to them and The Because Im a Girl project in the urban slums of Delhi 409 community leaders have received training on the addresses critical issues impeding education for children, importance of educating girls.
Plan estimates nearly 5,000 particularly girls.
A key goal has been to create child friendly more girls will benefit in 2012, helping address issues that schools that are inclusive, healthy, and protective for all continue to affect their attendance at school, such as poor children, and where children, families, and communities sanitation facilities and sexual harassment.
The project has focused on building the capacity of teachers, headmasters, and other government An educated girl can take her decision appropriately.
officials and creating a supportive environment that will She can handle family in a better way.
She can also become help to achieve better school retention rates and improve economically independent and oppose violence.
To date, the project has covered Comment from Neetu, a womens group member.
three schools and seven child development centres.
indd 35 08 03 2012 07:45 BUSINESS REVIEW 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 5.
Supply chain Reed Elsevier Cares, our global community programme, We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for promotes education for disadvantaged young people aligned ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to with our unique contributions as a business, and allows staff up to all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour two days off per year for their own community work.
We donated and the environment.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier 2.4 million in cash including through matching gifts and the SRS database, we tracked 457 critical, preferred, and strategic equivalent of 7.9 million in products, services, and staff time suppliers, and those we deem high risk according to criteria from in 2011. the Corporate Executive Boards Global Country Analysis Support Tool, human trafficking data from the US State Department, and An international network of more than 150 RE Cares Champions rankings in the Environmental Performance Index EPI produced engage colleagues throughout the year in activities such as the by Yale University and Columbia University.
The tracking list RE Cares Challenge, which rewards business sponsored changes year on year based on the number of suppliers we do community engagement.
business with who meet the required criteria.
We started 2011 Each September we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our with 37% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list as signatories to the community activities and in 2011 launched a global RE Cares Day Supplier Code and reached 64% by year end.
We have embedded which involved nearly 4,000 staff in local community projects.
signing the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing tool as one of the Among these was a science publishing day which Elsevier Chennai criteria for doing business with us and have an additional 1,700 hosted for children in their final year of study at the St. Louis signed codes.
School for the Deaf and Blind.
Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 41 external During the month we held our annual global book drive yielding audits of high risk suppliers, with four deferred and completed in nearly 2,500 books for local and developing world readers, and January 2012.
Any incidence of Supplier Code non-compliance announced the winners of the first ever Recognising Those Who identified in the audit process triggers a corrective action plan Care Awards to highlight the contributions to RE Cares of eight with supplier remediation required on all issues.
Individual winners from each of Reed To engage suppliers on key issues, we introduced a Socially Elseviers business units took part in a Habitat for Humanity Responsible Supplier Academy covering the audit process, project in Honduras, led by Y. S. Chi, Reed Elseviers head of environmental management, diversity and inclusion, community Corporate Affairs.
The winning teams were from Elsevier San engagement, and the UN Global Compact, among other topics.
Diego, LexisNexis Australia, Reed Exhibitions Norwalk, and RBI UK who won cash prizes to donate to their chosen charities.
2011 OBjECtIVES Progress 75% of key suppliers as Reached 292 or 64%: 1,701 After the devastating earthquake and tsunami in Japan on Supplier Code of Conduct other Code signatories 11March 2011, we acted quickly to ensure the safety and signatories well-being of our staff in the country.
Employees across Reed Elsevier also responded, contributing more than $200,000 in 45 external audits of high risk 41 external audits completed: employee fundraising and matching gifts across the company to suppliers four deferred to and support relief efforts.
We also provided access to our expertise.
completed in January 2012 For example, Elsevier provided medical professionals responding Introduce Socially Responsible Held 24 classes on 11 topics to the crisis with free access to MD Consult and First Consult, Supplier Academy allowing them to search Elsevier content at the point of care, with online access via the First Consult iPhone iPad app.
In addition, 2012 OBjECtIVES Reed Business Informations Bankers' Almanac helped banking 75% of key suppliers as Supplier Code of Conduct clients publish alternative contact details for staff that relocated signatories in the aftermath of the earthquake.
50 external audits of high risk suppliers 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress Broaden Socially Responsible Supplier Academy Launch RE Cares recognition Launched Recognising awards Those Who Care Awards programme with senior management participation 2012 OBjECtIVES 25% of employees volunteering through RE Cares Reach 10,000 disadvantaged young people through volunteering, in-kind and cash donations 57096 SAS p030-038.
indd 36 08 03 2012 07:45 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 37 7.
Environment 2011 OBjECtIVES Progress Undertake data centre Conducted study at major In 2011, we held extensive consultations with stakeholders to efficiency study US data centre review our environmental targets.
Our updated targets reflect our performance and key issues and can be found along with full 20% of electricity from Achieved 23% environmental performance details in the 2011 Corporate renewables or offsets Responsibility Report at reporting.
com cr11 Establish Green Team First module, Why it Environmental Training Matters, introduced We worked with IBM on a data centre efficiency study at one of Academy our major US data centres in Ohio to identify opportunities for environmental and financial improvements.
We have developed 2012 OBjECtIVES an implementation plan and are rolling out findings to other data centres across the business.
Launch updated environmental targets 25% of electricity from renewable energy or offsets Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green Teams, and engagement through networks such as Publishers 50% of key locations to achieve five or more RE Database for Responsible Ethical Paper Sourcing, inform Environmental Standards management plans to address our environmental impact.
Among them is the Reed Elsevier Environmental Standards programme, which sets benchmark performance levels and inspires green competition among offices.
In 2011, 40 sites 31% of key locations achieved five or more standards attaining green status.
Reed Elseviers Chief Financial Officer sent an email to all staff recognising these locations on World Environment Day and also identified Green Heroes across the company who were nominated by their peers for their environmental efforts.
In the year, we invited children of known to staff to submit their ideas for solving environmental challenges which resulted in an online publication, Our Childrens Environment.
We have a positive environmental impact through our environmental publications and services which spread good practice, encourage debate, and aid researchers and decision makers.
The most recent results from independent Market Analysis System show our share of citations in environmental science represented 33% of the total market, and 67% in energy and fuels.
KEy PERfORmaNCE INdICatORS 2011 Intensity achievement Absolute achievement 2011 Intensity figure 1 Target to date to date Absolute figure Absolute revenue m 2 CO emissions 2006-2015 -10% -19% 8% 182,186 tCO e 30.36 2 2 Total energy 2008-2015 -5% 1% 13% 269,626 MWh 44.93 Travel emissions 2008-2015 -5% -23% -13% 35,451 tCO e 5.91 2 3 Water 2008-2015 -10% -8% 3% 456,795 m 76.11 Waste recycled 2015 70% n a 66% 7,559 t 1.26 1 The percentage variance between absolute performance divided by revenue in 2011 compared with absolute performance divided by revenue in start year.
2 Gross CO e emissions Scopes 1, 2 and Scope 3 business travel.
indd 37 08 03 2012 07:45 BUSINESS REVIEW 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We achieved the following recognition in 2011: Gold Ethical Funds recognition Included in Leadership Index Scored in top 15% of companies Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Included Sector leader Sustainability Awards finalist VBDO Supply Chain Award Retained in Goldman Sachs Sustain fund of Triodos Bank Sustainable Equity best managed companies around the globe Bond Fund, first in publishing sector that will succeed on a sustainable basis THE FULL 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IS AVAILABLE AT REPORtING.
