28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY To effectively manage the social and environmental factors affecting the business and, in turn, their impact on its reputation and profitability, the Company has a formal CSR management structure to provide a better focus for the Groups activities.
The Assistant Chief Executive, Ben Taylor, has the responsibility to manage all aspects of the Companys CSR activities.
corporate socIal responsIbIlIty Highlights Engineering for Britain Group Business Code introduced which sets out principles of Renishaw has throughout its history encouraged young talent business conduct and standards which all group companies and we were especially proud that this year, Roxanne Pollard are expected to follow.
shown opposite, one of our first-year technical apprentices, was selected as one of just six students to represent the UK at the Renishaw products are making a continuing contribution to Intel International Science and Engineering Fair ISEF held in energy reduction and green energy systems with Raman now Los Angeles in May 2011. used to analyse the quality of solar panels.
Roxannes award was presented to her by the Worshipful Worldwide staff turnover has reduced to just 6% compared to Company of Scientific Instrument Makers during the UKs UK national average for manufacturing of 12.4%.
national Big Bang Fair and was made for her innovative bicycle A record number of young people entered the Group safety helmet which allows cyclists to indicate presence and this Summer, with 85 undergraduates undertaking paid driving directions whist keeping full control of the bike.
She placements and 25 apprentices confirmed for originally developed the helmet as part of an A-level Design & September 2011.
Technology course project whilst attending Chipping Sodbury School, near Bristol.
Further investments made to improve energy monitoring systems electricity, water and gas and significant At ISEF, Roxanne joined 1,600 students from across the world investments approved to upgrade interior lighting to reduce and although she didnt win any of the awards on offer, she running costs and carbon footprint.
learnt a great deal and met many high profile scientists and engineers, including US TV personality Bill Nye, and was also Expansion of sponsorship programmes for community interviewed for ten minutes by CNN.
Donation of 130,000 to Red Cross Japanese Earthquake Relief Fund.
Group Headquarters, New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge 29 corporate socIal responsIbIlIty Roxanne Pollard pictured in Renishaws development machine shop with her award-winning bicycle safety helmet.
It contains a light sensitive red LED at the rear of the helmet which automatically illuminates under certain light levels, and also contains amber LEDs situated on either side of the helmet which are contact-sensitive and become active when the rider touches them.
30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED During the year a Group Business Code the Code which individual talents can flourish.
We have a diverse mix of was approved by the Board, which sets out the principles age ranges, gender and ethnicity - at the end of June 2011 of business conduct and standards that all companies in some 20.4% of UK staff are aged over 50 2010 19.2%, with the Renishaw Group are expected to follow.
It has been 13.3% below 25 2010 12.9%, and some 23.7% of introduced to all staff and is available to external employees are female 2010 22.5%.
Worldwide staff turnover organisations on request, or via the Renishaw website.
excluding redundancies has reduced compared to last year at On 1st July 2011 the UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force.
around 6% 2010 7%, which compares very favourably with The Board has informed all staff worldwide that it has adopted the 2010 average in the UK manufacturing sector of 12.4% a zero-tolerance attitude to bribery and corruption, which source: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
applies to all employees of the Renishaw Group and to all third Long service is rewarded at every five years of service and parties who act on behalf of the Group.
A committee with can include small gifts, extra holiday allowance and a cash responsibility for analysing the risks of bribery within the sum, with 258 staff achieving a milestone this financial year, Renishaw Group and for implementing adequate anti-bribery including 25 people who achieved awards of 25 years or more.
procedures in response to those risks has already been A group performance bonus programme rewards staff with established by authority of the Renishaw Board.
an annual bonus based upon group results and individual performance.
customers Variable working-time has been adopted as standard With a direct presence in 31 countries, we pride ourselves practice for most UK staff, allowing staff members to create a on offering expert local support to our customers, no matter better worklife balance, whilst at the same time maintaining full where their Renishaw product was originally purchased.
With support to Renishaws worldwide customer base.
Other benefits businesses increasingly focused on their environmental impact that staff receive include the use of gymnasiums at the New and the need to reduce costs, our products are helping Mills, Stonehouse, Ireland and Woodchester sites and customers to reduce energy consumption and minimise waste.
subsidised restaurants at the most populous UK locations.
Sewtec Automation, which makes production and There is a high quality crche at the Pune facility in India.
In the packaging systems for consumer goods, uses Renishaw touch UK there are discounts for sports and social activities, probes on its CNC machine tools to significantly reduce administered by a volunteer employee-run organisation.
unproductive setting times and eliminate scrap components.
In the Gloucestershire locations, close to their respective One component that used to take 90 minutes to set, now takes birthdays, staff members are invited to attend a just 10 minutes, reducing the total energy consumption communications meeting at which Board members are present.
required to produce the same level of machined components.
These meetings provide staff with information about Further examples can be found in the news section of our developments within the Company and give them the website, www.
opportunity to ask any question of the Board in an open Our products also continue to make a significant discussion forum.
A copy of the presentation and responses to contribution to the manufacture and operation of alternative questions raised at these meetings are made available to all energy products, especially solar power, where due to concerns worldwide staff via the Groups intranet.
Following the over nuclear energy and the rising costs of fossil fuels, there announcement of interim and annual financial results, all staff is growing pressure on the manufacture of efficient solar in Gloucestershire and Edinburgh via videoconference are also energy systems.
invited to attend a series of presentations, with all issues raised PRAMAC Swiss SA runs the largest solar panel production again made available to all worldwide staff.
TM facility in Switzerland and uses Renishaws inVia Raman After a gap due to the recession and resource issues, the microscope in both its production plant and its quality control worldwide staff newsletter Probity is now being published QC laboratory to check the quality of its solar panels.
again every two months, with contributions encouraged from The company produces panels that use multi-layer thin across the Group.
Throughout the year other company updates film technology to increase solar absorption and significantly and items felt to be of interest to employees are also regularly increase efficiency.
The Company encourages direct Every 15 days, just after first deposition of the silicon employee feedback either to immediate supervisors or Board thin layer, some 20 panels are withdrawn from production members, and, additionally, a suggestion scheme exists with and cut into 13 square samples for Raman analysis in the awards for the best ideas received.
The crystalline fraction of each sample is A strength of the Company throughout its history has been measured at three different points and the process has the encouragement of young talent, with an apprenticeship TM been semi-automated using Renishaws WiRE software scheme started in 1979 and sponsored student scheme in custom analysis package.
During this summer some 85 undergraduates entered Renishaw for paid placements 70 summer and 15 one-year staff industrial placements, amongst which the most promising Renishaw is an equal opportunities employer operating a students will be given financial incentives to maintain a strict policy of non-discriminatory behaviour, offering an relationship with the Company into the future.
There are 33 environment that promotes innovation and progress within craft and technical apprentices currently in training and 20 new 31 1 1: The ability to sample data starters confirmed for September 2011, plus 5 software the environment over very large areas, apprentices.
A further 30 recent graduates also started with Renishaw takes its responsibilities for the environment seamlessly, in minutes, Renishaw this summer.
seriously and has made further investments to improve its makes Renishaws StreamLine Raman imaging Over the last 12 months Renishaws Applications Academy performance in relation to energy consumption, water usage, system the ideal method has continued to develop a varied training curriculum and the emissions and disposal of waste materials.
The Company for rapidly researching polycrystalline silicon cells Company is seeing significant benefits from a structured continues to optimise and control its energy consumption, as used in the manufacture of training programme that is now being rolled out globally.
Six previously reported, with an additional emphasis upon cost solar panels.
Systems are also available for on-line solar application engineers have completed the first twelve months of control during the last 12-month period.
panel inspection for quality a two year programme, including secondments at the Advanced assurance applications during Manufacturing Research Centre in Sheffield AMRC, at Energy manufacture.
Renishaw GmbH, and various UK business divisions.
During the In the UK, installation of half-hourly metering for electricity year there have been three full training courses ranging from 8 consumption is nearing completion.
This will allow improved weeks to 12 weeks duration, with attendance levels of between monitoring and the ability to clearly identify opportunities for 5 and 20 engineers.
In September 2011 the Academy will be reduced consumption.
Further investments have been made in running its first post-graduate course aimed at introducing new Renishaws detailed monitoring equipment to identify specific graduates to the Company, and is developing several individually peaks in electricity usage, quantify reductions and make tailored courses for the Group: courses for a new Sales Academy continuous improvements across various sites.
In addition, are also being planned.
investments have been made in systems that will monitor gas During the year the Company undertook a comprehensive and water usage at the main UK sites allowing these energy review of its management process relating to health and safety.
streams to be similarly reduced.
A new management policy has been established that improves During the last twelve months the Company has also the organisation, control and monitoring of matters relating to approved significant investments to upgrade interior lighting health and safety, as well as establishing a new framework for systems at its large Gloucestershire sites to the latest the completion, management and review of risk assessments.
technology with a view to reducing both running costs and Directors of each UK business division have also recently carbon footprint.
This follows investment in recent years in participated in training to ensure that they fully understand their passive infra-red detectors to switch off lighting when areas responsibilities and to equip them in ensuring a successful are not occupied and technology upgrades to lower wattage implementation of the new policies.
32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Figure 1 Figure 2 Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions 2011 in tonnes of CO Landfill totals 2011 2 estimate 2008 total to landfill 383.4 tonnes Scope 1 2009 total to landfill 225.8 tonnes Gas consumption 652 2010 total to landfill 154.8 tonnes 2011 total to landfill 151.9 tonnes Owned transport 1,617 Generator diesel 40 Heating oil 77 Tonnes Total scope 1 2,386 200 180 Scope 2 160 Purchased electricity 14,347 140 14,347 Total scope 2 120 Significant scope 3 100 Business travel 2,144 80 Product distribution 3,908 60 Metal purchase 7,465 40 Post Communications 353 20 Total significant scope 3 13,870 0 Old Town New Mills Woodchester Stonehouse Only UK data included Sites As Renishaw consumed more than 6 megawatts of Due to the delays in legislation relating to the Carbon Trust electricity in 2008 it is bound by UK legislation to comply with Standard, targets for the reduction of carbon emissions were the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme formerly known as the not set by Renishaw in 2011, but the figures above will now Carbon Reduction Commitment and has registered accordingly.
form the baseline for Renishaw when it sets targets during the To continue progress made in recent years by monitoring usage 2012 financial year.
and continue to reduce CO emissions, the Board has made a Although not included within these standard Government 2 commitment to achieving the Carbon Trust Standard which will measures, Renishaw recognises that there is a significant also benefit the Company in terms of its ranking within the CRC impact caused by staff driving to its Gloucestershire sites.
There Energy Efficiency Scheme and any rebates due under the terms is very limited public transportation serving these sites and of the scheme.
therefore the Company actively encourages car sharing by However progress in this area has been slow during the hosting a specific area on the company intranet, through join last twelve months whilst the legislation has been under review.
lift-share notices in communal areas and through the circulation of regular emails that remind staff of the benefits of car sharing.
Emissions Figure 1 Unless otherwise stated, the analysis in Figure 1 includes the Waste Management Figure 2 Groups global operations for the 12-month period 1st June 2010 Renishaw has continued to analyse waste streams and as a to 31st May 2011, with the exception of recent acquisitions MDL, result strives to increase recycling and reduce amounts sent to MTT and Renishaw Advanced Materials.
landfill, notably paper, cardboard, plastic cups, toner cartridges The measurement of the overall impact of carbon emissions and batteries.
Analysis of the waste streams at the main UK sites within the Group is very complex given the geography and scope shows a marked reduction in landfill has been made in recent of operations.
Despite a sharp increase in sales 54% excluding years, although the sharp increase in manufacturing activity has recent acquisitions and a decision to also grow inventories to seen an increase during the 2011 financial year at our ensure adequate stock in an environment of growing but Stonehouse machine shop.
unpredictable and substantial order intake, emissions in the Reduction of waste at source is also seen as a key financial year 2011 increased by 52% over the previous year.
A contributor to overall waste reduction.
Continuing efforts are best estimate is that 30,607 tonnes of CO were emitted through being made to distribute both technical and sales documentation 2 our activities 2010 20,151 tonnes.
These increases are therefore in electronic format and the encoder business division no longer proportionally lower than increased activity levels within the Group distributes user guides to its customers, with up-to-date guides and reflect improved efficiencies in energy management.
available through a special support website.
20.8 44.3 46.1 17.4 126.1 80.3 52.2 52.0 153.9 62.0 38.9 42.0 82.6 39.2 17.6 40.5 33 1 2 3 1: Following the devastating earthquake that hit Japan on 2: In September 2010, Renishaw represented by Head of 3: On separate dates in June 2011, Renishaw India welcomed 11th March 2011, as well as a Renishaw Group contribution Communications Chris Pockett, far left was one of just both Sir Richard Stagg pictured centre, the British High of 17 million Japanese Yen approximately 130,000 to 4 companies chosen by the UK Government to represent Commissioner to India, and his Deputy, Peter Beckingham, the Red Cross Japanese Earthquake Relief Fund, staff at excellence in British design, engineering and manufacturing, to find out more about operations at its recently expanded Renishaw KK have also made valuable contributions to the at a special exhibition held at the Department for Business facility in Pune.
relief effort in the worst hit areas.
Pictured left is Kyoko Innovation and Skills BIS.
Kobodo, Leader Sales Administration, who travelled to Sendai City where over 26,000 homes were destroyed, helping to move rubble, wood and sludge from houses and farms.
Commercial documentation, such as invoices and continues to communicate a positive story about the role of acknowledgements, is also available through a paperless science, engineering and manufacturing in enhancing the lives facility, with customers encouraged to accept this form of of the general populace and the attractions of a career within transaction.
Although only one of the Groups products currently falls Throughout the year Renishaw therefore hosts at its within the scope of the requirements of the European Directive headquarters tour groups of all ages, which in the past 12 2002 95 EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous months has included local primary and secondary schools, Substances RoHS, all new position encoder products are now university undergraduates, charitable organisations and introduced as RoHS compliant, and the Company continues to investment clubs.
develop and implement processes for other metrology products The Company also actively supports the regions business to ensure that they will meet the extended scope of the directive community, imparting its knowledge through roundtable which will be implemented in 2017. discussions and business seminars, which in the past year has The Company is also working hard to meet the included export trade, business with China, cost efficiencies and requirements of the European Directive on the Registration, ethical business.
It also loans its facilities to business Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH organisations and networking groups, and acted as a host and and to date no substances of very high concern SVHC have ambassador for the Born Global competition which aimed to been identified in its products at a level requiring any action.
A identify young businesses with export potential.
dedicated project manager co-ordinates the Companys During the year numerous local community festivals and activities with regard to compliance with both RoHS and REACH carnivals were also supported through sponsorship, including directives, including risk assessments and information gathering the Stroud International Textile Festival, which Renishaw was from suppliers.
The Company also forged closer links with Gloucester Rugby Club, which plays in the English the community Premiership league, presenting the clubs Young Player of the The Company is one of Gloucestershires largest companies Year award in June.
and recognises the positive role that it can play through its ongoing relationships with the local community, businesses, charity schools and sports organisations.
With the recognised national Over 20 years ago the Company created the Renishaw shortage in the UK of skilled engineers and scientists, it Charities Committee RCC to distribute funds to support 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Education charitable and voluntary organisations, and to support the The Company has a fundamental aim to nurture the next individual charitable efforts of staff through a match-funding generation of engineers and scientists and during the past 12 scheme.
The RCC is made up of staff representatives from the months has taken steps to accelerate engagement with the Companys main Gloucestershire sites and has a particular educational sector.
focus to assist organisations that help enrich the lives of A new education liaison role has been created within the children and adults, from toddler groups and sports clubs, Company, which will co-ordinate its activities with selected through to organisations that support the disabled and the secondary schools, universities and STEM Science Technology bereaved.
A separate fund is also administered by the RCC, Engineering and Mathematics enrichment organisations.
The which donates monies to aid the victims of global disasters, aim is to help facilitate STEM teaching, to raise the profile of which during the past year included the Pakistan Disaster Renishaw and to aid the recruitment of the most Appeal and Rapid UK, the  specialist talented individuals.
international urban search and rescue team.
As part of this process the Company has already identified During the year the RCC donated funds towards a multi- 25 secondary schools in the Gloucestershire, Bristol and South sensory unit at the National Star College, based near Wales region, to which it has donated 1,000 each towards Cheltenham, Gloucestershire.
SFMBUFE QSPKFDUT BOE QSJ[FT O UIF VOJWFSTJUZ TFDUPS UIF works with children who have physical, sensory or learning Company is also participating in more recruitment fairs and difficulties to enable them to prepare for the best that adult life events designed to enable interaction between students and can offer.
The multi-sensory unit will help students to manage potential employers.
These have included a Renishaw seminar their pain, anxiety, stress and behaviour.
at the Engineering Faculty of Oxford University and participation The Cots for Tots Appeal aims to provide four life-saving in a Postgraduate Research Symposium at Imperial College, cots and a new intensive care suite for the Neonatal IntensivePOEPO XIFSF 3FOJTIBX TUBGG IFMQFE KVEHF BOE BXBSE QSJ[FT Care Unit at St Michaels Hospital, Bristol, and a family GPS UIF CFTU QSPKFDUT accommodation suite close-by.
Before choosing to support the The Company also continued its policy of opening its doors appeal, members of the RCC visited the Unit which cares for to visits from primary schools, secondary schools and more than 600 babies every year from across the South West universities.
This year one-week work experience placements of England, some born as early as 23 weeks.
Huge recent were also given to over 50 students under the age of 18. advances in the care of premature and newborn babies mean During National Science and Engineering Week, the that the Unit is able to care for many more babies, creating the Companys staff visited several local primary schools, where need for the new equipment.
UIFZ HBWF UBMLT BOE KVEHFE DPNQFUJUJPOT 5IFTF JODMVEFE On 11th March this year one of the five most powerful Simonne Watts, from Renishaws Personnel Department, who earthquakes ever recorded hit Japan, which, combined with a became a STEM Ambassador during the year.
This excellent huge tsunami that it triggered, led to widespread devastation, programme aims to identify and train volunteers who will act as suffering and significant loss of life.
Renishaws offices in Tokyo inspiring role models for young people, helping them to see and Nagoya were both undamaged and employees were safe, 45&.
TVCKFDUT BOE DBSFFST XJUI B GSFTI QFSTQFDUJWF although Tokyo staff endured multiple aftershocks for many Renishaw also supported numerous other organisations and days.
However, an event of this cataclysm touched many, and events that aim to inspire young engineers.
These included on 6th April the Board approved a payment to the Red Cross hosting the South-West Region launch of Go4SET, a scheme Japanese Earthquake Relief Fund of 13 million Japanese Yen, UIBU HJWFT ZPVOH TUVEFOUT B XFFL 45&.
QSPKFDU UP IFMQ which added to a 4 million Japanese Yen donation from UIFN NBLF JOGPSNFE EFDJTJPOT BCPVU UIFJS TVCKFDU PQUJPOT 5IF Renishaw KKs company trip fund, made a total contribution of Company also released young engineers to act as mentors and 17 million Japanese Yen approximately 130,000. ambassadors at national STEM events such as the UKs Big The Japanese Red Cross has been providing people in Bang Fair and the Cheltenham Science Festival, as well as need with first aid and emergency healthcare, as well as local apprentice recruitment fairs and Women in distributing relief items.
As the operation moves out of the relief Engineering events.
and into the recovery phase, the Japanese Red Cross is helping to fit out 70,000 temporary homes with an appliance package FTSE Group confirms that Renishaw plc has been consisting of key domestic items such as rice cookers, independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, microwaves and kettles.
The completion and equipping of these and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of QSFGBCSJDBUFE IPNFT XJMM CF B NBKPS TUFQ UPXBSET FBTJOH UIF the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index pressure on evacuation centres and allowing people to return to company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that some semblance of normal life.
is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet Renishaw is proud to be able to support the Red Crosss globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
excellent efforts and some Renishaw KK staff have also made Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent valuable contributions to the relief effort in the worst hit areas, social, ethical and environmental criteria, and are positioned to by volunteering their time to help.
capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
