Governance Governance The company considers that there are sufficient controls Charitable donations, communities and and processes in place to ensure that the required level of political donations independence is maintained.
The company has a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services provided by the companys The companys approach to the community consists of three auditors.
The amount of non-audit fees earned by the auditors separate elements charitable cash donations mainly linked to employees initiatives, community support and community is routinely reported to the committee.
The board does not investment.
Community support and investment is locally rather consider that there is any material risk of the companys auditors than centrally driven.
Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2011 amounted to 58,000 Further information on auditor independence is provided in the and a further 77,000 was donated in other countries.
Total report of the audit committee.
This amount excludes value in kind donations or colleagues time.
The Accountability and audit company operates a matched giving scheme whereby the company The board is required by the Code to present a balanced and matches donations raised by employee fundraising.
No company understandable assessment of the companys position and donation was greater than 2,000.
Payments are made to a wide prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the financial There were no payments to political organisations during 2011 statements set out on page 41.
The independent auditors report on page 110 includes a statement Further details of charity and community involvement are provided by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board in the corporate responsibility section on pages 52 to 56. recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other pricesensitive public reports, reports to regulators, and information Employees required to be presented by law.
The company attaches considerable importance to communicating with colleagues.
Internal communications take place at a group, divisional, business and team level in order to ensure that Audit information colleagues receive accurate information in a timely manner and a Insofar as each of the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit variety of structures exist for two-way communications at all levels.
information as defined by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 At a corporate level the group intranet which was refreshed in of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each director 2010 is used to announce company news with the support of has taken all of the steps that should have been taken to ensure direct email communication from the executive team.
This is that they are each aware of any relevant audit information as supplemented by a periodic electronic magazine called Horizon defined and to establish that the companys auditors are aware which features interviews with senior executives about major of that information.
In Europe, the company meets its European Forum European Directors indemnity and insurance Works Council usually twice a year to communicate with The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors as colleagues representatives from across the continent.
The is permitted by Section 232-235 of the Companies Act 2006.
It has company maintains an open dialogue with the Forum at times of also purchased insurance cover for the directors against liabilities business change.
Divisional communications use a wide range of arising in relation to the company, as permitted by the Companies channels such as email, divisional intranets, electronic newsletters Act 2006.
This insurance does not cover criminal activity.
and quarterly magazines to communicate business issues including financial and economic factors affecting the operations.
Great importance is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
Change of control provisions Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or considered, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicants.
terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as some In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort commercial agreements, financing arrangements and employee is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms continues and that appropriate re-training is made available.
It is of their potential impact on the group as a whole.
the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those of other employees.
39 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
