Corporate responsibility report The Restaurant Group plc TRG or the Group Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that TRG is acknowledges that it has a significant role to play with regard required to monitor and provide regular updates to the to the community and wider environment in which it operates.
Department of Health with regard to the actions we are taking This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and to fulfil our commitments within the pledge.
The Group is also activity that the Group has undertaken to date, and what the working on initiatives which will enable its brands to commit Group is looking at for future development, in managing its to the Salt Pledge and Fruit and Vegetable Pledge.
impact on customers, employees, communities and the wider environment.
2011 has also seen the launch of lighter options within TRGs core brand menus.
This has involved the development This is split into five sections: of recipes which deliver a dish that has specific calorie ff Our market the area of business that our strategy contents.
For example the Frankie & Bennys main menu is focused on.
contains a range of main course dishes containing 650 ff Our people the Groups policies and actions towards calories or less, with starters and desserts containing 300 our 10,000 employees.
The aim of these dishes is to provide a guide ff Our communities how TRG interacts with those for guests who are actively monitoring their calorie intake or communities from which our customers and employees who are simply conscious of the calories that they consume are drawn.
ff Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG ff Our shareholders those that have invested capital in the acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have development of The Restaurant Group plc, and to whom the a role to play in providing appropriate options from which Directors and management of the Group are accountable.
individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly believes that we should offer our guests choices on the Our market menu.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to The Restaurant Group plc has focused its attention on provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more markets in the United Kingdom which have significant growth indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat, and potential.
For a number of years, dining out has been a therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied to growing market, and, partially as a result of this, there has healthy eating on a day-to-day basis are waived in favour of been an increased focus from customers and regulatory enjoyment and experience.
For example, whilst completing authorities on health issues relating to our sector.
We have the weekly shop a consumer may choose chocolate fudge seen initiatives on alcohol, food in particular on calorie cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece of fruit consumption and fat and salt content and smoking over during the week.
recent years and these are set to continue to be a focus.
Other initiatives It is important that the Group continues to monitor closely these Our steaks and burgers are principally supplied from developments and ensure that we offer our customers a broad producers in the UK and Ireland and we have taken significant range of choice in our restaurants, including healthy options.
steps to reduce our food miles.
This process will continue into 2012, with a focus on improving our supply chain Healthy eating efficiency and reducing the number of deliveries, and therefore In 2011, The Restaurant Group became a partner of the food miles, to our restaurants.
Our Concessions business use Public Health Responsibility Deal the Responsibility Deal, only free range eggs and our pubs source locally where launched by the Department of Health.
The Responsibility possible, supporting local producers and brewers.
Deal has been established to tap into the potential for businesses and other organisations to improve public health TRG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange through their influence over food, alcohol, physical activity SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and improvement and health in the workplace.
in ethical business practices across the supply chain: 123 of our food suppliers and 35 other non-food suppliers provide TRG is currently committed to three pledges within the information describing their procedures and practices to the Responsibility Deal: Group via SEDEX.
ff We have removed all added trans fats from our products: ff We will use our local presence to encourage children and As in previous years, there continue to be no known adults to become more active: genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses and ff We commit to ensuring effective action is taken in all new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not premises to reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol provide the Group with such products.
We are also working primarily through rigorous application of Challenge 21 and with our suppliers to target and remove the Southampton Challenge 25.
Institute colourings that can cause hyperactivity in children and this will remain an ongoing focus during 2012.
26 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Drink aware This gives us a group of employees able to meet the All our restaurants operate an Challenge 21 policy, whereby challenges our market presents.
We have a fair and open we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears recruitment process with clear terms of employment and we to be under 21.
We also participate in the Challenge 25 have developed a new website www.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol jobs to allow easier access to available jobs for potential to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption with employees across our Group.
All staff are provided with a a meal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of noncontract of employment and copies of our staff handbook alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals along with other policies to ensure everyone is aware of our and non-alcoholic cocktails and tap water is available for rules, expectations and procedures, including grievance and customers free of charge.
Smoking The Group has an ethical dealings policy in place which From 1 July 2007 we have complied fully with the legislation incorporates a strict prohibition on bribery and corruption in throughout the United Kingdom which has banned smoking compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
The Group also has in public areas.
a defined termination policy, should this be required.
Our people Our focus on ensuring the recruitment of our teams complies The most important asset any company can have is its with current legislation continues.
With the UK Border Agency people.
At The Restaurant Group plc we strive to nurture our instigating regular visits to employers to check the validity of individuals to build great teams.
Anyone has the potential to our employees rights to work in the UK we have instigated develop within our company and we endeavour to give them robust measures to prevent the possibility of TRG the tools and knowledge to encourage this.
This is the key to contravening the rules.
any successful business and our team is one of which we are especially proud.
The Restaurant Group plc pays all of its employees at least the national minimum wage and does not utilise tips in any Our Managers in Training scheme continues to identify form to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the and develop talent and 2012 will see the roll out of a new employees, with credit card tips attracting only the usual Management Development initiative.
Such schemes are a key tax deductions but, unlike some of our competitors, no feature of the Groups succession planning strategy and are administration fee is taken by the company.
therefore designed to equip managers with the skills they need to develop their careers at the next level and to ensure The Group allocates considerable resources to provide high TRG remains their employer of choice over the long-term.
quality training to our teams.
Training begins on the first day and is an ongoing process of development and support.
Our 2011 also saw the first intake under TRGs graduate training team is fully qualified and delivers high quality courses, recruitment scheme in which new graduates will learn and as well as guiding new and established team members develop skills from some of the best operators in the industry throughout their development.
with a view to a fast-track career in restaurant management.
With our portfolio of sites it is vital that our communication is We employ over 10,000 people and continue to increase this of a very high standard.
Each day branch staff are given team number as we expand our business.
briefings: weekly meetings for staff and management are held: and weekly communications packs are issued from head office The Group opened a further 25 restaurants during 2011 and to each brand.
Our senior managers are out in the business created over 500 jobs for local communities in the process.
extensively and interact daily with their branch management Our policies ensure that we offer equal rights regardless of and team members to ensure full two-way communication is age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion present throughout the business.
and the diversity of our people reflects the diversity of the customers we serve.
The health and safety of our customers and employees is of paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and standards in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors to perform a rolling programme of independent safety audits and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have also significantly increased the level of training in health and safety matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 27 Corporate responsibility report continued Our communities We are proud of our Frankie & Bennys Schools Programme Active involvement in the local communities around our which supports the Primary Key Stages Curriculum.
This restaurants and pub restaurants is important to the Group.
encourages primary school classes to visit their local Frankie & Whilst we operate successful national brands our focus is Bennys restaurant to learn about the restaurant business, food on local community marketing, whether this is for Frankie & hygiene and health and safety, and to have the opportunity to Bennys, with over 200 restaurants, or the individual pub at make and bake their own pizzas.
During 2011 we held the heart of a village community.
TRG supports staff approximately 1,100 such visits across the country over fundraising activities at a brand and local level.
27,000 pupils visited Frankie & Bennys as part of this initiative.
During 2011 we engaged in a number of local and national Our environment charitable events: During 2011 we have continued with the Groups commitment to minimising its impact on the environment, as part of which The Frankie & Bennys teams across the country supported we appointed a dedicated Group Energy and Environmental a number of regional charities.
In Scotland we raised over Manager.
Not only are the attitudes and expectations of our 75,000 with CHAS childrens hospices in Scotland.
In the customers changing over time but we recognise that the Midlands we raised 10,000 for CLIC Sargent, a childrens Groups activities impact the natural environment, most cancer charity.
At a national level Frankie & Bennys significantly with regard to energy consumption and carbon supported BBCs Children In Need in 2011 and raised over emissions, water consumption and the creation and removal 125,000.
Money was raised from customers and staff of waste.
Innovative regulatory mechanisms are being through local events, raffles and theme and fancy dress introduced that may in future create a direct link between nights as well the Pudsey Pizza competition which ran during environmental outcomes and financial benefits or penalties.
A campaign was rolled out through traditional and online channels asking children to submit a recipe for In 2011 we concluded a successful trial of energy efficient a Children In Need Pudsey Pizza.
All submissions were lighting systems and roll out has begun across the estate reviewed and four regional winners were selected.
The which we anticipate will lead to significant reductions in both winners all received a family holiday to Disneyland Paris and energy use and running costs.
their pizzas were sold through the restaurants in the run-up to the big Children In Need event in November 2011.
1 for TRG is proud to have achieved the Carbon Saver Gold every Pudsey Pizza sold was donated to the charity with Standard in January 2012 in recognition of the Groups almost 8,000 being raised in total through this initiative.
sustained reductions in energy use over the last three years.
Frankie & Bennys continues its initiative to support local junior sports teams across the country, providing new sports kit for more than 160 local teams in 2011.
Chiquito teams raised over 6,500 in 2011 for Casa Alianza, a homeless childrens charity in Mexico.
Monies were raised through local events and activities during April and May within the brands Fiesta of all Fiestas campaign.
Our pubs undertake a number of fund-raising initiatives for local charities in their communities.
Following success with English Heritages Best UK Pub Refurbishment in 2009 for Sutton Hall in Macclesfield, Brunning & Price undertook the redevelopment of an abandoned Grade 1 listed building, Old Hall in Sandbach, which has stood since 1656.
The building had been derelict for a number of years and a local campaign group, the Sandbach Old Hall Action Group SOHAG had been founded to try and prevent a further deterioration of the historic site.
Following extensive planning and regulatory considerations Brunning & Price acquired the Old Hall in October 2009 with a view to transform it into a successful pub.
The project to restore the Hall was a significant undertaking given the level of disrepair it had fallen into including securing the foundations of the building and relaying by hand of around 300 tons of stone slabs to rebuild the roof.
In July 2011 the Old Hall was finally re-opened to the public and is now a focal point in the local community.
We are delighted that following the opening of the pub, SOHAG have changed their name to the Sandbach Old Hall Appreciation Group.
28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements We have a multi-disciplinary team working on further reducing Reducing the resources we use and the waste we generate our energy consumption through operational practices and is also a key objective for the Group.
In 2011: staff awareness, premises design and the improved use of ff We recycled over 750,000 litres of used cooking oil an technology to monitor and control our use of energy, water increase of around 100,000 litres from 2010 : waste oil and waste.
We use external specialist advisers to assist in is re-used at a bio-diesel production facility: developing and monitoring our initiatives.
ff We reduced carbon dioxide emissions by over 1,400 tonnes, the equivalent of taking almost 700 cars of the road: We recognise that lasting change in energy consumption by ff We diverted almost 4,450 tons of waste from landfill: the Group requires changes in behaviour for our whole team.
ff We have initiated mixed recycling at over 85% of our The provision of accurate and timely management information businesses where we control the collection: and covering energy consumption is an essential tool supporting ff We have food recycling trials in place and results are being the change.
A web-based energy-information portal to provide monitored closely to develop efficiencies and reduce waste.
consumption data to restaurants and our operators has been developed in association with our energy consultants and Our shareholders allows us to target more inefficient sites and challenge our The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver teams through league tables to improve their energy efficiency.
value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we We have also launched an energy saving campaign to all can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and which sites, providing information to help our staff drive energy offer high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to efficiency.
By February 2012 we had installed automated focus investment into the edge and out of town leisure meter readers to supplement half-hourly monitoring of locations, rural and semi-rural pubs and our Concessions electricity supplies at 99% of our eligible restaurants in business, which operates principally on airports.
Frankie & Bennys, Chiquito and Garfunkels, and 98% of available sites for gas supplies.
The Group has had a progressive dividend policy and has had a strong track record of growing profits and dividends We have installed an equipment monitoring system in for shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive one Frankie & Bennys restaurant to allow us to monitor all Officers review of operations and Group Finance Directors electrical equipment on a half hourly basis and test out new report provide further detail on the Groups strategy, energy saving replacement equipment.
This has already led performance during 2011 and prospects for the Group.
to changes in the equipment that is installed in a standard Frankie & Bennys and during 2012 we will monitor the savings in energy consumption from this restaurant.
We are continuing our work external advisers to develop further environmental efficiencies in our building design and equipment used in our operations.
New build sites now include heat recovery systems, energy saving lighting and low energy hand dryers.
We continue to review the energy performance of all sites with a view to including energy and financially efficient equipment in other new restaurants.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 29
