49 we will reduce our waste to landfill people: engaged employees We use lean six sigma tools to drive out waste from our manufacturing processes.
A specific KPI based on the reduction ofwaste to landfill is being implemented across the Group to We realise that we can only achieve our vision to be the best global ensure we are sharing strategies to reduce this towards zero.
consumer packaging company with committed, engaged and well supported employees.
We base our approach to, and expectation In Beverage Cans, the single largest component of our waste to of, our employees around our four Rexam values of continuous landfill is a side product from the manufacturing process called improvement, recognition, teamwork andtrust.
There are a number of different approaches depending on local conditions.
In some locations we are able to eliminate filter We are committed to ensuring our employees work in a safe, fair cake see page 48 whereas in others we are diverting this waste and enjoyable environment.
We also encourage our people to be from landfill to an alternative use.
An internal project team is active members of their local communities.
Furthermore, we believe working to roll out the appropriate solutions across the business.
investing in our people: providing the resources, environment and opportunity for them to develop their skills and capabilities is key measure and target integral to our vision.
In the short term, we aim to establish a consistent measure of waste to landfill at all our sites with the immediate objective of reducing we will make sure our people work in a safe and further waste to landfill.
Our long term objective is to achieve zero healthyenvironment waste to landfill.
Rexam is dedicated to implementing worldclass environmental, health and safety processes and culture across the Company.
we will improve the environmental performance ofoursites In 2011, our health and safety performance showed continued All our sites have robust Environmental Management Systems EMS improvement with a 7% reduction in Lost Time Accident Rates inplace, and we encourage external verification where appropriate.
In excess of 70% of our sites did not Even when external verification is not sought, we adopt EMS, which have alost time accident in 2011.
We believe in the importance of are internally verified, that include key elements of ISO 14001. continually engaging with our employees and for this reason our In2011,100% of our 83 plants were verified against ISO 14001 Behaviour Based Safety BBS initiative continued into 2011. orequivalent standard 2010: 58% 48 plants.
We record all incidents relating to health and safety.
Metrics such We target zero significant uncontrolled or abnormal releases, as LTAR and Days Away Restricted Time allow us to investigate and anddelivered this again in 2011. share best practice across theGroup.
We use the number of work days and or restricted timeincidents to track the severity of injuries.
In addition to our focus on improving the environmental In 2011, we had 14significant injuries which exceed 30 lost or performance of our manufacturing plants, we are also acting restricted days, consisting of fractures, strains and cut injuries.
We toreduce the environmental impact of our office sites.
In 2011, also introduced a new environmental health and safety audit, ourNorth American beverage can headquarters moved into which over 40% ofour sites have completed to date.
newoffices which we designed and refurbished to exacting environmental standards.
This office has received Leadership in During the year, we established a central operational technical Energy and Environmental Design LEED status, which certifies standard to ensure a consistent approach to safe working thatthe construction of the new space was completed within practices.
We also created a global operational risk management arecommended framework of leading  policy which will be launched in 2012.
The policy covers fire safety design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions.
and property protection, site and travel security, business continuity management and environmental health and safety.
Each of these key measures and targets ismeasured through proactive input and KPIs.
We believe these Our measures for Rexam sites environmental performance are approaches to health and safety will drive benchmarking and best theamount of uncontrolled or abnormal releases we have, what practice sharing across the Group to achieve world class percentage ofour plants are ISO 14001 certified or equivalent, operational risk status.
as well how many of our regional Group offices are environmentally accredited.
In 2011 we had no significant property loss incidents 2010: nil.
Our long term targets are to continue having zero uncontrolled or We support employees wellbeing by offering employee wellness abnormal releases, to continue to have 100% of our plants ISO programmes eg subsidised gym memberships, health checks or 14001 certified or equivalent and for 100% of our regional Group exercise regimes.
offices to be environmentally accredited.
1 LTAR is the number of lost time accidents times 200,000 total hours worked.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 50 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report sustainability key measures and targets Our South American beverage can business explored new methods The key quantitative measures for this commitment are LTAR of communication and invited employees to share comments, andthepercentage of sites offering some form of employee praise or suggestions through an online Open Channel.
To strengthen everybodys understanding of our leadership practices and core values we have introduced a 360 degree We target a 10% reduction per annum in LTAR with an ultimate feedback tool for leaders across Rexam.
The tool helps provide LTAR of zero and we aim to have 100% of our sites offering adetailed overview of leaders strengths and areas of opportunity, employee wellness programmes by the end of 2012. as well as self assessment and reflection.
The 360 degree long term 2012 feedback is now available in a range of different languages and targets targets 2011 2010 2009 has been well received by the nearly 900 leaders who have LTAR Zero 0.25 0.28 0.30 0.63 participated to date.
Sites offering an In 2010, with the implementation of a global SAP HR platform, employee wellness Rexam started a worldwide programme aimed at achieving programme % 100 85 75 n a n a excellence in HR service delivery, based on improved people processes and on an integrated HR information system platform.
we will continue to build a winning organisation The expected business benefits are providing consistent and timely Our employees are crucial to the delivery of Rexams goals.
During HR transactional services and generating greater employee the year, we used the feedback from 2010s global employee satisfaction with basic HR processes.
engagement survey to implement a range of improvement actions.
With an 87% response rate and in depth focus groups conducted During 2011, a new global Manager Self Service Portal MSSP was subsequently, we were able to identify key areas of opportunity at rolled out across the North America and Europe regions.
This tool local, sector and global levels.
Both our executive leadership team provides line managers with direct access to information about his and all sector leadership teams are committed to improving their her team and enables them to carry out basic people management visibility, fostering trust in leadership, through personally visiting as activities directly via the web based portal.
many plants as possible, and holding face to face meetings to build The first activity facilitated through the MSSP was the 2011 salary on the dialogue with our employees.
merit review process, and Rexam line managers now receive Training and development was another key theme.
The Rexam realtime access to online organisation charts and employee Business School was launched globally in 2011, offering a range directory listings.
oflearning opportunities for our employees.
Our course offering The Rexam European Forum is a joint employee representative and isdiverse, from half hour online courses in a range of languages management body created for the exchange of information and through to comprehensive residential courses which focus on dialogue concerning issues which may impact Rexams employees leadership and specific skill building.
In 2011, we had around within the European Economic Area.
620employees participate in classroom courses and 592 learners logged into CrossKnowledge, our online option.
We also had over Communication with employees is considered a key responsibility 110 registrations to our Improve your English online programme.
for all managers, and employees are encouraged to participate and give their views on any aspect of the Groups business Rexam recognises that communication is key to employee including the annual and half year financial results and the understanding and engagement and we use a variety of tools and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
From newsletters and team briefings to intranet updates and news bulletins, communication is thought of as a two way Rexam also has a well established employee share scheme to process between management and employees.
key measures The key measures for this commitment are sourced from the Group employee engagement survey, which will be conducted around every 18 months.
The next survey is scheduled for early 2012.
Weaim to continually improve these scores over time.
1 2 months without a lost time accident 2011 2010 After a huge amount of commitment to engage and shape safe Employee engagement index favourable behaviour, our entire South American beverage can operation score % n a 62 reached an unprecedented milestone during 2011 one year without a lost time accident.
This exceptional accomplishment Values and leadership practices insafety was achieved through the introduction ofvarious favourable score % n a 53 innovative safety programmes and embedment of them with theaidof various communication channels.
51 sources: Associao Brasileira dos Fabricantes fide Latas fide Alta Reciclabilidade, Association of European Producers of Steel for Packaging, Beverage Can Makers Europe, Can Manufacturers Institute, Consumer Goods Forum, European Aluminium Association and Metal Packaging Europe.
we will ensure our actions interactions are guided The Rexam Academy is a leadership training programme that is byfairness, respect, integrity and honesty runby the Rexam Business School.
Each year around 25 of our To achieve our vision it is critical that our employees behave with employees are selected from across our global operations to integrity, fairness and honesty at all times.
participate in this investment in our people.
As part of the programme, participants are involved in a leadership challenge, We are committed to providing a work environment which is free and this year the group hosted a charity dinner for UNICEFs East ofdiscrimination and or harassment on any level, whether based Africa Childrens Crisis Appeal.
Our employees also donated on race, sex, disability or any other basis.
money to the fund and our South American beverage can operations carried out local fundraising.
In total, the event raised Rexam has equal opportunity policies ranging from selection and over 41,000 for UNICEF.
recruitment to training and development to meet the needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are given full Rexams total charitable cash donations and community activities consideration for employment and subsequent training including, including in kind community and charitable support in the form if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have oftime, facilities and products but excluding employees dedicated become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis fundraising such as the Academy dinner during 2011 amounted to of their aptitudes and abilities.
Our Raise Your Concern RYC programme offers the opportunity cash donations for employees to report anonymously any behaviour or activity We increased charitable cash donations by the Group in 2011 they believe is in contravention of the Code of Conduct CoC to458,000 as shown in the table 2010: 442,000 : and or of any of our policies see pages 66 and 67 for more 2011 2010 information onCoC and RYC.
UK 55,000 52,000 key measures and targets The key measures for this commitment are the percentage Rest of World excluding UK 403,000 390,000 ofsuccessfully completed CoC training modules and the responserate to allegations made via RYC.
The Group has not made any EU political donations during the year and does not intend to do so in the future in respect of which For CoC training, we target achievement of 100% completion shareholder authority is required, or for which disclosure is oftraining modules.
required under the Companies Act 2006.
Regarding RYC response rates, historically we have consistently key measure and target achieved an initial response to the concern raised within five days, We monitor how many of our sites are involved in some form of however, going forward we are targeting an initial response within community programme, and in the long term we are targeting that four days.
100% of our sites will be involved in at least one local community we will encourage all teams to be constructive members programme 2011: 59%.
of our local communities Rexam is a committed partner in the communities in which we operate, and as part of this commitment many of our plants andsites work closely with local charities and groups to make apositive impact.
In January 2011, Rio fide Janeiro suffered from a series of destructive community investment in floods and mudslides.
Our employees raised almost US$60,000 within 15 days, and we provided a lorry to help clear up and North America reconstruct the area.
Since 2010 our plastic packaging facility in Perrysburg, We also pride ourselves on being an ambassador for recycling, Ohio has raised and donated more than US$5,000 and dedicating a large amount of effort in promoting and encouraging volunteered over 150 hours in area classrooms for Junior it.
Our North American beverage can operations involvement in Achievement JA.
JA is an organisation that teaches the the annual America Recycles Day included a six week recycling economics of life through entrepreneurship, financial contest.
They collected a total of 1,836 metric tonnes of aluminium literacy and work readiness education programmes to cans: this great result saw Rexam win first place for the fifth year in more than 24,000 students annually.
Our Community Can Challenge was launched in 2011 and involved 12 plants across nine European countries.
It raised over 15,000 for the plants chosen charities and helped promote recycling and can collection.
Over the 10 weeks, employees 1 50 hours collected nearly 400,000 cans over 6.5 tonnes of metal, equating to 58 tonnes of CO 2.
In Brazil, through Abralatas, we sponsored and supported can collection activities during the Carnival season.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 52 directors report governance Cans are made from coils of aluminium or steel.
Over the past three years Rexam has saved 34,000 tonnes of metal through lightweighting.
53 54 directors and officers We introduce our board and explain why a 56 corporate governance strong sense of governance and compliance 69 remuneration report 81 other disclosures is imperative in every area of our operations.
We give details of the Companys remuneration principles and policy which complement the Groups strategic vision.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
