business r business review eview corporate gover corporate governance finance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 corporate social responsibility Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of Our people opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and Our people are our most highly valued asset.
We take a proactive approach throughout our of our people and the mixture of talent and experience that recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, they bring.
We depend on their skills and commitment to hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is achieve our objectives.
kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential Our cultural style is open and honest.
We invest in employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their ensuring that all employees understand Rightmoves core race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or values and goals.
We achieve this through a combination of similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual a rigorous selection process, including technical skills testing, orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, an off-site residential course to ensure all Rightmovers membership or non-membership of a trade union, disability, understand our core values, ongoing coaching and or any other classification as prescribed by law.
mentoring, and cross-functional team building events involving all employees.
We encourage employee involvement Charitable activity and place great emphasis on keeping employees informed of We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time the Groups activities via bi-monthly staff forums, quarterly and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of particular conferences and half-yearly business performance updates importance to them as individuals.
considerable number of staff have been active in raising We continue to offer our Rightmover-led training academy money or supporting the fundraising activities across a wide designed to provide a structured means for employees to range of other charities for which we offered to match the expand and diversify their skills and knowledge and explore donations raised for team events.
new ways of working with one another.
Given the specialised technical nature of the work we do and the services we Environment provide, we also support ongoing external professional Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact.
Since our operation is primarily office-based, the direct During 2011 we have explored new ways of ensuring environmental impact is relatively low.
Indeed Rightmoves that employees are aware of the additional benefits that they business reduces the overall environmental harm associated can access, which have proved to be a useful retention tool.
with a variety of aspects of the whole home hunting process.
This is achieved not only via our induction process and Traditional ways of finding a home tend to involve large intranet but also through benefits fairs.
In 2011 we placed amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of particular emphasis on communicating the importance of newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to saving for retirement and promoting the pension plan we applicants through the post or leaflet drops by agents.
established in 2008 as well as the option to save by salary Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the exchange.
We did this by holding employee seminars and environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove offering the opportunity for one to one briefings with external takes care to design the layout of property particulars to benefits advisers.
In November 2011, the Companys third reduce the total number of pages that need to be printed Sharesave contract matured allowing employees to benefit out in those cases where a home hunter does want a from the success of the Group over the last three years.
of employees currently participate in the Sharesave scheme.
co. uk corporate social responsibility continued Enhanced information on properties also reduces the amount Health and safety of time home hunters waste in visiting properties that rapidly The Group considers the effective management of health turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion of viewings and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted viewings has During 2010, we continued our fire safety, first aid and work an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has worked hard to place safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health increase the number and size of photographs of each and safety is to provide adequate control of the health and property and has introduced more comprehensive map safety risks arising from work activities, through further searches and aerial photographs which help home hunters consultation with, and training of, employees, the provision to identify the specific location of a property.
The higher the and maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and quality of the information presented about properties, the less use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and carbon footprint is generated by prospective buyers making causes of ill health.
The Group will maintain safe and healthy wasted journeys.
working conditions for employees, visitors and contractors, The Rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for our and keep the policy on health and safety up-to-date with customers to display Energy Performance Certificates which regular reviews and necessary alterations to the policy allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency of as required.
a property they are considering buying and to identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once they have purchased the property.
We take the environmental impact of our own operations seriously.
As an internet-based Group with most staff employed in two office locations, we believe our own environmental footprint is small and that there are no by-products of our operations which have a clear negative impact on the environment.
Our staff are encouraged to take steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, we continue to operate recycling schemes which were established in consultation with local authorities and recycling partners.
As an operator of an online property portal, the main environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the best computational performance which uses the least electrical power.
As an online Group, our culture emphasises a paperless environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do not stop just with how we operate internally we also encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of all our emails.
Moreover in 2008 we introduced e-communications for our shareholders, including an interactive copy of the annual report to enable investors and people with an interest in the Company to print specified pages thereby reducing the quantity of printed material we distribute.
In 2009, we introduced email invoicing for our new homes developer customers and now have 69% of this customer group on paperless billing.
In addition we introduced a paperless sign up process for our customers, which has eliminated the need for paper-based membership and product documentation.
