Sustainable development We believe our strong commitment to sustainable development provides Our approach Rio Tinto with a competitive advantage.
This includes helping us to manage We aim to integrate sustainable development into everything we do, risks effectively, reduce environmental impacts, engage with our communities, wherever we operate.
The Groups long-term vision is to become the decrease operating costs, provide additional business opportunities, attract sector-leading global mining and metals company.
A distinctive capability high-calibre employees and ensure their health and safety and ultimately in sustainable development ensuring ongoing access to people, capital and to deliver better returns for our shareholders.
mineral resources is fundamental to this.
We have implemented a sustainable development framework Sustainable development overview which contains the must have building blocks, which must all work Key achievements together to achieve leading performance and manage risk effectively.
Exposure to an average eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels was reduced by 4.3 per cent per 10,000 employees compared This approach begins with our global code of business conduct, with 2008.
The way we work, supported by our corporate policies, strategies and standards that establish the minimum acceptable requirements for We remained the largest private sector employer of Indigenous behaviour or operating conditions.
Our policies are also supported by Australians.
management systems to ensure appropriate implementation across We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones the Group.
We continue to review our approach to sustainable development to Identified as the sector leader in the Natural Value Initiative analysis ensure it remains focused on the risks most relevant to delivering our on biodiversity and ecosystems management.
Key priorities Performance data Eliminate workplace fatalities and continue to reduce incident and Our sustainable development performance data are reported for calendar injury rates toward our goal of zero harm.
years and, unless stated otherwise, represent 100 per cent of the Improve the identification and evaluation of higher consequence lower parameters at each managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have frequency hazards.
Continue to improve the diversity of our workforce and to focus on the health and wellbeing of employees.
Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability Maintain our energy use and greenhouse gas emission reduction over time.
Progressively rehabilitate our operational land as it comes out of use.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data Continue to enhance our approach to sustainable development to collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
ensure it remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and governance issues most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
We report in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level A and have implemented the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM Materiality assessment sustainable development framework www.
We continue to refine our materiality assessment methodology to ensure this report remains focused on our most significant sustainable Further information on our data definitions, our GRI checked report development issues.
and our alignment with the ICMM sustainable development principles and supporting position statement can be found on: Our process was developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI riotinto.
It involves identification and prioritisation of issues affecting our business and its stakeholders over the next three years.
Safety We are committed to achieving our vision of zero harm.
Our safety strategy The 2011 materiality assessment resulted in the coverage of the following prioritises eliminating workplace fatalities and permanent damage injuries or topics in this report: illnesses.
Leadership remains a crucial factor in achieving these priorities and creating a culture that will eliminate all injuries from the workplace over time.
Safety Our management system provides the framework for hazard identification, Health risk analysis and risk management into all aspects of our activities.
People Regrettably, six people lost their lives whilst working at Rio Tinto Human rights managed operations and operations held for divestment in 2011.
The Communities and social performance events were an electric shock incident at the Iron Ore Company of Canada, Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use two people drowning at Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia, a drowning and a crush Water incident at Rio Tinto Iron Ore in Australia and a crush incident at Zululand Anthracite Colliery in South Africa identified for divestment.
We provided Land support and counselling to the families and workmates affected by these Biodiversity events.
In addition, after each of these incidents, as is the custom at Non-managed operations and joint ventures Rio Tinto, we conducted in-depth investigations of the causes of these Economic contribution incidents and ensured that the conclusions were communicated across the Group to prevent similar events from recurring.
Omission from the issues covered in our report does not mean that the issue is not managed by the Group.
Please see our website for We measure progress toward our goal of zero injuries through the all injury additional information.
frequency rate AIFR, which includes data for employees and contractors.
At the end of 2011 our AIFR was 0.67, an improvement of two per cent over the last year.
14 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance Goals and targets Trends Progress to date Our safety goal is zero injuries and zero fatalities.
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency rate AIFR per Two per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate compared with 2010 200,000 hours worked.
and a 30 per cent reduction compared with 2008.
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 78 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. compared with 2008.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 10,000 employees 4.3 per cent decrease in the rate of employees potentially exposed to exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels between 2008 an average eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels compared a and 2013. with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 3.8 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2008 and 2013.
We are also targeting a further four per cent reduction by compared with 2008.
2015, to deliver an overall ten per cent reduction.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product between 2.7 per cent increase in our freshwater use per tonne of product compared 2008 and 2013. with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements who represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015.
Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management in 2011.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
Women represented 35 per cent of our 2011 graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions 21 per cent of our 2011 graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly-reported social 35 per cent of our operations have locally appropriate publicly reported performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the social performance indicators in place after two years.
economic development of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance a We mitigate the risk of hazardous noise exposure 85 decibels averaged over eight hours in the business through implementation of hearing conservation programmes, which includes the use of hearing protection.
However, reducing noise levels through engineering or similar solutions is our preferred approach.
The target is designed to drive noise reduction by means other than the reliance on hearing protection.
Performance data 2007-2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Social All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.67 0.69 0.81 0.95 1.21 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 11 21 38 47 22 Employees potentially exposed to an average eight hour noise dose of more than 85dB A per 10,000 employees 3,389 3,524 3,570 3,522 3,720 a Employees number 68,000 77,000 102,000 106,000 106,000 Environment b Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 96.2 96.2 92.7 100.0 NA c d Total energy use petajoules 516 513 496 556 540 e Freshwater used billion litres 443 439 413 448 NA Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,485 3,453 3,410 1,373 1,154 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 422 420 402 471 418 Direct economic contribution a, f Value add US$ million 38,193 33,812 21,363 28,412 17,241 a Payments to suppliers US$ million 28,444 27,486 23,481 29,653 16,277 Community contributions US$ million 294 166 119 140 107 Numbers corrected from those originally published following verification of data at selected operations.
The 2010 AIFR was previously reported as 0.66.
Numbers amended from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
Amendments due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
a These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
b Excluding the former Alcan operations, our greenhouse gas emissions intensity was 110.4 in 2007 compared to 113.2 in 2008. c Two thirds of our energy use in 2011 came from low greenhouse gas emitting hydro, nuclear and other renewable power sources.
d This figure includes former Alcan operations.
Excluding former Alcan operations our total energy use in 2007 was 266 petajoules.
e In 2007 we withdrew 411 billion litres of freshwater.
This includes freshwater that was extracted for ground control and discharged without use in our process.
f Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
com 15 Sustainable development continued we are developing new businesses.
Further information on diversity and Safety continued inclusion can be found on page 73 in the Corporate governance section.
The Group-wide safety risk management programme focuses equally on personal safety, process safety and major safety hazards, and we Our local employment commitments are often managed through directly have processes in place to manage each of these areas.
This includes negotiated community agreements.
Throughout 2011, we remained the TM the application of a Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA process largest private sector employer of Indigenous Australians who now which applies a structured approach to the identification and evaluation represent nine per cent of our Australian workforce.
of higher consequence lower frequency hazards.
The risk reduction TM Our Group-wide performance and talent management approach supports resulting from the SQRA process, along with the monitoring of critical consistent and transparent assessment of talent, drives performancecontrols, is used as a Group-wide leading indicator for safety performance.
focused culture and enables employees to articulate their career aspirations and development plans.
Health The nature of occupational illness is changing.
Illnesses such as stress, We offer our employees a rounded total rewards package, the principles fatigue, musculo-skeletal disorders, and the normal results of ageing of which are consistent across the Group, designed to be competitive, present different challenges to the traditional mining health issues.
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and appropriately balanced in favour of variable pay linked to performance.
Packages Our goal is no new cases of occupational illness.
We have occupational typically consist of salary, benefits, short and, where appropriate, long-term health performance standards coupled with our health and wellbeing incentive awards as well as providing the opportunity for many of our strategy to support this goal.
We implement these standards through people to acquire a stake in the Company through share ownership plans.
education, training, and the incorporation of fit-for-purpose systems and procedures.
In 2011, we continued with our frontline, operational, business and strategic leadership development programmes.
Approximately 870,000 We are targeting a 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of attendances were recorded for training in leadership, technical and occupational illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. operational skills, and health, safety, and environment courses during 2011.
In 2011, we achieved a 78 per cent improvement in performance compared with 2008, with significant decreases in the number of reported cases We use a number of communication tools to keep our employees informed of noise induced hearing loss 76 per cent, musculo-skeletal disorders of Group updates, news and announcements.
We also conduct and act 78 per cent and stress 76 per cent.
upon formal surveys that give our employees the opportunity to provide feedback on their experiences of the business and working environment.
We are also targeting a ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees Our third global employee engagement survey was completed in 2011. exposed to an average eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels Engagement levels have increased from 2010 and good progress has been between 2008 and 2013.
In 2011, the rate of employees potentially exposed made on improving understanding and support of the Groups vision and decreased by 4.3 per cent compared with 2008. values.
Action plans are being implemented in each business.
People Human rights In 2011, we employed 68,000 people, including the Groups share of As set out in our global code of business conduct, The way we work, and proportionately consolidated operations and equity accounted units.
our Human Rights policy, Rio Tinto respects human rights consistent with Of these approximately 26,000 were located in Australasia, 19,000 the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights www.
org in North America, 10,000 in Europe, and 8,000 in Africa.
See page 211 and we actively seek to ensure that we are not complicit in abuses.
for a breakdown of employees by business units.
We have voluntarily committed to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Our core values of accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity are Enterprises www.
org, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human expressed through the principles and standards of conduct set out in Rights www.
org and the UN Global Compact The way we work.
In line with our Employment policy, we seek safe and www.
org, participating in its Human Rights Working Group.
effective working relationships at all levels within the Group.
Rio Tinto engaged with the mandate of the UN Special Representative on We employ on the basis of job requirements and do not discriminate on Business and Human Rights.
We are reviewing our human rights approach grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, using the human rights due diligence process outlined in the UN Guiding religion or disability.
We do not employ forced, bonded or child labour.
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
We recognise the right of all employees to choose to belong to a union We also support the Danish Institute for Human Rights www.
dk and seek to bargain collectively.
We employ people with disabilities as it develops its Human Rights and Business Country Portal, a free website and make every effort to offer suitable alternative employment and helping business assess human rights country contexts.
retraining to employees who become disabled and can no longer perform their regular duties.
Training on our Human Rights policy is required every two years for general managers or above.
During 2010-2011, approximately 3,100 people New talent is essential to our business.
However, rapid growth in demand completed this training.
Experts such as the Danish Institute have also for skilled recruits, coupled with a reduced pool of mining schools graduates assisted with site-specific training.
We provide human rights training and increasing workforce expectations, is making competition for human to security personnel and have conducted security and human rights resources intense within the mining industry.
assessments at all critical risk sites.
It is important to represent the diversity of the regions and communities We seek to operate in a manner consistent with the UN Declaration on the in which we operate.
We encourage diversity in teams and seek to draw Rights of Indigenous Peoples and sovereign obligations.
However, the UN on the broad experiences and perspectives of our employees.
We foster Declaration contains broad statements of principle that are open to a range collaboration and understanding of different cultures by sharing people, of potentially conflicting interpretations.
We acknowledge that some sections skills and knowledge across the Group.
of the communities where we operate hold alternative views as to how the We are focused on increasing the representation of women and people UN Declaration should be applied in practice.
from nationalities which are under-represented in our workforce.
In 2011, We respect the land connection of indigenous communities and seek specific women represented 35 per cent of our graduate intake, 14 per cent of agreements with affected communities in the development and performance our senior management, and 18 per cent of our total workforce.
We strive to achieve the free, prior and informed consent of per cent of our graduate intake in 2011 were nationals from regions where 16 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance affected Indigenous peoples as described in the International Finance sales, we supplied 3,556 petajoules of world energy demand, seven times Corporations Performance Standards, updated in 2011. more than our energy use.
We face costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions or renewable Communities and social performance energy obligations in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, various US states We seek to understand the social, environmental and economic and Canadian provinces.
As a result, over 85 per cent of our operations implications of our activities on host communities.
By understanding are covered by existing or legislated carbon pricing legislation.
our interactions, we can optimise benefits and reduce negative impacts for communities and our operations alike.
Water Our Communities policy, performance standards and guidance notes provide We use water at every stage of our business for exploration, mining, the framework for our work with communities, including socioeconomic processing, smelting, refining, rehabilitation, generation of hydroelectric knowledge base, communities engagement, social impact assessment and power and drinking.
mitigation, communities planning and respect for cultural diversity.
This Each of our operations has its own set of water challenges: some are enables us to target the delivery of socioeconomic programmes reflecting located in water scarce environments where they compete with other users, the priorities of local communities, and to identify potential positive and whilst others need to manage a surplus from storms or groundwater.
The negative impacts of our operations.
We also use this information to facilitate quality of water can impact production, operating costs, nearby community economic participation and related activities.
In addition to direct economic contributions through salaries, wages, Our water strategy provides a framework for responsible stewardship taxes, royalties and local service and supply during 2011, our businesses by addressing water-related business risks and improving performance supported over 2,700 socioeconomic programmes covering a wide range across social, environmental, and economic aspects.
We focus on ways of activities such as health, education, business development, housing, to minimise the amount of water we remove from the environment, environmental protection and agricultural development.
In 2011 we spent reuse it whenever we can, and return it to the environment in ways that US$294 million on community assistance programmes.
We realise the introduction of a mining, smelting, or refining operation can In 2011, our freshwater withdrawal increased by 2.3 per cent to be disruptive and concerning to local communities, particularly where 524 billion litres.
We are targeting a six per cent reduction in our freshwater resettlement, land rights or areas of spiritual value are concerned.
We use per tonne of product between 2008 and 2013.
Between 2008 and 2011, apply leading industry practice in dealing with such matters and try to our freshwater use per tonne of product has increased by 2.7 per cent.
minimise and mitigate negative impacts.
The increase in freshwater use per tonne of product shows that the Group Our innovative communities target which we adopted in 2009 requires all freshwater use efficiency target is heavily influenced by aspects that are operations to have locally appropriate, publicly reported social performance not directly related to water efficiency or scarcity such as heavy rainfall indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic leading to increased water storage on site, and lower production at several development of the communities and regions where we work, consistent businesses.
Our approach to water usage is maturing to account better for with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
In 2011, 35 per cent of such site-specific factors and we are reviewing our water targets to reflect operations had these indicators in place.
better local or regional conditions.
Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use We work with national and international water policy development forums We accept the need for climate change action and recognise that this and also with organisations committed to sustainable water management is a great challenge and also an opportunity.
We support government such as the World Economic Forum water project and the World Business policies to deliver comprehensive, long-term responses that are efficient, Council on Sustainable Development water leadership group www.
effective and equitable but seek to maintain business competitiveness We also work to develop industry policies and practices as members of the during a period of global policy transition.
We seek to lower the greenhouse Minerals Council of Australia www.
gas emissions footprint of our products.
Land Our climate change programme is focused on reducing our emissions, Our land use stewardship standard requires our sites to develop understanding and developing low emission product pathways and management plans to promote an integrated and sustainable approach engaging with governments and stakeholders to advocate sound domestic to land management.
We manage just over 43,500 square kilometres of land globally, excluding We have reduced our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity our exploration leases.
At the end of 2011 our activities had impacted by 3.8 per cent between 2008 and 2011.
Our total GHG emissions were nine per cent of this area.
43.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2011, 0.3 million tonnes higher than in 2010.
In line with leading practice, we aim to rehabilitate land as it comes out of use rather than waiting until all operations have ceased.
In 2011, Rio Tinto is both an energy user and producer.
Our operations use 24 per cent of our disturbed land excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity, nuclear and fossil-fuel based power, coal, oil, diesel and hydroelectricity dams had been rehabilitated.
This year our energy use increased by 0.6 per cent to 516 petajoules.
We work with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew to develop strong working Two thirds of our energy use in 2011 came from low greenhouse gas emitting relationships with various research institutions to access the necessary hydro, nuclear and other renewable power sources.
Our hydroelectric power expertise to improve our rehabilitation performance.
As a member of ICMM, facilities in Canada, Scotland and Norway have a capacity of 3,972 MW.
we help to develop industry policies and practices on protected areas and To drive improvements in energy efficiency our businesses have set a range long-term access to land.
of local efficiency targets that cover nearly three quarters of the Groups energy use.
Our programmes focus on energy innovation at the early stages of project planning and building the capacity to identify, engineer and implement meaningful energy efficiency projects.
We remain a world leader in aluminium smelting technology development and are building our knowledge of renewable technologies.
Through our coal and uranium riotinto.
com 17 Sustainable development continued Production at Grasberg from September to December 2011 was impacted Biodiversity by strike action taken by PT Freeport Indonesia union workers related Biodiversity continues to be under threat globally.
We recognise the to the negotiation of the biennial Collective Labour Agreement.
A labour importance of conserving and responsibly managing biodiversity, agreement was reached in December 2011. both as an issue for business and for society.
The Grasberg mine employs controlled riverine tailings disposal, Our biodiversity strategy, which includes our goal of achieving a a process the World Bank does not consider as good industry practice, net positive impact NPI on biodiversity, addresses issues related on the basis that it is contrary to the International Finance Corporations to access to resources as well as closure obligations.
It provides 2007 Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining.
However, us with the tools required to help balance the potentially conflicting several independent expert reviews have concluded that riverine tailings actions of resource extraction and biodiversity conservation.
disposal represents the best practicable management method at Grasberg We work to refine tools and methodologies with leading conservation because of the extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and significant organisations, including BirdLife International www.
We continue to believe that this method is appropriate Flora and Fauna International www.
org, the International given these conditions.
Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN www.
org and the Royal Significant improvements have been made to limit the surface area Botanic Gardens, Kew www.
disturbed by tailings disposal, enhance retention within the engineered Development of an NPI verification protocol was progressed in partnership deposition area, minimise the geochemical risks posed by the tailings, with the IUCN to create a methodology that enables us to measure and protect adjacent river systems and rehabilitate inactive tailings surfaces.
demonstrate progress in achieving NPI.
In 2011, we continued to invest In addition, Freeport-McMoRan continues to evaluate alternative uses for in the development and implementation of biodiversity offsets, in response tailings, such as making cement to support local infrastructure projects.
to the increasing requirements by governments and lenders.
Economic contribution Rio Tinto was recognised as a leader for our approach in managing We use our expertise to harness resources and create prosperity for biodiversity risk in the 2011 Natural Value Initiative benchmarking report our shareholders, employees, communities, governments and on Biodiversity and ecosystem services risk and opportunity management business partners.
within the extractive industry www.
Globally direct economic contribution was US$66,637 million in 2011.
Non-managed operations and joint ventures This includes: Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint ventures that it does not US$38,193 million in value add, made up of labour, payments manage.
However, we engage as members of operating committees and to governments and returns to capital.
Because we believe that the principles in The way US$28,444 million as payments to suppliers.
we work are universal, in our dealings with joint venture partners and non-controlled companies we make every effort to ensure that those These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
standards of conduct are respected at all times.
Details of the payments to governments that are included in our direct Examples of our non-managed operations include the Escondida copper economic contribution are available in our report on Taxes paid in 2011. mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold mine in Indonesia.
Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed Assurance by BHP Billiton.
Our seats on the Owners Council allow us regular Our Corporate Assurance function has accountability and responsibility input on strategic and policy matters.
During 2011, Escondida production for providing assurance to the board that: was impacted mid-year by a 15 day strike.
Management and Union Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls are adequately designed representatives resolved matters and the operation returned to and effective for their intended purpose: and that normal operations.
These policies, standards and controls are consistently implemented A subsidiary of the mining company Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as designed.
Freeport-McMoRan, PT Freeport Indonesia, owns and operates the In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance organisation, Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia.
We are a participant in a joint venture  PwC, to provide the board of directors of interest attributable to the 1995 expansion of the mine, which entitles Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited assurance on selected sustainable us to a 40 per cent share of production above specified levels until 2021 development subject matter, as explained on the next page.
and 40 per cent of production after 2021.
We have the ability to engage and influence through our representation on the Operating Committee.
PwCs assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject matters one through four of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online Regrettably, there were five industrial fatalities at the Grasberg operation GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter five of in 2011.
There were two underground incidents resulting in three fatalities the ICMM procedure.
and two surface incidents resulting in two fatalities.
The operator of the Grasberg mine manages complex social, community and environmental issues.
There have also been instances of violence in areas near the mine, including a series of shooting incidents that have resulted in fourteen injuries and nine fatalities in 2011.
Freeport-McMoRan has responded with a stronger overall security presence, which includes enhanced security for both personnel and material transport to and from site.
Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and work together to ensure practice is consistent with these principles.
Rio Tinto continues to monitor the situation closely.
18 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report Performance Independent assurance report What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2011 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together Rio Tinto, Responsibilities  What we did Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement we performed.
on the selected subject matter within the Sustainable Development Rio Tinto Review section of the Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report for the year ended Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and presentation 31 December 2011. of the selected subject matter in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
Selected subject matter Rio Tintos assertion that it has incorporated the requirements of the What our work involved 10 Sustainable development principles of the International Council We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on on Mining and Metals ICMM and the mandatory requirements set Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements Other out in ICMM Position Statements into its own policies, strategies than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
This Standard and standards requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements Rio Tintos assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
to identify and prioritise its material sustainable development risks Main procedures performed and opportunities Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto Rio Tintos assertions regarding the existence and status of Evaluating the design of the key processes and controls for managing implementation of systems and approaches used to manage and reporting the performance data within the selected subject matter the following selected sustainable development risk areas: Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at both Safety an operational and corporate level, which included visits to a selection Greenhouse gas emissions of operations from across the Aluminium, Energy, Iron Ore, Copper and Energy use Diamonds & Minerals product groups Water Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected documentation supporting assertions made in the selected sustainable development risk areas: subject matter All injury frequency rate We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and Number of fatalities appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Total energy use Freshwater withdrawn Freshwater use per tonne of product percentage change from 2008 Liza Maimone  Reporting criteria Partner Melbourne The subject matter above has been assessed against the definitions 5 March 2012 and approaches which will be presented at www.
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation commissioning an independent assurance Inherent limitations Restriction on use report in connection with the selected Inherent limitations exist in all assurance This report has been prepared in accordance subject matter.
engagements due to the selective testing with our engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto of the information being examined.
Therefore in reporting its sustainable development Limited assurance fraud, error or non-compliance may occur performance.
We do not accept or assume This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited and not be detected.
Additionally, non-financial responsibility for the consequences of any assurance for our conclusions.
As a limited data may be subject to more inherent reliance on this report for any other purpose assurance engagement is restricted primarily limitations than financial data, given both its or to any other person or organisation.
to enquiries and analytical procedures and nature and the methods used for determining, Any reliance on this report by any third party the work is substantially less detailed than calculating and estimating such data.
is entirely at its own risk.
that undertaken for a reasonable assurance We consent to the inclusion of this report engagement, the level of assurance is lower in the Annual report to assist Rio Tintos than would be obtained in a reasonable members in assessing whether the directors assurance engagement.
have discharged their responsibilities by riotinto.
