corporate responsibility report At Ashtead we are committed to running our business in a responsible and sustainable way.
We have an obligation to ensure that our employees are safe and well looked after and that our business adheres to the highest ethical standards.
We also look to offer assistance to our customers in fulfilling their responsibility to ensure their own employees are safe when using the equipment they rent from us.
Alongside our equipment suppliers, we invest in providing information and training on the safe usage of our equipment.
Our employees are our greatest asset and we seek to provide them with access to industry leading training and development programmes, as well as competitive pay and benefits and a rewarding work environment.
In addition, we work hard to ensure that any negative impact of our operations on the environment is limited and we endeavour to contribute positively to the communities in which we operate our stores.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 35 corporate responsibility report We are committed to running our business in a responsible and sustainable way How we manage corporate responsibility Health and safety We manage our Group environmental, health and safety Because of the nature of our business, health and safety and risk management processes through our Group Risk concerns need to be at the heart of how we operate.
Committee which reports to the Group chief executive Our business involves frequent movement and and the Audit Committee.
This committee ensures that maintenance of large and heavy pieces of equipment.
the efforts of Sunbelt and A-Plant are coordinated so Rigorous safety processes are essential if we are to avoid that best practice in one business can be shared and accidents which could cause injury to our people and adopted by the other.
The Committee is chaired by an executive director of Ashtead Group plc, Our industry is subject to many legislative and regulatory obligations.
currently our Finance Director, Ian Robson, with its other members being: Some of these, as they relate to stricter health and safety requirements, help change the way equipment is procured on construction sites to the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk and safety teams: our advantage.
This is because what may quickly become onerous for contractors, where maintenance and safe operation of equipment may UK and US legal counsel: not be their prime or even secondary focus, is a fundamental part of our business.
We take our health and safety commitments extremely seriously the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards internal and believe that if our stores were to fail to adhere to the high standards operational audit teams: and we set in our policies and procedures, we might lose our competitive advantage as a leader in the equipment rental industry.
the Sunbelt board member to whom its legal counsel and safety director report.
Therefore, we have extensive programmes in place to develop and maintain safe working practices across the Group and to remind our The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, and through employees of the need to be safe at all times.
We also spend significant them the Board, with a comprehensive annual report on its activities time drawing our customers attention to the importance of these issues including details of the areas identified in the year as requiring for their own employees.
A copy of the relevant formal statement of improvement and the status of actions being taken to make the necessary Sunbelts and A-Plants policies on health and safety is required to be improvements.
In this way we are able to ensure that there is an effective displayed at each store.
We make a considerable annual investment in chain of command within the business in relation to environmental, ensuring that our rental equipment meets or exceeds the latest safety health and safety and risk management issues.
standards, as well as providing health and safety advice and materials, as and when required, along with each rental.
A-Plant has ISO 9001 the Quality Standard accreditation across all its operations as well as ISO 14001 Environmental management and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety management accreditations.
These certifications give confidence to the UKs largest customers who we find are most focused on site safety that we have in place the appropriate policies, training programmes, feedback and auditing and monitoring processes to minimise our impact on the environment and ensure the safety of our workforce.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 corporate responsibility report continued We maintain sizeable internal health and safety teams to ensure that Regular employee education and awareness training is, in our view, the the appropriate health and safety precautions are in place throughout most effective way of improving and sustaining safety standards across our business.
We track and analyse any incidents which occur to enable our businesses and both businesses continue to invest in providing these us to identify recurrent issues and implement preventative improvements programmes.
We also seek continually to educate our employees and our across our UK and US networks.
customers about new and improved methods to ensure employees operate in a safe environment.
The main way that we track health and safety across the business is by the number of reported incidents that occur during the course of our work.
As For example, over the last few years Sunbelt has sought to reduce reported above, this is also one of our key performance indicators.
Over employee incidents and injuries through a comprehensive combination the last year, Sunbelt excluding Empire had 388 reported incidents of proactive leadership training, enhanced safety programmes training, relative to an average workforce of 5,348 2010: 414 incidents relative to a and improved incident response investigation.
During the latter part of workforce of 5,675 whilst the UK had 281 incidents relative to an average 2010 11, the third instalment of the Safety Leadership Training Series workforce of 1,921 2010: 318 incidents relative to an average workforce was delivered to all store managers, district managers, regional vice of 1,976.
An incident for this purpose does not necessarily mean that an presidents, and select members of management from other departments employee was hurt or injured.
Rather, it represents an event that we track such as, but not limited to, equipment service and transportation and report for monitoring and remedial purposes under our health and dispatch.
The purpose of this training was to reinforce the role our safety management policies.
operational leaders hold in establishing and enhancing a Culture of Safety and to ensure they are equipped to fulfil this role.
In addition, a refresher Legislation in the US and UK defines reportable incidents under rules course on Decision Driving has been rolled out to all Sunbelt drivers and which differ between the two countries.
Under these definitions which store managers to reinforce safe driving practices.
generally encompass more incidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt excluding Empire had 184 OSHA Occupational Safety and Health In the UK, we concentrated this year on improving safety particularly Administration recordable incidents 2010: 231 incidents which, relative amongst our delivery truck drivers, by monitoring speeds remotely to total employee hours worked, gave a Total Incident Rate of 2.72 and fitting speed limiters to all newly acquired vehicles.
In the UK, A-Plant had 40 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, weekly reports on driver behaviour and are working to increase awareness Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 reportable of the importance of safe driving within legal speed limits.
In addition, all incidents 2010: 63 which, relative to total employee hours worked, new drivers are required to attend a 4 day training programme at our gave a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.95 2010: 1.52. own driver training centre in Nottingham.
The work done so far has significantly reduced accidents leading to lower repair and insurance costs In the US, an OSHA recordable incident is one where medical attention as well as reducing the risk of serious on-road accident and injury.
more extensive than simple first aid is required whereas in the UK a RIDDOR reportable incident as defined by the UK Health and Safety Executive is an incident which results in the injured employee being unable to complete his normal duties or being off work for more than three days.
In order to compare accident rates between the US and UK, Sunbelt also applies the UK RIDDOR definition to its accident population which gave a figure this year of 115 RIDDOR recordable accidents in the US.
On a like-for-like basis in the year ended April 2011, Sunbelt therefore had a RIDDOR recordable accident rate of 0.85, slightly better than A-Plants rate of 0.95.
Incident rates RIDDOR basis 2009 2011 2.0 1.5 1.0 Vehicle Fall Protection System Another initiative in recent years in the UK was the development 0.5 and launch of our Vehicle Fall Protection System VFPS to protect our drivers when loading and unloading equipment from our delivery trucks.
The need for this arises because in the UK it is 0.0 typical to use raised bed delivery trucks whereas, in the US, low 09 10 11 loaders are more typically used for equipment deliveries.
VFPS Sunbelt A-Plant comprises a walkway down each side of the vehicle, allowing the driver to safely load equipment when it is of similar width to the vehicle and is simple to deploy.
VFPS is already getting a good We are pleased to report that this year our UK incident rate has decreased response within the industry and is further evidence of our to levels consistent with previous experience.
As we reported at the time, commitment to the health and safety of our staff.
the increase in UK incidents last year did not reflect a reduced focus on health and safety matters: however it is reassuring that previous norms have now been regained.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 37 Ethics Sunbelt Employee Relief Fund Ashtead aims to have the highest ethical standards in its The Sunbelt Rentals Employee Relief Fund originated as a operations and has a Group-wide ethics policy which is NationsRent initiative and was set up in 2004 after Hurricane communicated though Sunbelts and A-Plants employee Charley severely affected a number of NationsRent employees and their families.
It has now become part of our long-term communication programmes to all employees.
strategy to assist our people through catastrophic financial In addition we have a Group entertainment policy which sets out hardship.
The Fund is a public charity so contributions from expectations in this area.
Both businesses have in place whistle blowing employees, other individuals and businesses are tax deductible.
arrangements, by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns Any employee who has been affected by a natural disaster or who about any alleged improprieties.
We have extensive training and induction is affected by any other catastrophic event such as terminal illness programmes to ensure our staff receive the appropriate training and within their family, severe accident, trauma, fire or other loss that briefing on relevant ethics-related policies.
has caused financial hardship can apply for assistance from the Fund.
Applications are then assessed by the Fund Awards Advisory This year we have completed extensive training in preparation for the new Panel which makes an award recommendation based on the loss UK Bribery Act.
We rolled out our Competing Fairly training in December sustained and the funds available.
2010 in both our UK and US businesses and we believe that all relevant staff circa 2,000 employees undertook the training.
All new relevant employees will be required to undertake the training and it is likely that there will be annual refresher training for all those who have taken the Employees training to date.
We are a service business and we differentiate ourselves by the strength of our service offering.
Our employees are a key component of our competitive advantage because they provide our high levels of customer service.
At 30 April 2011, we had 8,100 employees across the Group, 6,200 in the US and 1,900 in the UK.
Reward and benefits We place enormous value on the welfare and job satisfaction of our employees.
Our staff are rewarded through a combination of competitive pay and attractive incentive programmes.
These help us attract and retain good people.
In addition to their core benefits, including pension and life insurance arrangements, our UK staff enjoy a wide range of personal benefits known as the Advantages programme through which they can get discounts on a wide range of products and services.
Both businesses have an employee assistance helpline which offers free confidential support and advice to those in need.
Building the Ronald McDonald House in Charlotte, NC Staff turnover There are more than 280 Ronald McDonald Houses operating worldwide offering support and care to families struggling with % sick children.
With two major childrens hospitals within a few 25 miles of each other, Charlotte, the headquarters of Sunbelt in the US, was an ideal place for a new Ronald McDonald House.
20 Sunbelt has been the sole rental equipment provider for the new centre and has donated more than $164,000 of equipment 15 rentals to date.
10 5 0 09 10 11 Sunbelt A-Plant Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 corporate responsibility report continued Our employees benefit from extensive on-the-job training schemes and Training are incentivised to deliver superior performance and customer service.
We Having a skilled and qualified workforce provides us with differential pride ourselves on many of our staff remaining with us throughout their advantages in the equipment rental business.
We pride ourselves on careers, something which is increasingly uncommon.
Several of our most having a highly skilled workforce with particular emphasis placed on senior staff started out at entry level within our stores and their continuity the responsibilities of our store managers and workshop foremen to of employment is testament to our focus on employee development.
There are also each year a number of more continue to take action consistently through the year to maintain and formal initiatives, some of which have already been referred to earlier in develop arrangements aimed at involving employees in the Groups affairs.
For example, regular meetings are held at stores to discuss performance and enable employees to input into ways of improving performance and service levels.
Recruitment The recession of the last few years has meant that our recruitment levels have been lower than before, except for our UK apprenticeship programme which is discussed further below.
That situation is now changing both in the US and in the UK and we anticipate recruitment levels rising once again as it is probably inevitable that we shall see some increase in staff turnover as the economy improves.
In the UK we are now able to recruit extensively through http: www.
jobs whilst similar web-based application routes are being evaluated for the US.
Diversity and equal opportunities We are committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all our staff, as well as to prioritising employment diversity.
We use numerous recruiting sources including, but not limited to, local community agencies and contacts, minority and womens organisations, colleges and job fairs.
In the UK, we predominantly recruit from the areas immediately around our facilities.
This meant that we were well prepared to meet the local Apprenticeship programme recruitment requirements that we signed up to when we were appointed We believe that A-Plants apprenticeship programme is one of the a rental provider to the Olympic site in east London.
most successful in our industry and it is one which we have We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing protected in the last three years of cost reduction.
This year employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training and career we recruited 24 apprentices, split into three categories plant development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
We do not maintenance apprentices, customer service apprentices and discriminate against any individual on the basis of a protected status, such driver apprentices and now have 57 apprentices in all.
During as sex, colour, race, religion, native origin or age.
Ours is by its nature still a the programme the plant maintenance apprentices undertake predominantly male workforce given that work at our rental stores often some residential training in modules offered by A-Plants training involves lifting heavy equipment, but nonetheless, we have women at all partner, Reaseheath College in Cheshire.
We believe we have levels in both the US and UK.
For example, we have 10 female store one of the highest apprentice retention rates in the industry with managers and 12 female sales executives in the UK, as well as three typically over 85% of those graduating from the programme women on our apprenticeship programme.
In the US, amongst our still employed one year after completing their training.
management team, our finance director, HR director, head of risk and our legal counsel are all women.
We also have eight female store managers and 106 female sales executives.
We are committed to providing excellent training and career paths for all employees who work at Ashtead.
Sunbelt University In the US, while we do not have an apprenticeship programme, we have In the US we are required by law to monitor ethnicity in our workforce very broad-based ongoing training for staff.
For example, our Sunbelt every year and maintain a diverse workforce.
This year, in the UK, as part University offers over 150 different online training modules for staff to of our move towards online recruitment, we are also beginning to gather complete.
In the US this year we began implementing a Sales Leadership ethnicity data as part of the recruitment process.
We are committed to Foundation programme for senior store and district leadership to improve providing opportunities for people from all ethnic groups and in both the consistency in our sales processes and encourage more open dialogue geographies we have good representation from ethnic minorities across and communication to increase sales.
The programme includes a series of the organisation.
In the UK, both A-Plants chief executive and its five key sales management sessions following which the participants marketing director are of Asian descent.
extend what they have learned across the whole sales team in their district.
In addition, before the recent change in UK law which removes the default retirement age of 65 comes into full effect, we already by agreement have a number of staff working beyond 65 and expect that to increase in the future.
In the US, there is already no set retirement age.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 39 Whilst these emission levels are low relative to our revenue and employee Environment numbers, we recognise that most of our emissions are generated by our The Group is committed to taking reasonable actions to delivery truck fleet in transporting our equipment to customers job sites.
minimise the risk of adverse impact on the environment Our customers expect and pay for this delivery but we are working on a number of initiatives to help us cut our emission levels, such as the vehicle from our business.
We achieve this by a policy of speed reduction measures mentioned earlier.
In addition, on big, long-term investing in: construction sites, we are increasingly placing pools of our equipment at the job site enabling equipment to be sourced on site and thereby the regular renewal of our rental fleets to ensure that the equipment we provide to our customers incorporates the latest environmental design reducing the sites overall transportation needs.
We have also invested in developing the Auto Tool Hire Unit described on page 12, which allows the available from our chosen manufacturers: our network of stores to ensure that they are adequately equipped to storage of smaller tools at the job site.
Both these on-site initiatives reduce the need for item-by-item delivery to the job site thereby helping operate in a safe and secure way, protective of the environment.
Key matters which are addressed in this programme are: wash-down bays to cut distribution emissions.
to collect and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and We have also made good progress this year in the UK on reducing our clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths and spray waste to landfill by significantly increasing the amount of waste that goes shops to ensure that repainting of equipment can be conducted safely to recycling.
and securely: bunded fuel tanks and designated spill areas to ensure secure fuelling of our fleet and, where relevant, vehicles.
We also seek to ensure proper arrangements are made, through the use of reputable vendors, for the collection and disposal of waste fuels and oils, tyres and other old or broken parts released as we service and maintain our rental fleets: Geoff Drabble a modern and efficient delivery truck fleet which enables us to ensure Chief executive that our vehicles are purchased with regard for good emissions 15 June 2011 management and fuel efficiency: and ensuring, wherever practicable, that we control noise in and around our depots so as not to unduly impact the communities immediately surrounding them.
We also support the initiatives of the Carbon Disclosure Project in the management of harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
We participate in its annual survey and report on our carbon dioxide emissions in line with Defra guidelines.
Across the Group our estimated total CO emissions in 2 the year to 30 April 2011 were 165,000 tonnes 2010: 181,000 tonnes.
This comprised 141,000 tonnes at Sunbelt 2010: 155,000 tonnes and 24,000 tonnes for A-Plant 2010: 26,000 tonnes.
