30 Business review Environment Sustainability Our environment strategy focuses on three key areas: 1. maintain our drive to reduce the environmental impact of all our business activities: 2. further reduce the environmental impact of our products: and We remain committed to working with all our 3. develop entirely new low emission and renewable energy products.
stakeholders to develop new approaches and technologies that will help provide solutions to 1.
Maintain our drive to reduce the environmental impact of all our business activities sustainable economic growth.
Greenhouse gas emissions We recognise the need to reduce the global greenhouse gas emissions GHG within our operations.
For the past two years individual reduction We are striving to power a better world and targets and budgets have been agreed for our top 25 energy consuming sites.
This has resulted in a further five per cent reduction normalised on recognise that we have a key part to play.
We 1 turnover during 2011 in total GHG emissions including product test and will continue to invest for the long term: we development.
Emissions from our facilities excluding product test and development have reduced by six per cent since 2009 compared with our have a strong track record of innovation, and 2 five per cent reduction target by 2012.
In absolute terms, total GHG a long-standing commitment to research and emissions have increased to 586.5 kt CO e scope 1 and 2.
2 1 Following further validation in 2012, the Group GHG emissions for 2009 have been re-stated.
Our sustainability programmes 2 Energy GHG data for 2011 has been forecast based on data collected during January to October 2011.
For details of the methodology see our Basis of Reporting available at www.
address: the environment: our people: and, the communities in which we operate.
In 2011, we invested over 3.5 million in energy improvement projects including the upgrade of lighting, boiler controls and metering.
Our new facility at Seletar received the Singapore governments Building Construction Authority BCA Green Mark Platinum award in construction, for having a reduced environmental footprint.
2011 Progress on certification Rolls-Royce continues to maintain accredited third-party certification to Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index BitC ISO 14001 for its environmental management systems, achieving full The BitC Index assesses the extent to which corporate strategy is global re-certification in 2011. integrated into business practice throughout an organisation.
In 2011, Rolls-Royce retained its Gold status with an overall score of 91 per cent.
We also scored 94 per cent in the Environmental Index component of the overall survey.
Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes DJSI Rolls-Royce has retained its position in the DJSI for the tenth consecutive year, with an overall score of 78 per cent aviation and defence sector average 49 per cent.
Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Rolls-Royce continues to be one of the leading companies in the CDP Index.
Although our disclosure score in 2011 was lower than the previous year 75 vs 79 per cent in 2010 we remain committed to improving and reporting the carbon footprint of our operations.
The green roof of our manufacturing facility in Singapore gained a BCA award for environmental construction.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
