31 Business review For more information on sustainability go online: Sustainability www.
com sustainability Global supply chain In 2011, we led Global and Regional Supplier Forums, which focused on near-term and long-term improvements.
We also hosted regional supplier groups, culminating in a global best practice sharing event aimed at promoting the application of lean techniques across the supply chain.
Further reduce the environmental impact of our products We believe that we can make a significant contribution to mitigating emissions by providing increasingly efficient products worldwide.
We benefit from independent expert advice from an Environmental Advisory Board made up of distinguished academics who are leading authorities in their respective fields to inform business strategy and design process.
In 2011, the Group renewed its commitment, now extended to 2050, in taking a leading role in the goals set by the Advisory Council for Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe ACARE.
These challenging goals include: Nuclear generation delivers low carbon power.
Rolls-Royce has extensive reducing aircraft CO emissions by 75 per cent per passenger kilometre 2 knowledge of nuclear safety and I&C technology.
reducing noise by 65 per cent: and 90 per cent reduction in oxides of nitrogen NOx relative to the year 2000.
Nuclear power will represent an important component of future lowThe environmental improvements already achieved by the Trent 900 and carbon electricity generation.
We have substantial experience in this area 1000 engines for the Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 respectively, and in gained through supplying power systems for the Royal Navy nuclear future the Trent XWB for the Airbus A350 XWB, will help us make progress submarine fleet for many decades.
Our core capabilities in safety and I&C meeting our contribution towards the ACARE goals.
will enable the Group to provide solutions in this area that will help address the requirements for low or zero carbon power generation.
Chart shows target of 20% lower CO 2 Trent family ACARE target Trent 895 0 Our people Trent 500 -5 Trent 900 Our working environment We seek to create an inclusive working environment that attracts and -10 Trent 1000 retains the best people, enhances their flexibility, capability and motivation, and encourages them to be involved in the ongoing success -15 Trent XWB of the Group.
-20 The organisation is experiencing a period of significant change as we grow and invest globally.
We continue to place great value on giving a voice to 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 our workforce and engage with our employees in many ways throughout Advisory Council for Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe the world to ensure they are kept informed of changes that may impact them.
For example, employee opinions are obtained via a two-year rolling In the marine segment, the Rolls-Royce Environship concept, received the engagement programme and improvement activities are then embedded prestigious Next Generation Ship award at the Nor-Shipping event held into local and corporate business planning activities.
In addition we have in, Norway.
The Rolls-Royce Bergen B-Series lean-burn gas engines, as used established communication channels which provide updates on key in the Environship, emit around 20 per cent less CO than comparative 2 business changes and activities.
The use of gas fuelled engines means that NOx emissions are reduced by about 90 per cent and SOx emissions are negligible.
These Rolls-Royce employs 40,400 people in more than 50 countries.
Our emissions already meet the International Maritime Organisation legislation workforce is dispersed globally across our business segments as follows: due to come into force in 2016. Business segments average number of employees 2011 3.
Develop entirely new low emission and renewable energy products Employees The Group is investing in other renewable energy sources such as tidal Civil aerospace 20,600 power, working in partnership with the UK Energy Technologies Institute.
Defence aerospace 6,800 In addition, we are working with customers and fuel companies to ensure Marine 9,400 that future biofuels, which will be part of the solution for aviation towards Energy 3,600 2050, meet our requirements, with the important caveats that they are Total 40,400 sustainable, do not compete with the growth of food crops and are used in the most effective way to maximise the reduction in GHG emissions.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review 32 Business review Sustainability Ethics The Global Code of Business Ethics Global Code supports the Groups approach to business conduct and defines its ethical principles and behaviours.
Internal and external assessments of the Global Code during 2011 confirmed that it represents best-in-class standards.
During the year, the Group completed a review of its anti-bribery and corruption related policies and procedures.
This review considered applicable law, including the UK Bribery Act, which came into force on July 1, 2011.
We also put in place a compliance organisation, led by a Chief Compliance Officer.
We issued a number of new and updated global polices in multiple languages including: raising concerns, conflicts of interest, competitive intelligence and, sponsorships and charitable donations.
Training was developed to support these as required.
Rolls-Royce actively supports aerospace and defence industry initiatives to Our graduate recruitment team won the award for best graduate recruiter drive responsible business behaviour in the sector.
We are represented on in the Engineering Sector at the TARGETjobs awards.
These UK national awards are voted entirely by students via an online poll.
the Business Ethics Committee of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe ASD and we are one of the international companies on the task force managing the International Forum for Business Ethics IFBEC, a body which brings together US and European The Group is committed to developing a diverse workforce and equal aerospace and defence companies to share best practice and develop opportunities for all.
Our policy is to provide, wherever possible, common standards.
employment training and development opportunities for disabled people.
We are committed to supporting employees who become disabled Encouraging diversity during employment and helping disabled employees make the best use Our global governance framework for diversity includes a senior executive of their skills and potential.
Global Diversity Steering Group that provides leadership and shapes strategic direction.
Learning During 2011, we provided over 3,500 learning solutions to our employees During 2011, our most senior executives have been reverse mentored by a from all of our 57 countries, resulting in 35,500 employees undertaking colleague who is junior to them in the organisation.
The reverse mentors more than 105,000 days of learning.
We also built new Learning and are a diverse group in terms of gender, nationality, business, function and Development Centres in Singapore and lesund, Norway.
The centres will their working location.
The aim is to give senior executives a different deliver training to both customers and employees in the regions.
perspective from a colleague who can share diverse experiences and ideas.
Learning investment for 2011 was 38 million.
Lord Davies of Abersoch, on behalf of the UK Government, outlined a number of recommendations in 2011 to improve gender diversity in UK Recruitment boardrooms.
We will take opportunities to increase diversity at Board level, In 2011, over 2,500 experienced professionals were recruited to support the and have committed to make demonstrable progress on this by 2015. growth of our business, more than double the previous year.
More than 50 per cent were recruited from outside of the UK and 34 per cent came Overall female representation across our global workforce is 15 per cent, from countries outside the UK US.
We ran major recruitment campaigns seven per cent at the senior executive level and six per cent in our Group across engineering, manufacturing and purchasing and these constituted Leadership Team GLT.
Approximately two thirds of our workforce is in the majority 61 per cent of our hiring in 2011. engineering or manufacturing roles where female representation has been historically low.
We continue to counter this through active During 2011, more than 400 young graduates joined Rolls-Royce.
Our involvement in education outreach along with recruitment and campus teams actively engaged with more than 60 universities in the UK, development planning in order to maximise the potential of diverse talent Europe, Asia, and Americas and we recruited 242 graduates up nine per across our global business.
We are encouraged by some of the progress cent on to our graduate programme from 43 universities and 25 nations we are making in graduate recruitment where female representation has globally.
We have plans to significantly increase our graduate programme steadily increased over recent years.
25 per cent of participants in our size to 389 60 per cent increase in 2012 to accommodate our long-term graduate development programmes are female and this increases growth objectives.
significantly in functions outside of engineering and manufacturing.
In addition, we recruited 295 apprentices in Europe and were awarded top We participate in the FTSE 100 Cross Company Mentoring Programme, the 100 apprenticeship employer status in the UK.
objective of which is for the chairmen and chief executives to provide advice and guidance to senior females with the aim of attaining a Health and safety at work non-executive and or an executive director role.
Our Chairman is a mentor Over the past five years our focus on improving our health, safety and and three of our female executives have participated to date.
environment HS&E performance has resulted in the number of significant injuries that occur each year being almost halved from 1.31 total reportable injuries TRI per 100 employees in 2006, to 0.66 TRI per 100 employees in 2011.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011
