33 Business review For more information on sustainability go online: Sustainability www.
com sustainability Performance improvement is delivered through the implementation policies: and renewable energy.
We contributed to the development of the of a focused global HS&E strategy covering: leadership: capability: Commissions proposal for Horizon 2020 a new Research and Innovation management systems: risk: assurance: learning from incidents and funding framework for 2014-2021, and also Flightpath 2050 Europes informed decision making.
As part of a global safety programme, we have invested more than Community investment 20 million to further enhance the safety standards of our machinery.
More Rolls-Royce has a firm, long-standing commitment to the communities than 11,000 machines have been reviewed worldwide and for around in which we operate around the world.
During 2011, the Groups total 2,500 machines, opportunities to enhance safety still further were identified contributions including money, employee time and gifts in kind were such as improving guarding and the fitting of additional safety features.
A global programme of review and corrective action is also underway to Our community investment activities support the Groups strategy and improve our control of lifting operations.
Similarly, a global programme to future success, particularly in the areas of: recruitment and employee improve process safety management is focusing on our management of retention, employee engagement, professional development and the operational processes with hazards.
Groups reputation in the community.
Leading excellence in HS&E workshops have been held with leadership During the year, the Group approved a new global charitable contributions teams from all of our sectors and businesses.
Leadership in Action days and social sponsorships policy and procedure, confirming our major areas were also held for some 700 senior leaders with HS&E being one of the of support as: topics covered.
education and skills, particularly in the areas of STEM which are key to our future success: environment, adding value to the Groups environment strategy: social investment, making a positive difference to the communities Engaging with our communities in which we operate: arts and culture, contributing to the cultural vibrancy in geographic Working with governments areas in which we operate: and Rolls-Royce seeks to build strategic relationships with host governments in requests relating to the Groups business such as armed services our key market countries.
Governments are often our direct customers.
They set the legislative and policy framework within which our business must be conducted.
They are a potential source of funding and support The new policy and procedure also sets out a clear structure for global for R&T, R&D, manufacturing, education and training initiatives, as well as governance, ensuring consistency of approach and global visibility of for certain capital projects.
And finally, on occasion, they support or contributions.
sponsor our partners, suppliers and competitors.
2011 charitable contributions and sponsorships, and payroll giving We engage in dialogue and negotiation to try to align the business needs m of Rolls-Royce with the political, social, economic, industrial and Charitable contributions and social sponsorships commercial requirements of the national government.
Where we can UK 2.1 achieve such alignment, for example in Singapore, the benefits for both Asia and Middle East 0.3m, Americas 0.7m, Europe 0.6m 1.6 the Group and the country can be considerable.
Commercial sponsorship 0.7 Employee time 2.6 On March 6, 2011, we hosted a meeting of the UK Cabinet in Derby.
Gifts in kind 0.1 Sir John Rose addressed the Cabinet before their meeting and later that Total 7.1 day, Prime Minister David Cameron performed the official opening of the Payroll giving UK 0.5m and North America 0.3m 0.8 new technology centre on site.
On October 25 and 26, 2011, Rolls-Royce along with the University of Sheffield and Boeing led a series of high profile events in Westminster to highlight the importance of high-value manufacturing.
These events generated considerable interest from Government Ministers, Parliamentarians and officials.
7.1m With a majority of legislation affecting our European operations emanating from the European Union, we are now building extra capacity in our EU The Groups total contributions Affairs team.
Throughout 2011, our key challenge in the EU has been to monitor the EU legislation on financial regulatory reform and its impact on and sponsorships the real economy and potential unintended consequences for nonfinancial companies like Rolls-Royce.
Other policy areas have also required our attention, such as the inclusion of marine emissions in EUs GHG commitment: new noise regulation in the field of aviation: alternative fuel Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Business review
