OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued of small manual operators.
The division has I am pleased to welcome two new members a strong pipeline of product introductions of the Rotork Management Board, Mark scheduled for 2012 and in common with Williams, Global HR Director and Pamela the other divisions is actively working on a Bingham, Group Business Development nuclear qualified range of products.
I am looking forward to working with both of them in achieving the strategic RIDEC, the Groups centralised development aims of the Group.
I am also pleased to resource based in Chennai, India, has welcome Phil Burness to the company.
continued to grow during 2011 and was Phil will be responsible for the Rotork Site engaged in joint developments with all Services business and replaces Grant Wood, divisions.
We are planning to double its size who was appointed Divisional Managing during 2012 following the move to the new Director for Rotork Controls in March 2011. building which will also include a dedicated test facility.
During the year we welcomed 370 people into the Rotork family and we now have During the year the Group has also begun a 2,500 staff in 31 countries.
209 people project to evaluate computer based Product joined Rotork as part of the six acquisitions Lifecycle Management tools that together that we completed and 161 were recruited with our other CAD investments should due to growth in our existing locations.
It is bring improvements in efficiency and aid a privilege for me to have visited so many both cross-divisional and multi-site working.
offices during the year and to have met such a dedicated team of people.
I was very proud OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE to open our new factory in India and see the Our commitment to product excellence reaction from staff as they received a guided and exceeding customer expectations is tour of the new building.
It is down to the hard a fundamental part of Rotorks strategy.
A work and dedication of our staff that we are quality-driven focus is embedded in all our able to report record results and I would like business processes, from procurement and to thank everyone for what they do every day to make this such a great company.
vendor approval, through to manufacture and delivery, and extends into our site service activities.
All Rotork manufacturing sites CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY are required to adopt Rotork systems and We see Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as an area which needs to be working practices and to maintain a quality management system registered to ISO 9001. embedded in all aspects of our business and should be continually improved.
To Our matrix management structure allows achieve this Rotork has one main CSR Committee and four Sub-Committees who us to disseminate best practice between our businesses and foster a culture of each focus on one of the following areas: health & safety, the environment, ethics continuous improvement at all levels, which is reviewed in regular quality audits.
More information about the progress that is being made and new allow us to target, monitor and improve our performance and instil an approach that is initiatives taken are set out in pages 28 to 34. focused on the customer.
During 2011 we continued to measure Techniques such as six sigma and lean manufacturing principles are used extensively our impact on the environment and the data gathered includes energy and and allow us to leverage world-class standards and place ourselves at the leading water consumption, waste generation and recycling and business travel.
We edge of product quality and performance.
encourage open communication with employees, customers, suppliers and OUR PEOPLE At the end of November we completed other stakeholders in order to continually develop the business and achieve our our annual Employee Satisfaction Survey.
Although 188 more people completed the CSR objectives.
The workshop in Norway, busy motorising survey, the response rate fell to 73% from valves with IQ actuators for the Oseberg last years 78%.
The overall satisfaction score We have continued to develop our offshore platform project charitable work with the Group and of 3.5 has remained at a similar high level for a number of years despite improvements employees, contributing 179,000 to global charities.
WaterAid has continued to being seen in a number of areas.
We have used the same questionnaire now for several be our main Global Charity with 109,000 donated during 2011. years and feel that it is time to review the list of questions and reinvigorate the process for the 2012 survey.
ROTORK P. L. C. 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Designing in Quality Customers trust Rotork to deliver high quality flow control products that meet their specific requirements.
Rotork makes sure that every product that is manufactured is well designed, built and tested before it is installed on a customer site.
ROTORK P. L. C. 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
