NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 a.
Accounting policies continued Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided in full, without discounting, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law, except for the items explained below.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the assets or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit those earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Personnel expenses in the Company Profit and Loss Account 2011 2010 Wages and salaries including bonus and incentive plans 2,256 1,594 Social security costs 237 304 Pension costs 295 192 Share-based payments 376 235 3,164 2,325 There are eight 2010: seven employees of Rotork p. l. c. plus the four 2010: four executive directors.
The personnel costs accounted for within the Company include the full costs of the employees and the Group Finance Director but not the full costs of other executive directors.
Upon the appointment of a Divisional Managing Director for the Controls Division all of the Group Chief Executives costs have been reported within the Company.
The two other executive directors are reported within the subsidiary where they are based.
Share-based payments The share-based payment charge relates to employees of the Company participating in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The disclosures required under FRS 20 can be found in note 24 to the Group Financial Statements.
The table below sets out the movement of share options under the LTIP for employees of the Company.
The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year.
ROTORK P. L. C. 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
