CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the CSR Committee has the following sub-committees covering health & safety, the environment, ethics and social issues.
ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS HEALTH & SAFETY SOCIAL ISSUES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chaired by the Group Operations Chaired by the Group Chaired by the Group Operations Chaired by the Director.
The Environmental Legal Director, the Director.
The Health & Safety Global HR Director, Committee has responsibility for: Ethics Committee has Committee has responsibility for: the Social Issues responsibility Committee has The Environmental Management for the development Reviewing all accident and responsibility for: System of Group ethics incident reports Review of all incident reports policies and Management of Group health & Social issue policies Review of environment audit reports procedures.
safety HR policies Reviewing legislative changes Reviewing legislative change The committee uses Resource The Committee includes a qualified Futures as the Groups Environmental health & safety professional.
The diagram above sets out the Groups safety, the environment, ethics and social Corporate Social Responsibility structure.
The Chief Executive reports to the Rotork Management Board and the Board Each year Rotork summarises its Corporate of Directors on CSR matters.
Social Responsibility and reports on the progress that has been made during The Committees act as a focal point for the year and highlights new initiatives further development of the subject matter in this area.
We hope that through such within their remit.
Underlying all their work Effective disclosure we can enhance the trust people is a determination to embed the Groups place in Rotork, its products and services CSR values within all its activities.
communication and ensure we continue to attract and retain the best people throughout the with all of our These values are contained in our world, including the next generation of vision and mission statement which can stakeholders Rotork leaders.
Effective communication be found at www.
com in the with all of our stakeholders ensures we investors section under Our Strategy ensures we obtain obtain feedback which in turn can be used to evaluate and improve our CSR Improvements since implementation of this feedback which in performance.
updated structure include a revised ethics turn can be used and values statement, a reduced water Rotork believes that responsible business consumption rate and the introduction is the best business.
It can benefit our to evaluate and of an annual global charity together with operational effectiveness and develop and the launch of local charity committees at grow our industry leading products and improve our CSR most of our overseas subsidiaries.
Rotork services as well as build on the trust of recognises that the Global Compact is a stakeholders.
performance continuing commitment and is engaged in further work in environmental and We have been participants of the United labour issues which will lead to a further Nations Global Compact since 2003 performance improvement.
and are continually striving to embed its principles into our everyday operations as Inclusion in the FTSE4Good index further part of our ongoing commitment to CSR.
demonstrates our strong commitment to Since joining the Global Compact, we have CSR.
FTSE4Good assesses its constituents made many improvements in a wide range on environmental management, climate of CSR areas.
We now have a developed change, human and labour rights, CSR structure including a CSR Committee supply chain labour standards, corporate chaired by the Chief Executive with subgovernance and countering bribery.
We committees currently covering health & ROTORK P. L. C. 28 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 have also taken account of the guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE on social responsibility issued by the Systems and procedures are in place to Association of British Insurers and take gather environmental performance data full account of ethical matters in business and enter the data onto a web based conduct and risk assessment processes.
The data gathered includes energy and water consumption, waste As a global business manufacturing generation and recycling and business products used in a wide range of industries travel.
In addition, all Rotork manufacturing including water, power and oil & gas, companies are required to separately report we recognise that we affect a significant usage of volatile organic compounds VOC number of individuals and businesses and refrigerants HFC.
Through Global Compact, FTSE4Good, ISO 9000 and the other This years report includes performance benchmarks we use, we set an example of data from Flow-Quip and Hiller, both good, responsible and effective business.
located in the USA and acquired in 2009 and 2010 respectively.
The 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL acquisitions will be included in the 2012 The Groups environmental policy report.
applies to the Company and all its subsidiaries worldwide.
The policy includes ENERGY CONSUMPTION commitments to the prevention of Rotork operates an assembly only pollution, compliance with all relevant legal philosophy in all but three of its business and regulatory requirements and to the units relying on specialist suppliers for continuous improvement of environmental most of its manufactured components.
The policy was reviewed, In all facilities energy is used for IT systems, revised and reissued in July 2011. lighting, heating and cooling.
Exceptions are Rotork Gears BV Losser, Rotork Sweden Falun, and Rotork Valvekits UK The Group environmental policy can be found at www.
com in the Nottingham where machine processes investors section under Corporate are in operation.
In other facilities test Social Responsibility Environment.
equipment is used to ensure the product meets customer operational requirements.
This test equipment can consume large In support of the above policy, Rotorks amounts of energy for short periods of Environmental Management System, which Bath employees raised money for time when in use.
is a system of procedures developed to Jeans for Genes minimise the impact of our operations on Energy consumption of electricity, gas the environment, will: and steam is established via utility invoices.
Allocate formal environmental The consumption of liquid petroleum gas responsibilities to ensure compliance LPG and oil is gathered via invoices.
with legislation: Support a culture of consultation with In 2011 energy consumption increased employees, key stakeholders and other 10.8% on the 2010 figure.
This is due interested parties: to increased business activity, new Provide environmental information, acquisitions and small fluctuations in climate conditions at some facilities.
guidance and training that meets best practice: WASTE GENERATION AND RECYCLING Monitor, measure, audit and seek Waste generation includes packaging continuous improvement in its waste card, wood and plastic, metal environmental performance: waste ferrous and non-ferrous, hazardous Work with external agencies and bodies materials paint waste, oils and adhesives, to ensure continued adoption of best batteries and waste electrical electronic practice solutions in environmental equipment WEEE.
management: Cees Jacobi, Rotork BV, took part in 110km hike organised by the Foundation Communicate best practice and publish Rotorks environmental aspect and Omloop Goeree-Overflakkee internal and external information detailing impact assessment completed in 2003 its aims and achievements: established that packaging waste generation was the Groups most significant Foster open communication with environmental impact.
Recycling systems employees, customers, suppliers and were introduced to reduce this impact other stakeholders via email and face-toin 2004: this was followed by a Group face discussion.
recycling key performance indicator KPI ROTORK P. L. C. 29 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued of 62% in 2005.
To support this KPI a The Groups 2011 change in water supplier packaging policy was introduced usage measures since 2010 in 2009 to ensure suppliers only used Water consumption increased by 15% packaging materials compatible to Rotorks against 2010 results.
Rotork does not operate any process that The Groups 2011 change in consumes large amounts of water, the environmental impact measures increase is seen as a result of fluctuations since 2010 in normal usage and the inclusion of The Groups waste recycling performance performance data from new acquisitions.
improved from 62% to 76% of the total waste produced see page 25 for more CARBON EMISSIONS Rotork Controls Canada raised money details.
In 2012, a new KPI has been Since 2003, the Group has been for Alberta Cancer Foundation set to take into account the current measuring and disclosing their Scope 1 & performance and acquisitions with the 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG which aim of recycling 70% of total waste comes from the use of electricity, gas, LPG, generated: oil and steam.
Waste sent to landfill fell by 6%.
The Groups Scope 1 GHG emissions derive from the consumption of gas, LPG, oil and Improved recycling and reduction in waste through business travel and the transport going to landfill reflects the Companys of goods by Company owned vehicles.
The commitment to reduce this impact on the Groups Scope 2 GHG emissions derive environment.
from the consumption of electricity and steam.
Legal compliance Waste Packaging Producers Obligation The Group records emissions of greenhouse Regulation 2007: Rotork is a member gases in accordance with the Greenhouse of the Clarity compliance scheme, Gas Protocol GHG Protocol developed membership number CPC0009: jointly by the World Business Council for Waste Electrical and Electronic Sustainable Development and the World Equipment Regulations 2006: Rotork is a Resource Institute.
member of the ECONO-WEEE compliance scheme, membership number WEE I mproved recycling All Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions are JD2053ZR: calculated in accordance with the GHG and reduction in Waste Battery and Accumulator Protocol using conversion factors published Regulations 2009: Rotork is registered by the US Environmental Protection Agency waste going to as a small battery producer, Batteries EPA, The Department for Environment, Producer Registration Number Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and the landfill reflects BPRN01259: International Energy Agency IEA.
All Scope Licensed waste carriers are used for 2 GHG emissions have been calculated the Companys using the relevant conversion factor for the removal of all types of waste from Rotorks facilities and the waste goes to the territory where energy was consumed, commitment to based on the mix of coal, oil, gas, licensed treatment facilities.
hydroelectric or nuclear generation used.
reduce this WATER Water consumption has been measured Groups 2011 Scope 1 excluding impact on the business travel or transportation data by the Group throughout the year to monitor water efficiency.
For the majority & Scope 2 GHG Emissions environment Whilst the Group does not operate any of sites, water consumption derives from normal operation and sanitary use.
The processes that consumes large amount of energy, the Scope 1 increases are seen Groups water is supplied by local utility providers, except for Rotorks facilities in as a result of increased business activity, fluctuations in normal usage and new Lucca, Italy and Chennai, India, where the water is metered and extracted direct from acquisitions.
Scope 1 GHG emissions increased by 14% against 2010 results: A number of our sales offices have less than five employees and are situated in Scope 2 GHG emissions increased by shared facilities where water consumption 15% against 2010 results.
Some landlords have assisted Rotork with measuring water consumption, however, we are still in the process of encouraging others to assist.
ROTORK P. L. C. 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 GROUPS OTHER EMISSIONS Outcomes The Groups Scope 1 & 3 GHG emissions In 2011 the Group: derive from the use of materials in the Terminated no contracts on the grounds of non-compliance with the Ethics and product, supply chain emissions, business travel, water usage and generation of waste.
Values statement or unethical behaviour: Commenced work into assessing new and The Group is committed to reporting these existing suppliers on ethical grounds: emissions in its Carbon Disclosure Project Commenced the development of an CDP, starting with business travel in 2012 ethical performance survey for all and GHG emissions for the manufacture of employees regarding awareness and products on a progressive basis from 2013. training on ethics and values: Published an article on ethical issues Progress in Rotorks internal global newsletter Scope 1 & 3 GHG emissions for business One Rotork: travel will be disclosed in the 2012 CDP disclosure: Translated the Ethics and Values statement into five Asian languages The Group has commenced calculation including three Indian dialects to enhance of GHG emissions for the manufacture understanding amongst employees and of its products.
business partners: ETHICS AND VALUES Had no claims made against it on HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL unethical or humanitarian grounds: BUSINESS Scored a FTSE4Good rating of 3.8 5 The Group is fully committed to respecting which is above the UK average.
internationally proclaimed human rights under the International Declaration of EMPLOYEES Human Rights and the International Labor The Group has a firm commitment to all Organisations standards in all its business of its employees regarding their safety and activities.
Implementation of the UN Global development.
The Group has an objective Compacts principles is a demonstration of and fair recruitment process which helps this commitment.
to promote equal opportunities across the Group in line with the global respect at The Group has a zero tolerance policy work and equality of opportunity policy.
We on forced and child labour and through aim to give employees a voice through an this policy is contributing towards the employee forum where employees can raise effective abolition of child labour.
Starting concerns to be dealt with by management.
in 2011, the Group has undertaken a It is the Groups intention to have in place review of its assessment criteria used for similar mechanisms where employees can suppliers during the procurement selection be consulted in its larger locations.
process to reflect a range of ethical issues, including human rights.
These new criteria The Group supports apprenticeship will be applied to all new suppliers going schemes which helps to increase access forward and over the next year will be into engineering.
retrospectively applied to existing major suppliers to ensure they are in compliance.
Outcomes All Rotork agents are required to comply In 2011 the Group: with the Rotork Ethics and Values Had an employee satisfaction survey statement which, amongst other things, score of 3.5 which is equal to 2010.
The guarantees a standard of human rights recent growth of the business has meant be adhered to, in accordance with Global more employees were surveyed: Compact principles.
Employed 27 apprentices: Measured its demographics by age in The Ethics and Value statement can 2011. be found at www.
com in the investors section under Corporate Social Rotork Bath sponsors Judo athlete BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Responsibility Ethics and Values.
Tom Reed The Group has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption worldwide, which The Group also has a whistleblowing policy applies irrespective of country or business which allows employees to make senior culture.
The Groups Ethics and Values management aware of any wrongdoing in statement published on Rotorks website the business.
It is available on Rotorks prohibits employees offering, paying or website in the Investors section under Our soliciting bribes in any form.
ROTORK P. L. C. 31 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued requires all its worldwide agents to sign up to Any deviations observed in the areas of safe this undertaking.
The Groups policy is also working practices, working conditions, or the not to make any political contributions in use of hazardous materials will be pointed cash or kind anywhere in the world.
out to the supplier and immediate corrective action sought.
All key suppliers are normally The Groups whistleblowing policy gives qualified to ISO 9000 standards.
employees a platform to alert senior management to any suspected bribery or Future audits will be developed to corruption.
benchmark the ethical and sustainability standards of the companies within the The Bribery Act 2010 came into force in supply base.
A programme is also to be April 2011.
The Group has ensured that it developed to retrospectively screen current complies with the Acts six principles globally suppliers in these areas.
by reviewing its procedures and practices and by re-emphasising top level commitment Outcomes to its aims and objectives.
During the year, In 2011 the Group: the Ethics Committee undertook a risk review Had a key supplier base with over 95% to identify major risks for Rotork with respect registered to ISO 9000: to geographical, sectoral and business Needed to take no action to rectify opportunity risks.
The Chief Executive unethical behaviour by suppliers: personally briefed general managers and Updated supplier audit and assessment senior worldwide sales managers on the methods in respect of ethical issues: Groups zero tolerance policy.
Managers also Commenced work into the development received presentations on the application of retrospective screening of existing of the Bribery Act 2010 and bribery and major suppliers on the new ethics criteria.
Agents are required to comply with the Ethics and Values statement which HEALTH & SAFETY encompasses the Bribery Acts obligations.
Rotork aims to provide a safe working The Groups internal audit processes include environment for all employees and visitors review and monitoring of potential bribery to its sites globally.
The Groups health and corruption risks.
& safety policy, endorsed by the Chief Executive, sets out the Groups requirement Outcomes to meet or exceed legislation and other In 2011 the Group: requirements in the countries in which Had no investigations or legal proceedings Rotork operates.
brought against it for bribery or corruption: Trained general managers and senior The Group Health & Safety policy can sales staff, including training on how to be found at www.
com in the Rotork employees from Rochester, USA effectively train their staff on the provisions investors section under Corporate supporting a human race event of the Bribery Act: Social Responsibility Health & Incorporated bribery and corruption audit Safety.
procedures as part of its internal audit process.
Effective management of our health & safety programme enables us to: Further reinforcement of bribery and Minimise the risk of injury to our corruption training will take place in 2012 employees, customers and suppliers and through direct engagement with staff using damage to property: various communication methods.
Reduce costs associated with employee SUPPLIERS illness, injury and loss of physical assets: The Groups outsourced manufacturing model Reduce the risk of legislative breaches.
places a high emphasis on supplier selection and evaluation.
The Group is committed to A team of Rotork employees from The Group operates a behaviour-based Rochester, USA provided voluntary work long term relationships with all members safety programme.
This requires managers to support a ladies golf tournament within the supply chain.
These relationships and supervisors to encourage safe working are reinforced through regular visits, audits, practices by: supplier development and a focus on risk Promoting regular safety observations by reduction.
Values such as integrity, working all staff: conditions and non-use of child labour are Regularly asking employees for their core to our principles and we actively search suggestions for improving safety at their for the same values from our suppliers.
facility: Assurance is sought from suppliers that they uphold all local laws and regulations.
ROTORK P. L. C. 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Holding employees accountable for of its companies.
A schedule of audits observing these practices: is established and approved by the CSR Committee.
Each Rotork Company is Providing managing safety courses for audited against a checklist which has been line management: developed to ensure each Company meets Regular health & safety training to Rotork exacting standards for health & employees on subjects such as manual safety.
Each characteristic on the checklist handling and confined spaces.
is compared against stated criteria and scored.
A calculation of the overall score In all of our sites, the safety of people gives the company a rating and any and property is of paramount importance.
company not achieving the baseline rating Rotork employees are engaged in activities is given limited time to improve.
which include manual handling of heavy objects, mechanical lifting, operating All audits are reviewed by the Groups machinery and driving to suppliers and Health, Safety and Environmental Officer.
In addition to working All required actions emanating from audits in the Groups facilities, Rotork Site Service are logged on a database and monitored RSS engineers work on customer sites, for correct and prompt completion.
which are often inherently more hazardous.
To reduce the risks associated with the The results of audits, the ratings of RSS activity additional safe working the companies and the status of audit practices are in place which include: actions are reviewed by the Health & Site surveys to establish requirements, Safety Committee.
The Committee meets measurements and an assessment of quarterly and any actions required as a the potential work area: result of these reviews are recorded in the Design assessments to identify risks, minutes of the meeting and acted upon.
hazards and necessary controls to eliminate, reduce or control the risk to Outcomes a reasonable level: In 2011 the Group: Had an AFR outcome of 0.46, 0.1 better Method statements detailing the work that is to be done, the control and than the target of 0.56: equipment that are to be used: The new AFR target for 2012 will be 0.47.
Point of work risk assessments, before work starts, which must also be reviewed Details of the Groups AFR over the past after any period away from the work five years and how it is calculated is shown area: on page 25.
The use of permits-to-work when working in hazardous environments such as COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT confined space work: Rotork considers it important to Bath employees took part in the Cardiff Unannounced internal audits of RSS contribute to and engage positively in the Bay Coast Along walk for WaterAid engineers when working on a customer communities in which it operates.
In 2011, Rotork has held and participated Three key measures are monitored across in numerous fundraising events for its the Group: accident frequency rate, lost nominated charity, WaterAid.
Highlights time rate and incident frequency rate.
By over the last year include: monitoring the results of these measures All Rotork Sweden employees donated we are able to identify areas of strong cash in lieu of the annual Christmas gift performance which can then be shared from Rotork: across the Group and areas of weakness Rotork Malaysia sold t-shirts: which may require additional resources and training.
Rotork Italy held a charity lottery and a charity football match: The Groups second non-financial Key A team of UK employees took part in Mehbrihit Kalay drinking water from the Performance Indicator KPI is its Accident Coast Along, a 10km trail around Cardiff schools tapstand, Mai Gbitsi, Ethiopia Frequency Rate AFR.
The target for this Bay, Wales.
Photographer Credit: WaterAid Marco Betti KPI is calculated as an average of the past three years AFR performance, the target The Group donated 90,000 to WaterAid for 2011 was 0.56. and a further 19,000 was raised from employee fundraising.
The Group will In addition to monitoring accidents, Rotork continue to support WaterAid in 2012 and undertakes health & safety audits of all sponsor its Jeldu Woreda Solar Powered ROTORK P. L. C. 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued water project in Ethiopia, which will improve Rotork is sponsoring Judo athlete Tom access to clean drinking water, provide Reeds bid to be included in the Great education and promote good sanitation Britain Olympic team.
In addition, in 2012, Rotork is looking to set up its own global charity Rotork has forged links with local initiatives.
universities, colleges and schools in a number of the locations where it operates.
Rotork also believes it is important to It also sponsors students to go into higher be a good neighbour by working in the education in India in addition to sponsoring community.
We regard this as part of our a school there.
Rotork is the industry ongoing responsibilities as a corporate member of the Bath Education Trust, entity and seek to be regarded as a good which has as its objectives educational corporate citizen.
One of the ways the advancement in local schools and the Group does this is by having local Charity promotion of community cohesion.
Committees at each of its sites which The Bath Education Trust has provided donate to local charities.
This empowers Rotork with an opportunity to further local employees to decide how to distribute develop local links.
Staff hold sessions the funds in their local communities.
During for students providing experience through 2011, 70,000 was donated by the local courses intended to develop skills such Charity Committees.
For example, Rotork as negotiating, presenting, project Milwaukee, USA donated school supplies management, conducting meetings and to fill 50 rucksacks to be distributed financial management.
to children from the Silver Spring Neighborhood Center, a non-profit social Rotork has a representative who is a service agency which supports Wisconsins member of the Industrial Advisory Board largest low-income housing development as for the Mechanical Engineering Department well as surrounding communities.
Rotork is also a member of an initiative of the Engineering Individual employees or groups of Development Trust and sponsors a science employees also engage in community project currently being undertaken by pupils activities and the Charity Committees in the sixth form of a local Bath school.
will normally match monies raised by employees who undertake charitable events personally.
Highlights from 2011 include: Employees from Rochester, USA, hosted a game of Penny Wars, a popular North American method of fundraising.
All proceeds went to the American Cancer Society with the Group matching the funds: Peter France Chief Executive Rotork employees ran the 10k Leeds 27 February 2012 Rotork Thailand donated cash to primary race to raise money for the Jane Tomlinson Appeal schools in Loey province in Thailand to enable them to host a lunch function, as well as purchase sports equipment in order to promote health and wellbeing: Employees based in Shanghai volunteered in a local school which helps disabled children: A Rotork Canada team took part in the CE Franklin 3 on 3 Hockey Challenge, which raised $155,000 for the Calgary Health Trust: The Group was a main sponsor of a charity football match in Bath, UK: Rotork Controls, Inc. Rochester sponsored Bivona Child Advocacy Center ROTORK P. L. C. 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
