7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 27 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 27 Corporate social responsibility report The Group considers that minimising its impact on the RPC sets out its required standards in health and safety environment, and ensuring that it has a positive interaction systems, leadership and performance every year in its Willis with its employees and the communities in which it has a Blue safety programme.
Annual audits by trained auditors presence, to be important factors in its success.
Social, are used to measure the performance of its sites against environmental and ethical risks and controls are included in these standards.
As in previous years, the standards required the Groups system of risk assessment and internal control.
for the year under review were increased, with greater The three main non-financial KPIs monitored by the Group emphasis on systematic and comprehensive application of are given in the Business Review.
procedures which are known to improve safety.
Health and Safety The reportable accident frequency rate is one of the Groups key metrics.
Following a substantial improvement in the The Board is committed to providing a clean, healthy and reportable accident rate from 1,829 in 2009 to 1,491 in safe working environment and accepts collective 2010, there has been an increase of 13% in 2011 to 1,695. responsibility for health and safety management.
The Board The main cause was an increase in slips, trips and falls a recognises that good health and safety management is a significant proportion of which were linked to the severe duty owed to the people involved in or affected by the winter weather conditions in northern Europe.
Despite this, Groups activities and treats health and safety as its first the safety of employees continues to improve as the severity priority.
of accidents and the total number of lost days due to accidents has reduced.
Having refreshed the health and safety framework in 2009 10, the Board has updated the Group Health and Reportable Accident Frequency Rate Safety Policy a copy of which can be found at www.
This Policy clearly defines the 3000 responsibility of the Board, management, all employees and 2500 others working on Group sites to ensure that safety is never compromised.
The Policy has been communicated to all 2000 employees throughout the Group and is now being 1500 communicated to all Superfos sites following its acquisition.
1000 500 Responsibility for the application of this policy has been 0 delegated to the Chief Executive and through him, to the 2008 2009 2006 2007 2010 2011 Cluster Managers and General Managers of all individual operating units.
Standards for health and safety vary widely Throughout the Group there have been significant across the countries where the Group operates.
As a improvements in health and safety through targeting specific minimum, the standards adopted are those required by law areas driven by the Willis Blue safety programme.
but the policy is to seek to exceed these where there is a Improvements in guarding of moving equipment and demonstrable benefit.
additional measures for those employees working at height during the year under review have shown clear benefits.
Executive directors and Cluster Managers have been trained Initiatives in 2011 12 will concentrate on the training and in, and regularly carry out, high level site safety tours of the education of employees in order to further develop a safe Groups sites in order to verify that the Boards requirements working culture with the aim of reducing accidents related are in place and operational on a day to day basis.
This to slips, trips and falls, cuts and manual handling.
process allows open dialogue with managers and employees, enables assessment of the extent to which the Boards All of the sites within the Group share details of reportable requirements are embedded in the Groups operations and accidents and near misses via the Group Health and Safety demonstrates the Groups commitment to the welfare of its intranet.
This has enabled the sharing of good practices and employees.
the identification and removal of potential hazards.
Health and Safety Managers from throughout the Group contribute Health and safety performance for each site, cluster and for to good practice guides which are used to ensure a the Group as a whole is reviewed at every Board meeting collaborative approach to improving the safety of the along with the details of significant accidents and near Groups activities.
misses with the potential to cause serious injury and initiatives for improving health and safety.
Going forward, the Groups efforts will continue to focus on the development of a safety culture which will include safety training at all levels, greater emphasis on the identification and resolution of potential hazards and further development of Group best practices by individual sites.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 28 28 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility report continued During the year, 11 apprentices have been taken on at the Ethics Groups UK sites with a further three to be recruited.
In The Group aims to act responsibly and with integrity, Germany, 5 apprentices have been taken on by each of RPC respecting the laws and regulations of all the countries Formatec and RPC Kutenholz.
Their training will take three within which it operates as well as internationally accepted years before they sit an examination to qualify for their standards of responsible business conduct.
The Group certificates of proficiency in careers as varied as Tool requires high standards of professional and ethical conduct Mechanic, Process Technician and Industrial Clerk.
from all employees, officers and directors.
These policies are now set out in a Code of Business Conduct which can be Communication read in full on the Groups website www.
The Group established a European Works Council in 1998 which meets once a year and a steering committee that Each business within the Group is expected to operate with meets four times a year.
The European Works Council brings policies and procedures which are consistent with the together employee representatives from across the Groups Groups values and standards.
In all dealings, employees and operations to discuss business matters with senior managers other persons acting on behalf of the Group are expected to: within the Group including Board members.
This involves the engage in honest and ethical conduct, including the provision of information concerning the Group, consultation ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest and discussions.
In addition there are national and site-based between personal and professional relationships: works councils or employee forums that discuss more local business matters.
maintain effective procedures to prevent confidential information from being misused or used for personal gain: An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued regularly in advance the legitimate interests of the Group, having five languages.
Employees are encouraged to make their regard to the Groups values and standards, as set out in views known to the directors and senior management of the the Code: Group.
comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in The Environment every country in which the Group operates: The Board recognises its responsibilities as a manufacturing treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: concern to continue to reduce the environmental impact of be intolerant of discrimination, harassment or its factories and manufacturing processes.
RPC is also victimisation: committed to developing and supplying products that help its customers meet their environmental objectives and the maintain high standards of integrity in business demands of their customers and of regulators.
relationships with suppliers: and encourage the use of those suppliers who operate with The Groups Sustainability Matters communication values and standards equivalent to the Groups.
programme provides regular updates on the latest initiatives in these areas as well as factual, reliable information on the In order to comply with the Bribery Act 2010, the Group has environmental impact and benefits of plastics packaging.
A conducted a risk assessment and has adopted an Anti-bribery number of presentations have also been made on Policy.
Appropriate procedures are being put in place to sustainability throughout the year to communicate the mitigate the risk of employees and other associated persons Groups achievements in this area to both customers and committing offences under the legislation.
These procedures wider global audiences.
Most notably, the Group presented at will be subject to regular monitoring and review.
the Thin Wall Packaging Conference 2010 with a presentation on Sustainability in Packaging: A Converters The Group does not employ child or forced labour in any of Perspective: and also at the British Plastics Federations its operations.
A child is as defined in the International Trends in Packaging seminar with a presentation on portion Labour Organisation Convention.
packaging, which highlighted the benefits of this type of pack for reducing food waste.
The Groups commitment to Employees sustainable packaging solutions was also a prominent part of the Groups stand at this years Interpack, Europes leading Training and Development packaging trade fair.
Employees are provided with training in order to give them the necessary skills to perform their duties and where Rigid plastic packaging already makes a significant appropriate to develop those skills and progress their career.
contribution to sustainability in the supply of both food and The Group invests in a range of development activities non-food products.
Working with our customers, the major including NVQs and apprenticeship schemes and supports retailers, the Government, recycling companies and research other professional and technical training.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 29 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 29 organisations, the Group aims to continue to improve the Sustainable Packaging Solutions environmental performance of its packaging.
The Groups products are used in a wide number of applications and market segments, using a wide range of Resource Use polymers.
The most significant areas of environmental impact associated with the Groups operations are polymer and its To improve the environmental impact of its packaging the conversion, energy consumption, water consumption, waste Group is able to employ a range of solutions including: to landfill, the use of outer packaging and transport.
reducing the amount of polymer used in a product while Maximising the efficiency of polymer conversion is a maintaining product performance: fundamental factor in the financial performance of the Group and is one of the key indicators monitored against reducing food waste through portion control packs and budget targets on a monthly or more frequent basis for all extended shelf-life: manufacturing operations.
incorporating post consumer recyclate PCR into Process Development: the Group seeks through internal packaging: and developments and investment to reduce the resource creating innovative solutions using its technological consumption of manufacturing sites.
The re-use of expertise in multi-layer barrier products the polymer both internally and externally and the use of combination of different polymers in a multi-layer post consumer or post industrial recycled polymer is structure is being used to substitute metal can and glass encouraged across the Group.
Energy and Water Consumption: the Group continues to invest heavily in energy and water efficiency measures The Group is actively investigating a number of recycled such as compressors, lighting and improved cooling polymer stream sources in order to secure future supply and systems.
to increase the product range within which post consumer material is incorporated.
Trials throughout the Group are Waste to Landfill: the Group acts to minimise the amount exploring the use of other types of recycled polymer for of waste sent to landfill by selling for recycling any waste applications in the personal care, lubricant, homecare and that cannot be used internally, such as cardboard and horticultural markets.
The Group is also looking at expanding cores, plastic tubes and film.
The Group continues to the use of recycled polypropylene with the long term goal of invest to reduce waste in its processes.
use within food product packaging.
This use is currently Outer Packaging and Transport: the Group minimises the hindered by the difficulty in identifying different types of use of outer packaging where appropriate and encourages polymer containers in the waste stream that have previously the use of returnable outer packaging formats.
The Group been used in food contact applications.
In addition the Group reduces the environmental impact of transport through is looking into the use of bio-based plastics and bio resins vehicle efficiency measures such as improved load fill, that could reduce the environmental impact of packaging in reductions in empty running and route optimisation.
In designing a new product and through material selection, A recent major investment has led to further light-weighting the Group aims to minimise the environmental impact of the across the range of paint containers produced at the Groups packaging and maximise its potential for recycling while Oakham site under the name Supertainer.
This will reduce meeting the required performance and customer needs.
The the carbon footprint of the container through a reduction in Group works with customers to reduce the weight of resource consumption, lower transport emissions and a existing products and monitors developments in alternative reduced end of life impact.
This investment means that the materials and production techniques which may reduce the Oakham site is now at the forefront of recycled polymer use environmental impact of its products.
Where practicable, in paint containers.
suitable assured post consumer waste polymer is used in place of virgin polymer.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 30 30 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility report continued Life Cycle Analysis LCA users of packaging in the food retail sector which aims to reduce the carbon impact of packaging by 10% by 2012 The Group continues to use LCA, where appropriate, to alongside aims to reduce food waste and to increase evaluate the environmental impact of packaging to aid both recycling rates.
its own and its customers understanding of the environmental impact of plastic packaging.
This tool has CO2 Emissions been used in a number of applications throughout the year to estimate the environmental impact of new product A project to monitor the Groups emissions started last year designs as well as changes to current formats.
The Groups has highlighted a number of areas where the Group is LCA studies focus on the environmental impact of the actively reducing its carbon footprint.
following lifecycle stages: The Group has invested 2.3m in 60 projects, mainly in the the extraction of raw materials: UK, with the aim of reducing the amount of electricity and the manufacturing process: and water it consumes.
These projects have given an estimated saving of electricity of some 23.8 GWhrs and a saving of the disposal or recycling of the packaging.
28,000 tonnes of water usage per annum.
An annual investment fund has been established for energy efficiency The Group, through collaboration with a major polymer projects within the Group with the first major investment supplier, has completed 3 LCAs which compared packaging being made within mainland Europe.
This will ensure the solutions from across the Groups technologies with the continued commitment of RPC to reduce energy equivalent glass and metal alternatives.
The results which consumption across the Group.
have now been externally reviewed indicate a 40% carbon footprint advantage for plastic packaging compared with the Carbon savings from the light-weighting of products, equivalent glass or metal packaging.
The Group views LCA as material replacement projects, the use of recycled materials a beneficial tool that allows customers to make informed and electricity savings have been quantified for the entire choices when considering the environmental impact of their Group as being in the region of 30,000 tonnes of CO2 for the packaging requirements.
Future Projects The Group is also currently working with a significant RPC Cobelplast Montonate is investing in a new number of food and non-food packaging companies across state-of-the-art extrusion line which will further contribute Europe to improve their supply chain CO2 emissions.
These to a lowering of CO2 emissions and reduction in energy collaborations will directly influence the Groups own consumption at the site.
The company developed the first emissions reduction as well as aiding others in achieving co-rotating twin-screw extruder for PET sheet in 2002, which theirs.
subsequently won an innovation technology prize from the Italian Government.
Twin-screw technology has since The Group is actively considering alternative energy sources become the most widespread process for the production of and an application for planning approval has been made to PET sheet, due to both its eco-friendly performance and its install a wind turbine at the Groups site in Plenmeller in the ability to create high quality and visually appealing sheet UK to provide for some of the sites electricity needs.
that incorporates post-consumer recycled polymer.
The technology offers an approximate 35% reduction in energy Customers and Suppliers consumption compared with the single-screw process as The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its relationships well as allowing for the direct processing of up to 100% with customers and suppliers, to provide customers with recycled material.
standards of product and service that have been agreed and to pay suppliers and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
Compliance The Group seeks to comply with all environmental and It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to the quality packaging waste legislation and to be active in management standard ISO 9001 and encourage operating environmental issues relevant to the packaging sector.
units to gain accreditation to any specific standards required The Group continues to maintain positive communications by the markets served or by customers such as the British with the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, a Retail Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP Food UK Government organisation focused on resource efficiency Packaging Standard.
Currently 96% of the Groups to combat climate change.
This relationship is particularly manufacturing operations have ISO 9001 accreditation and important in that it allows the Group to participate in 13 operating units have BRC IOP accreditation.
All of the industry developments such as Courtauld Commitment 2 Superfos manufacturing sites have accreditation under CC2 and the Home Improvement Sector Commitment.
CC2 is a voluntary agreement between Government and Job No.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43:7779 RPC Annual Report pp1-43 22 6 11 16:00 Page 31 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2011 31 Community The Board supports initiatives by operating units to engage with their local community.
Operating units and their staff participate in a variety of local activities including projects with local schools, charity events and factory open days.
The Group policy on donations is to support local educational and charitable causes, and in particular those where employees and their families are involved in the fund raising.
: 7779 Proof Event: 10 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
