Business Review Employees The current profile of the Groups employees and the changes over the last year are as detailed below.
Group 2011 2010 Average number of employees Energy 722 637 Built and Natural Environment Australia Asia Pacific 855 792 Built and Natural Environment Europe 3,000 2,831 Central 109 112 Group total 4,686 4,372 Days absent % 2 2 Average length of service years 6 6 Working part time % 10 9 Retention rate % 80 84 Female % 30 29 Age profile Employees aged under 25 % 9 8 Employees aged 25-29 % 16 17 Employees aged 30-49 % 55 55 Employees aged 50 % 20 20 Also uses extensive number of associates sub-consultants excluding redundancies The attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre employees is a strategic imperative of the Group.
To achieve this, the Group maintains appropriate remuneration structures as well as an environment in which employees are able to develop their skills in a way that can be applied to our clients requirements.
Each of the businesses has the remit to put in place arrangements that meet their specific demands whilst working within the framework of overall Group-wide structures and systems.
Human resource professionals are employed throughout the Group to support the achievement of this objective.
Each of the Executive Directors has overall accountability for the development of human resource practice within the businesses for which they are responsible.
The Groups policies in relation to health and safety are described on page 14.
Employee Engagement Building an environment in which employees feel engaged with their business and the Group as a whole is a key component of our strategy.
This is of particular importance in ensuring the successful integration of newly acquired businesses.
We have continued to develop the Group intranet as a means to communicate the Groups businesses and achievements as well as policies and procedures.
Regular corporate newsletters also facilitate this flow of information.
New employees receive an induction and regular staff appraisals facilitate open communication between employer and employee as well as identifying developmental needs.
The Group operates share plans across all its businesses aimed at giving employees a tangible interest in the Groups overall performance.
Share purchase plans are accordingly open to the vast majority of our employees and enable them to purchase shares in the Company with the benefit of a matching share contribution from the Company.
A performance share plan is also operated for more senior employees, which offers the potential to build an interest in the Company over a number of years.
Training and Development The Group is committed to the education and development of its employees to enable them to realise their potential and effectiveness.
Divisional directors and project managers are responsible for the management of training and verification of technical competence for project personal in accordance with our quality management systems.
Continuing professional development is of rpsgroup.
com 11 particular importance for our professional employees who are required to demonstrate technical competence within their specific sectors.
The Group accordingly supports a range of schemes through professional bodies and is a recognised training provider in a number of technical fields.
By way of example approved structured training schemes are operated for our chartered water and environmental engineers through CIWEM in the UK and for our civil engineers in the UK and Ireland through MICE and MIEI.
Employees are also encouraged to take an active involvement within professional and industry bodies.
In Australia, for example, employees are significant contributors to the Society of Petroleum Engineers, The Urban Development Institute and the Property Council of Australia.
During 2011 we acquired Nautilus which provides training to the Oil and Gas sector.
This will enable us to improve technical training within the Group.
During 2011 RPS continued its long-term practice of supporting staff in pursuing relevant higher education courses.
This involved sponsoring courses at a total of 37 universities and colleges across the United Kingdom, Ireland, USA and Australia.
Vacant positions within the Group are, wherever possible, filled from within and our developmental and training programmes support this objective.
Prior to external advertisement any available posts are announced internally via the Groups Intranet.
Equal Opportunities RPS provides equal opportunities for all its employees and potential employees regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, trans-gender status, religion or belief, marital status, civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, race, colour, nationality, national or ethnic origins.
The policy applies to the process of recruitment and selection, promotion, training and development, conditions of work, pay and benefits and to every other aspect of employment.
