44 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development Building locally, winning sustainably SABMiller has become one of the worlds leading brewers by building successful local businesses.
The decisions we take every day affect not only our own success, but also have a tangible impact on local economies, communities and the environment.
Addressing the growing challenges pregnant or while taking anti-retroviral drugs has wesharewith society been proven to be more effective.
3% Our businesses make their greatest contribution to society by delivering high quality products Driving economic development Water to lager ratio down to 4.2 hl hl which consumers enjoy.
In doing so, they are In the year, SABMiller generated over US$21,072 creating jobs, paying taxes, building the skills million of economic value, of which the majority base and demonstrating that business growth was distributed through the course of our business and sustainable development can be mutually to our employees, shareholders and investors, reinforcing rather than in conflict.
Our businesses suppliers and governments, as well as to local understand that their profitability depends on communities through our corporate social healthy communities, growing economies and investment activities.
the responsible use of scarce natural resources.
We integrate these issues into the day to day Our success makes a major direct contribution management of our business through our ten tolocal economies.
For example, we have sustainable development priorities.
distributed dividends of US$9 million to over 33,000 3% employees and local retailers in South Africa as part However, we recognise that health, economic of our Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment and environmental concerns continue to grow BBBEE transaction completed in June 2010.
Fossil fuel emissions from energy use at our breweries down to around the world, and that to protect and grow 13.8kgCO e per hl 2 our business we need to understand these In our value chains, we are working hard to build concerns and play our part to resolve them.
the capability of local farmers.
For example, in Mostcriticallyfor SABMiller, the increasing focus Mozambique, we are developing a new beer by both governments and non-governmental brand using locally sourced cassava which we organisations NGOs regarding social and health expect to require over 40,000 tonnes of cassava challenges, such as alcohol abuse and the influence a year, supporting over 1,500 new farmers of excessive alcohol consumption as a risk factor and their dependents.
Across the group, over in non communicable diseases, is leading to higher 28,000 smallholder farmers are involved in similar regulatory scrutiny and a strong expectation for programmes.
businesses to play a greater role in leading action Water to lager ratio totackle these problems.
We commission independent research in order to hl water hl lager better understand the economic impact we make 5.0 We share common goals with the World Health and how it can be improved.
Over the past two Organisation as outlined in its Global Strategy to years we have produced analyses of our direct and 4.6 4.6 4.5 Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, which was indirect economic contribution, including economic 4.3 4.0 4.2 adopted by the World Health Assembly in 2010. multipliers, in Uganda, Honduras, the Czech Our local businesses are committed to engaging Republic, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, 3.0 in partnerships to tackle the most pressing alcohol Romania, Russia, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain abuse concerns in their communities.
However, and the United Kingdom.
All these studies have 2.0 we believe that the narrowing of the global alcohol demonstrated that our activities make a significant debate to focus almost exclusively on regulatory positive contribution to the local economies in 1.0 actions that would reduce or ban marketing, which we work.
raise prices through increased excise taxes, and 0 restrict alcohol availability as a means to address We recognise a growing interest in the level of 07 08 09 10 11 its abuse, does not present an effective strategy taxation that global companies pay.
We aim to be for tackling the problem.
These policies can have transparent on this issue and to pay the right and the unintended consequence of driving consumers correct amount of tax according to the laws of to illicit or unlicensed alcohol.
We believe that a each country in which we operate.
In the year, total broader approach which recognises the critical role taxes borne and collected by the group amounted of the proper enforcement of existing regulation to to US$8,400 million 2010: US$7,000 million.
This prevent drink driving and underage drinking, and includes excise taxes, transactional taxes and taxes reinforcing consumers awareness of the health borne by employees, as well as the share of our risks of drinking to excess and drinking while US joint ventures taxes.
We consider this wider tax 50518 TEXT pgs36-49.
indd 44 07 06 2011 00:40 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 45 Kilimanjaro Named after the iconic mountain and better known in its home market of Tanzania as Kili, this crisp, mild, easy drinking, refreshing natural lager is light in colour with a slightly bitter taste.
Origin: Tanzania First brewed: 1996 www.
com footprint to be an appropriate indication of the tax Conservancy in Colombia, Honduras, the USA and contribution from our operations.
with local partners in India.
The corporate tax charge for the year was Our affordability business strategy in Africa, based US$1,069 million, which represents an effective on the local sourcing of crops such as sorghum tax rate of 28.2%.
This places us in the upper and cassava as well as barley, continues to grow quartile of the FTSE 100 as measured by publicly and we are pleased to be part of the Government reported effective tax rates.
of Tanzanias Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor SAGOT project.
By including previously The groups presence in many developing subsistence farmers in our supply chains, such economies provides major sources of employment as our cassava sourcing project in Southern Online and income and therefore tax revenues.
The taxes Sudan with FARM Africa and the Africa Enterprise we pay are split between developed countries Challenge Fund, we are expanding market access 22% and developing countries 78%.
For more information on our approach to sustainable development and our performance, go to our 2011 Building strong action plans and partnerships We are members of Global Action on Harmful Sustainable Development Report We have extensive internal programmes which Drinking, a worldwide partnership with other major at www.
com aim to improve water and energy effi ciency, to international beverage alcohol producers to address educate our employees on alcohol responsibility harmful drinking through a combination of global and to raise awareness and engagement around and local actions.
the worldon our overall approach under the banner TenPriorities.
Transparency and ethics High standards of ethical behaviour and Internal action alone, however, is not suffi cient.
transparency underpin all that we do.
SABMiller Many of the sustainable development challenges we has a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which face, from alcohol abuse in communities to water applies to all employees across the group as well risks, can only be effectively tackled in partnership as third parties acting on our behalf.
Many of our with experts from NGOs, governments and local businesses have their own programmes, such academic institutions.
We believe a collaborative, as Bavaria in Colombia which has trained over multi-stakeholder approach can offer different 14,700 employees, subcontractors and suppliers insights and knowledge, and that by working onbusiness ethics since 2006. together with a shared purpose we can have a much greater effect than if we just worked alone.
We place a high value on reporting and communicating in an open and honest way to our During the year we have expanded our Tavern stakeholders, locally and globally.
Twelve of our Intervention Programme in South Africa, which businesses produce their own sustainability reports focuses on responsible drinking, gender violence and many others provide information online.
and HIV Aids awareness, with support of the Global Fund on HIV Aids, Malaria and Tuberculosis.
In March 2011, we published the fi findings of a two We have also developed our Water Futures year project with Oxfam America and Coca-Cola partnership with WWF and GIZ part of the German in Zambia and El Salvador to review the poverty governments development agency to include not footprint of our soft drinks operations in these two only the partnerships in South Africa, Tanzania, countries.
The study found that in general human Peru and Ukraine, but also to collaborate with local rights and labour standards were well protected and water partnerships with groups such as The Nature environmental resources were well managed at our A focused approach to sustainable development management Our vision To be the most admired company in the global beer industry Global focus areas Enterprise Alcohol Water development in responsibility our value chains Regional focus areas Energy carbon HIV Aids CSI Continual improvement Human rights Waste Transparency and ethics Packaging 50518 TEXT pgs36-49.
indd 45 07 06 2011 00:40 46 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development Continued bottling plants.
The report also identified improvement in the three areas of alcohol, water and actions in the value chain such as the under transparency and ethics.
More detailed information 2.9 representation of women, and health and safety of on our scores by country and priority can be found specific groups such as sugar cane harvesters in at www.
Average score achieved against our ElSalvador and independent truck drivers in Zambia.
Sustainability Assessment Matrix We are already working with Coca-Cola, Oxfam and The water efficiency of our beer operations has SAM, up from 2.6 last year other local stakeholders to prioritise and address the improved by 3% over the past year, and 8% since actions raised in the report.
we set our target to reduce water consumption by 25% by 2015 in 2008.
Monitoring and measuring performance We structure our management of sustainable Our carbon emissions from fossil fuel use have development through our ten priorities.
Within these reduced by 3% per hectolitre of lager produced.
we have three areas of particular global focus: to To accelerate this reduction we have put in discourage irresponsible drinking: to make more place detailed action plans based on a review of beer using less water: and to encourage enterprise opportunities available and we are confident that we Fossil fuel emissions from energy development within our value chains.
It is these will meet our target to reduce emissions per hectolitre used at our breweries areas that we believe have the greatest potential to by 50% by 2020 compared to the 2008 baseline.
kgCO e hl lager 2 impact on business value, and create the greatest 15.0 benefits for the communities in which we work.
We have also continued to drive down brewery 14.9 14.5 14.3 14.2 waste and packaging use.
For the past two years, 13.8 Our 10 sustainable development priorities also MillerCoors disposed of no waste at all to landfill take into account our commitment to the UN from its breweries at Elkton, Trenton and Irwindale.
10.0 Global Compact, as well as our support of the Furthermore, it has reduced the amount of retail UNMillennium Development Goals.
packaging it uses by 5.9 million tonnes over the past year.
5.0 The group Corporate Accountability and Risk Assurance Committee CARAC, a sub-committee of Meeting the challenges of a changing world the SABMiller plc board, is responsible for overseeing The growth prospects for emerging regions such as progress against our 10 priorities.
Our Sustainability China, India, Africa and Latin America remain one of 0 Assessment Matrix SAM system provides a regular the most compelling global trends of the 21st century.
07 08 09 10 11 and detailed assessment of sustainable development The demands on resources that this growth will performance which informs both business planning require, compel businesses to take a more proactive and corporate governance through our regional role in engaging with governments and other and group CARACs.
This year we have taken the stakeholders to develop solutions to environmental, SAM system further and added a fifth level leading health and other social issues which arise.
edge to continue to stretch our operations where a sustainable development priority is material and Through our strong internal approach to sustainable relevant for the local business.
development and our broad set of partnerships, we are well placed to deliver improved livelihoods The average score achieved across all priorities for the millions of people that benefit from our value was 2.9 this year, an increase from 2.6 last year.
Furthermore, our scores have improved against all priorities, with significant increases in performance Stairway level assessment criteria SABMiller sustainable development group average scorecard 2011 Leading edge: Performance that represents genuine 2009 2010 2011 5 global leadership on an issue.
Best practice: Achieving what is currently 4 considered to be global best practice in a particular field.
Developing leadership: Applying a comprehensive 3 approach including innovative tools and widespread engagement.
Progressing: Ensuring consistent performance is 2 achieved in a particular field.
Minimum standard: All operations must achieve 1 level 1, or have a plan in place to do so, as it represents management of our key sustainable development risks.
Alcohol Water Energy Packing Waste Enterprise CSI HIV Aids Human Transand carbon and development rights parency packaging and value chain and ethics waste management 50518 TEXT pgs36-49.
indd 46 07 06 2011 00:40 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 47 White Bull Brewed in Juba by Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd. White Bull is a light, refreshing, carefully crafted lager designed for the diverse Southern Sudanese market.
Locals regard the white bull as symbolising power, peace and prosperity.
Origin: Southern Sudan First brewed: 2009 By working in partnership with NGOs, governments and local stakeholders we can create more value for our business and make a greater difference in our markets than if we worked alone.
Discouraging irresponsible drinking Making more beer using less water Encouraging enterprise development Why this is a priority Why this is a priority Why this is a priority We want our consumers to enjoy our Water scarcity and availability represents Increasingly we recognise the benefi ts of beer responsibly and we know that the a potentially signifi cant risk to parts of sourcing locally and working with suppliers majority do so in moderation.
However, we our business, as well as to some of the in our own communities.
In this way we also know that a minority drink too much, communities in which we operate.
We can make a contribution to the health and drink while under age, drink and drive, aim to work collaboratively to protect economic development of the markets in and potentially cause harm to themselves the watersheds that we share with local which we operate.
We work actively communities and on which we depend.
across all our markets, often with our stakeholders, to promote responsible drinking and combat alcohol abuse.
Priority in action: Priority in action: Priority in action: SABMiller is a founding member of the EU We have operations in many parts of the In 2009, we commissioned our fi first brewery Alcohol and Health Forum, a partnership world that are at risk from water stress.
To in Juba, Southern Sudan.
To date, we have between over 40 companies, NGOs, protect the production of our beers in some created jobs for over 200 local people, and experts and public institutions whose of these areas and to tackle the water related through a pioneering land lease agreement purpose is to take action against the risks we share with the local community, the local community receives royalties from harmful use of alcohol.
we have established our Water Futures the growth of the brewery.
In April 2011, global partnership with the World Wide Fund weannounced a further investment of Since 2007, we have undertaken 15 for Nature and the German governments US$15 million, to increase brewing capacity initiatives as part of this.
In the past year sustainable development agency, GIZ.
alone, we have expanded a text messaging The partnership has engaged with local programme in Slovakia in partnership with stakeholders in South Africa, Tanzania, Peru In partnership with FARM-Africa, we have the Slovak Ministry of Transport and Prima, and Ukraine to quantify these risks and coalso engaged with 2,000 smallholder a Slovakian NGO, that by enabling mobile ordinate the development of local action plans farmers to introduce a local sourcing phone users to get information about in each country.
We published our fi first Water programme to grow cassava which will their blood alcohol content, discourages Futures report in September 2010, which provide the ingredients we need to brew drink driving: set up an online discussion included a comprehensive water footprint beer.
We estimate that approximately forum in Italy to provide information on forthe four countries.
15,600 people within our value chain could the effects of alcohol consumption: and benefi t as a result over the next three years.
launched a website in Romania called The success of this partnership means Find Your Balance!
to deliver educational that we are now seeking to expand this alcohol messages through online debates collaboration into other parts of the world with and live events.
We are currently working additional partners, incorporating SABMiller to include responsibility reminders on our initiatives underway in India, Honduras, packaging labels and in our commercial Colombia, and at MillerCoors in the USA.
