48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 People Valuing and empowering our employees We believe that a healthy, engaged, well trained and motivated workforce with a passion for what they do each day is a key competitive advantage for our local businesses.
Being a flexible, fair and equitable employer issue, as well as in our value chain.
MillerCoors, SABMiller employs some 70,000 people from a for example, has a number of Employee Affinity diverse range of backgrounds and cultures.
We aim to Groups EAGs that have been established to treat them all fairly and with respect, to provide a safe advance diversity, and promote inclusion and the working environment and offer access to development rights of minority groups, including those of certain opportunities and career progression.
In South Africa, SAB Ltd has invested over principles apply across our business, and equally to ZAR25million US$3.5 million on skills development contractors and temporary workers.
We acknowledge for women in the last year, particularly through its the value of good labour relations and respect the enterprise development initiatives to support small right of our employees to have union representation.
38% of our workforce are members of a union.
Safety, health and wellbeing of our employees c. 70,000 All our permanent employees are paid a fair Each of our businesses is responsible for ensuring wagefor the work they do and are entitled to paid a safe working environment.
We have robust Number of employees holiday and sick leave.
Some are also entitled to systems, including regular audits, to minimise the other benefits, including access to company share risk of accidents.
In the event of non-compliance schemes and life insurance.
In many countries, we our businesses are required to develop action plans offer our employees free medical healthcare if they tocorrect this.
Where HIV Aids is prevalent, employees and their dependants have access to voluntary testing During the year we recorded 1,454 industrial and counselling, as well as access to managed injuries, 2% fewer than in 2010.
Across the business healthcare programmes including free anti-retroviral we lost 13,210 days through injury, down 7% drugs.
The same is also true for other infectious compared with the previous year.
These downward diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis.
trends reflect our ongoing commitment to health and safety as we continue to raise awareness of this 3.8 In some countries where historically there have issue among employees, aim to ensure appropriate been systemic inequalities within local cultures we standards and safe working practices and provide Days of training per employee often work with local partners and governments to better guidance on internal reporting of data.
In South Africa, for example, we are a strong advocate and supporter of BroadIt is with regret that we report seven employee and Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE contractor fatalities this year.
Four of these related and have created thousands of shareholders in to accidents involving vehicles, two related to SAB Ltd as a result see page 44. accidents while undertaking maintenance or repair activities and one was a result of an employee We have clear policies and processes in place being struck by lightning.
In each case, we have relating to diversity, including ethnicity and gender, undertaken a detailed investigation and as a result and we encourage a culture that is respectful and we have reviewed our working practices and put tolerant of difference, recognising the benefits that in place appropriate measures to minimise the adiverse workforce can offer.
likelihood of such an incident occurring again.
19.5% of our employees are female 2010: 19.5% The health and wellbeing of our employees is and over a quarter of executives and managers important to us.
From a commercial point of view, across the business are women.
These proportions absent or unmotivated employees can damage have remained broadly unchanged over the last productivity.
Independent research undertaken in twelve months.
At SABMiller plc board level, a South Africa, relating to our HIV Aids programmes, third of our independent non-executive directors suggested a fourfold return on the investment made are women.
The brewing industry is traditionally by SAB Ltd in terms of reduced absence, and perceived as male-dominated, so we face particular increased productivity.
challenges in fostering female empowerment and leveraging our impacts in this area.
As such we are Within many of our businesses, we make working within our own business to address this professional medical and counselling services 50518 TEXT pgs36-49.
indd 48 07 06 2011 00:40 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 49 Cusquea Cusquea is Perus premium beer.
Brewed with 100% pure malt and the highest quality Saaz hops it recalls the mystery and magic of its origins in Cusco, the Inca capital.
It is specially made for consumers who value the best.
Origin: Peru First brewed: 1930 www.
pe available to employees and their families who suffer Health and wellness at MillerCoors from stress disorders, obesity, alcohol dependence or other related medical conditions, as well as MillerCoors offers its employees a broader employee assistance programmes.
In comprehensive health and wellness 2010, Cervecera Hondurea opened a second programme, with the rationale that healthy health centre in Honduras to provide a range of employees can help control the rising costs healthcare services for employees.
To date over of healthcare and that a healthy workforce is 1,500 employees have benefited and our work has more productive.
Employees who participate been recognised by the Honduran Social Security in the programme are given reduced health Institute.
In Uganda, Nile Breweries has established care costs.
an on-site hospital staffed by permanent medical staff to provide treatment for employees, including To be eligible, employees must go through an minor operations and treatment for malaria suffers.
on-line assessment and biometric screening measuring blood pressure, cholesterol, blood Preserving brewing skills and knowledge sugar and body mass index numbers, as well We have a strong programme of technical training as complete one of three health improvement to preserve the art of brewing, as well as to find programme requirements, such as workout ways to innovate the way we produce beer.
We schedules, one-on-one health coaching, and run a number of schemes, including those through awalking programme.
which employees can earn their qualifications to be a master brewer, and encourage brewers to The company also has a fully staffed on-site work towards internationally recognised brewing medical facility, fitness centre, employee assistance qualifications and professional accreditation, such programme EAP, and numerous clubs and as those offered by the Institute of Brewing and events to promote health and wellness.
programme at MillerCoors offers employees free assistance and support for depression, anxiety SABMiller also sponsors the Chair of Brewing and stress, substance abuse, as well as parenting Science at Nottingham Universitys School of and family issues, including child and elder care.
Biosciences and has invested 2.7 million in the development of a ground-breaking pilot brewery To find out more please visit that will focus on new brewing technologies and www.
com processes, while improving its sustainability.
Training our employees on alcohol responsibility We expect our employees to maintain high standards of personal conduct with regard to alcohol consumption.
We ask them to setan example, which in turn enables us tobe a credible voice in the debate surrounding irresponsible drinking and reducing alcohol abuse.
Our training to enable this consists of a two-part programme Alcohol Behaviour and Communication AB&C and Alcohol Intelligence Quotient AIQ and aims to embed our principles, Supporting talent and personal development policies and best practice across the group.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, we provided Each of our local businesses is able to adapt their 3.8 days of training for every employee 2010: training to make it appropriate for their market 4.2days.
Our training curriculum offers over 400 and local circumstances.
In many cases, this is tailored courses across the world, many facilitated extended into the local community.
For example, by the worlds leading educational institutions.
in Angola local stakeholders, including those from For example, leaders of our European businesses local government and the police, were invited to have undertaken management development anemployee training session in February 2011. training at Said Business School at the University of Oxford with a particular focus on future challenges During the past year, our businesses have trained facing society.
In Africa, we have worked with the on average more than 80% of their employees Gordon Institute of Business Science, based at the in alcohol responsibility.
In a recent employee University of Pretoria in South Africa, to provide survey 88% said that they understood our alcohol more regionally focused management training for our policy and that they thought it was important for future leaders from across our African businesses.
SABMillers success now and in the future.
To find out more please visit www.
