Performance People and organisation Leadership Our people, culture and guiding One of our key goals is to be recognised for the quality of our principles sit at the heart of what leadership within the organisation.
Following the appointment of the Chief Executive Officer in 2010, a number of very senior we do.
As a decentralised business executive promotions followed across our countries and regions.
These appointments were a key measure of the we believe this is a source of success of several years of strengthening and deepening our executive talent pools.
We believe that our strategy of competitive advantage in all our developing more global leaders, supported by the launch of the Sage Leadership Standard and the Sage Leadership markets as decisions can be made Performance Programme in 2008, has been instrumental in our talent initiatives and the number of promotions we were locally and with the local customer able to deliver.
Our leadership programmes remain a key investment for the organisation.
Our current focus is to in mind.
continue to apply and embed these programmes across our senior leadership community and to deepen leadership We believe that the quality of the development at more junior levels of management.
Our focus for 2012 and beyond is to strengthen our succession employee experience has a direct plans at all levels within the organisation so that we are able to replenish our talent pool as a consequence of multiple bearing on the quality of the promotions.
Part of our strategy to achieve this goal is to customer experience and this increase the levels of global mobility across the business in order to create a stronger international cadre of talent at all levels.
This philosophy prevails throughout will become a priority as the number of products requiring global collaboration increases and hence the need for our leadership all our people policies.
community to work in closer partnership also grows.
Diversity Employees in Sage Sage is very supportive of the aims and objectives of the Restated Davies Report on Women on Boards published in February 2011 2010 2011.
In considering appointments to the Board and to senior Europe 7,685 7,470 executive positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, experience, knowledge and diversity required by a particular North America 2,753 2,788 role and make an appointment accordingly.
The Board of AAMEA 1,785 1,816 Sage currently comprises 25% women and we would expect Group and central operations 166 145 to maintain a similar balance through 2013 to 2015 as the Board is refreshed during this period.
The Board will regularly Total 12,389 12,218 consider how diversity can be enhanced throughout the senior management team and across the Group.
It is of the utmost importance to maintain strong leadership at Sage and we will therefore continue to appoint only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Our top leadership population 97 leaders is 26% female Whilst we have not set out to win Great Place to Work 2010: 22%.
The majority of countries have leadership teams accolades, we do continue to receive external recognition.
in excess of 30% female with the exception of Germany and One of our South African businesses Softline VIP Payroll Australia.
44% of our total workforce profile is female.
Our UK was announced as the winner of the business and business established an Enterprise for Women group to help professional services category in the 2011 rendition of senior female executives focus on their careers at Sage and the Deloitte Best Company to Work For Survey.
to encourage future female leaders.
Collaborating across countries, regions and continents is Additionally, and as part of our global policies, we are becoming increasingly important.
During the year we launched committed to an inclusive environment for all of our people.
Open... our global collaboration platform, which complements We emphasise the importance of treating individuals in a local intranets but provides the opportunity to collaborate non-discriminatory manner across the full employment on an enterprise-wide basis using social networking tools.
lifecycle, including hiring, reward, development, promotions, Open provides collaborative functionality and a new mobility and termination.
Training is provided to those platform where everyone across Sage, regardless of making decisions on these factors so that no individual is location, can talk, share, create and innovate.
disadvantaged and to prevent discrimination on the grounds of gender, religion, belief, race, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or marital status.
The Employee Experience Whilst we have undertaken local employee surveys for many years at Sage, during the year we undertook our first employee engagement study over the largest 16 countries in the Group.
Using Key Moments Of Truth methodology, KMOT, the objective was to identify KMOT that either have a positive or negative influence and overall impact on our employees.
Like many other organisations, Sage has a largely engaged workforce overall.
Having a profile of largely knowledge workers, the most positive and significant aspect in the study was the strength of team spirit and camaraderie our people enjoy working with colleagues and respect what their colleagues contribute.
The largest KMOT gap was that employees were concerned about promotion and personal growth prospects.
This has become a key area of focus in our people strategy and we have responded with a number of initiatives to increase engagement levels in key business areas: for example workshops on our global vision and strategy, strategic problem solving, and local action planning to resolve customer pain points.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 37
