Performance Corporate responsibility Sage remains committed to acting as a responsible corporate citizen, continuing to take a pragmatic approach to Corporate Responsibility CR, whilst building upon our initiatives of previous years.
We focus on areas that are most relevant to Sage, our people and our customers.
Our CR policy includes four key areas of focus: people, industry, community and environment.
We measure our Our CR policy progress in each area, setting out to achieve best practice in the local context of every country in which we operate We aim to leverage the unique trusted and sharing this across the Group for continuous improvement.
Information about our people activities partner relationship that we have with Industry can be found in the People and organisation section our customers globally to continue to of the report on pages 36 and 37. understand and support the issues and In line with our business model, our approach remains challenges that they face.
flexible in order to allow our businesses to focus on the areas that are of most importance to Sage and the local customer base.
However, all of our CR activities must remain true to the core strategic values of Sage and are managed, assessed and supported accordingly.
Standards Our local communities are important established by local legislation will apply as a minimum.
to us and we actively support a number Community CR at Sage is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Executive of charities and community organisations Committee.
Application of the CR policy is led by the CR worldwide in order to make a positive Steering Committee which is led by the Group Director of Human Resources and includes Board presence through impact on the communities in which we live and work.
We continue to analyse our impact on our environment.
We remain committed Environment to reducing our energy consumption and related emissions where possible, as well as reducing our wider impacts such as resource use and waste to landfill.
the membership of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on risks and opportunities in the area of CR.
Sage continues to work towards the highest standards of governance and more details on this can be found in the Governance section within this annual report.
Our Code of Ethics remains in place across our organisation and we continue to monitor and extend the channels by which employees can anonymously report any concerns about bribery, fraud and corruption.
We also ask our leadership population to sign a declaration relating to the Code of Ethics, to ensure we have transparency surrounding any additional business commitments they may have and their relationships with customers and suppliers.
Read more about our corporate responsibility initiatives and priorities on our website.
com ourbusiness aboutus  38 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Keeping close to our customers and the issues that are important Industry to them is the cornerstone of Sages business philosophy.
Our decentralised structure helps us to remain intimately connected to the problems and opportunities they face every day.
card merchant services to the TechSoup offerings.
Since 2008, we have Understanding the issues that SMEs face supported 1975 non-profit organisations with software valued at Partnership with our customers is something we place great value $1.3million, including more than 700 organisations with software on within Sage a partnership founded on understanding.
We achieve valued at $304,000 in the past year alone.
this by conducting regular research in each country to ensure we fully appreciate their business landscape and the challenges they face.
Developing the business leaders of tomorrow In turn we are able to help our customers to make the most of their business opportunities.
Developing future talent, both within our business and in the wider business community, remains important to our business and our people.
In February 2011 we released a report The Sage Business Index 2011 The values on which Sage is founded Simplicity, Trust, Integrity, International Business Insights, based on research conducted with over Innovation, Agility capture the spirit of entrepreneurship and are the 6,000 small businesses across the world in a broad range of industry lifeblood of business.
Helping to create the entrepreneurs of tomorrow sectors.
We expanded this research and released the second Sage is something we are passionate about.
For each country, the reports cover business confidence and the economy, each country as a place One very direct way of supporting business and recognising talent is to do business, the role of government, business challenges and the through awards.
Sage businesses have supported many local business role of technology.
awards including: The results reveal that whilst confidence appears to be returning, this is the national Startups award in Switzerland: not universal and, though businesses in each country face a variety of Pastel Small Business Awards in South Africa: issues particular to their geography, there are common challenges, such HR leadership Awards in Australia: and as legislation and funding.
Entrepreneurial spirit and culture are shown to the Young Enterprise North East Company of the Year award in the UK.
be alive and well and the report points to how the key driver for adopting new technologies is to improve business efficiency.
The September 2011 In South Africa, Softline sponsors The Life College Xchange, an annual report showed a decline in overall confidence about the economic event at the Life College Xchange programme to promote the development outlook, but at the time of publishing, when asked about prospects for of entrepreneurial skills amongst the Life College students.
The Xchange is their own business, respondents were still somewhat confident.
a trading floor for ideas and opportunities which these young entrepreneurs can use to interact with prospective funders and investors.
Doing business In the course of doing business with our customers, suppliers and other third parties, we behave with integrity and professionalism.
Our values and our Code of Ethics demonstrate that we operate responsibly and in accordance with all relevant laws and regulations.
In all our dealings with customers we pride ourselves on our honesty, Providing charitable support to local businesses integrity and openness.
Customer data is treated with sensitivity and and organisations respect and is handled in a way that meets the requirements of data We continue to work with organisations to provide free business protection laws in the countries in which we operate.
In North America, our partnership with TechSoup helps charities manage their operations.
During the year, We seek mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers and we we added our Sage Simply Accounting software and discounted credit recognise our position as a role model to SME businesses.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 39 Performance Corporate responsibility continued The localised nature of our business remains one of our key strengths, especially when it comes to enabling our people to have a positive impact on the communities in which they live and work.
Community We have a long history of actively supporting a number of charities and community organisations within our local communities.
Activities including fundraising, sponsorship and voluntary work are commonplace in Sage offices around the world.
Sage Day was once again a focus for charitable activities across our Volunteering in the community offices with more than 10,000 people taking part and 15 charities Our volunteering programmes allow employees to take additional paid benefitting from cash donations, employee volunteering and leave to take part in volunteering activities.
These activities are based charity events.
around our commitment to education, the local community and the environment.
We believe that all of our employees have the skills and Investing in the future experience to make a real difference and that this is also an opportunity Much of our focus on CR remains on education and supporting young for personal development.
people from disadvantaged backgrounds to develop essential life and business skills.
Firstly, we provide bursaries through various organisations across our locations, for example, Foundation Speranza in Switzerland.
Secondly, we design and run internal undergraduate and internship programmes to give students every opportunity to succeed in academic pursuits and to provide them with an insight into their future careers.
Foundation Speranza supports adolescents in their professional eduction.
Sage Switzerland has provided internships of up to several months and is targeting 10 interns per year in conjunction with the programme.
Supporting local charities Throughout the year, our employees have been actively involved in fundraising for charity and have undertaken a variety of fundraising activities.
Some examples: Our Giving is Living payroll programme in North America allows employees to make direct donations, of which 50% is matched by Sage.
In total our employees donated over $90,000 during the year.
In the UK, we continue to donate funds to great causes through our community foundation fund.
In total during 2011 we donated 75,000 to a range of good causes through this fund.
In South Africa, our Softline business continues to provide funding to Afrika Tikkun, a leader in community development.
Our contribution this year was allocated towards an early childhood development centre.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements 3,845 3,861 3,698 4,475 4,676 4,916 4,146 4,826 4,714 4,969 5,721 5,415 16,890 16,154 15,090 20,787 22,417 22,166 Whilst our business has a low environmental impact, we seek to minimise it by reducing our use of energy and by increasing recycling wherever possible.
We achieve this through employee Environment education and awareness, as well as through appropriate investment.
We have responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project and are also a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
the identification of energy efficient measures to carry out during office Reporting carbon emissions re-fits and refurbishments, monitoring our usage and implementing We have published data on our carbon emissions since 2009, and schemes within our businesses to target areas of high energy usage.
continue to improve our approach.
Carbon emissions during the year An example of this is Sage Spains Energy Efficiency Scheme rolled out were 26,773 tonnes representing a reduction of 5% against the prior last year.
The measures undertaken helped to reduce Spains energy year due mainly to lower electricity consumption.
This reduction is as consumption by 19%.
We intend to continue to monitor our carbon a result of a number of initiatives designed to increase efficiency in and energy usage throughout the business to measure the effectiveness our energy usage and raise employee awareness so that they play of any further schemes that we implement and report on these in coming an active part in continuing to reduce our footprint.
We also hope to continue to improve our approach to reporting We are continually working to improve the environmental impact of our and disclosure, particularly as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
current operations through a variety of different measures.
These include Total CO emissions from energy Sage Groups global carbon footprint from energy tCO e 2 2 in nearest whole tonnes Scope 1 gas 6% 2011 2010 Scope 2 electricity Europe 9,795 9,932 North America 11,934 13,189 AAMEA 5,044 5,157 Total 26,773 28,269 Scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions are measured from the electricity and gas paid for together with the emissions factors provided by the UKs Department for Energy and Climate Change DECC in order to calculate our carbon footprint from this usage 94% It is our policy to report on offices with more than 25 employees.
2010 energy figures for Spain have been restated due to a broken meter.
MWh of energy used within Sage business 2009 Reducing waste 2010 We aim to promote recycling and the use of recycled materials throughout our organisation.
We continue to work to reduce our print and 2011 packaging volumes: the increased use of auto-update technology as well as the increase in the number of online business solutions and connected services will aid this objective.
We also believe that it is important for us to manage our in-house activities to reduce waste.
Several of our local businesses continue to develop and run pilot initiatives to reduce waste and increase environmental awareness, including: replacing paper bag with a Virtual Tote Bag at the Sage Summit event in North America resulting in a reduction of 150,000 printed pages new Green Champions group formed in the UK helping to increase recycling by over 250% a project to change printing systems in Spain resulting in an 87% North America UK & Ireland France Spain South Africa reduction in the number of printers.
2009 and 2010 energy figures for Spain have been restated due to a broken meter.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 41 Other countries
