Overview Performance Governance Financial statements to shareholders.
Despite an uncertain economic environment we remain confident about our business and our intention is therefore to reach a net debt level of a minimum of 1x EBITDA over the next 18 months by a combination of further capital returns to shareholders and targeted acquisitions.
Also reflecting this objective, the Board has rebased the dividend resulting in a 25% increase in our total dividend to 9.75p per share 2010: 7.80p per share, giving a final proposed dividend of 7.07p per share 2010: 5.22p per share.
This total dividend is covered 2.1x by profits.
We intend to pursue a policy of further increasing our dividend broadly in line with underlying EPS growth over time.
the trend of previous years and with more products and services sold through contracts, subscription revenues grew Key developments in the year ahead of software and software-related services, with 5% and 3% growth respectively 2010: 3% growth and 3% Leadership contraction respectively.
The business is now organised as 3 regions: Europe, North The external trading environment was mixed in the year, America and AAMEA Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia, although an improvement in comparison with 2010.
With managed by lvaro Ramrez, Pascal Houillon and Ivan Epstein the health of SMEs closely linked to that of the underlying respectively.
This new structure is designed to drive greater economies in which we trade, we have had to compete hard collaboration and efficiency, and we have seen early positive to win new sales of software.
Nevertheless, with our culture results, such as the adoption of a common technology of innovation, an established range of products, and the ability platform across the Group for online business solutions to provide real business benefits to customers through our for small businesses.
offerings, we were pleased to welcome 261,000 new paying We have also revised incentive plans for leadership customers to Sage in the year 2010: 252,000.
These across the Group so that a greater proportion of variable customers will be a key source of future subscription compensation is based on revenue growth, together with revenue for Sage.
We have already made progress against our objective of increasing margins in the medium term.
At the start of 2011, Innovation and technology we expected to maintain margins at the 2010 level as a result New technology developments mean there are significant of additional investment in the business.
This investment partly opportunities for Sage to deliver productivity gains to SMEs arose in Sage Healthcare, where margins were expected to through the use of our solutions.
For example, in combining fall, whilst our other, continuing operations planned a margin credit card processing and accounting, customers can avoid improvement.
Now that Sage Healthcare has been treated re-keying data, control their payments more effectively and as a discontinued operation, I am pleased to report an accelerate their own cash receipts.
As a result of this, we have increase in the EBITA margin of our continuing operations seen strong demand for our payment services, with crossto 27.4% in the year 2010: 26.4%.
selling of payments into our North American accounting base growing by over 40% in the year, contributing to 16% growth At the same time as increasing margins, we have invested in of our payments businesses across the Group.
the areas we set out at the start of the year, such as Sage ERP X3, customer service, online products and internal Our focus is on delivering real business benefits to customers systems, although we have delayed the adoption of our UK through the use of technology.
In the small business market payments platform in Mainland Europe until 2012 to give us we continue to develop new online SaaS business solutions, more time to focus on the resilience of the technology prior with the most significant launch being Sage One in the UK.
Whilst in 2012 we are prioritising investing in Launched in January 2011, Sage One already supports over growth opportunities over further margin expansion, we do 1,000 paying customers, the vast majority of which are new not regard 27% as a ceiling for margins in the longer term.
In addition, we are also developing a Group-wide technology platform based on Sage One, for further launches Our pre-tax profit rose by 8% in the year to 352.6m 2010: of accounting and other small business online solutions.
Our 326.6m, whilst underlying earnings per share in 2011 were priority is to launch a full small business online accounting 20.81p 2010: 17.88p, growth of 16%.
The underlying EPS product in North America, the market with the highest growth benefitted from the favourable resolution of some adoption of online accounting.
outstanding tax matters leading to a temporary reduction in our effective tax rate in the year to 23% 2010: 28%.
In the mid-market, the development of cloud versions of our leading products continues, and we expect several launches Capital structure and dividends in the next 12 months.
We have also launched over 20 Sage continues to be highly cash generative, and we are connected services this year, increasing the reach of our rigorous in allocating capital to business investment and on-premise products into the cloud.
We expect connected targeted acquisitions.
We also look to return surplus capital services to be a significant contributor to growth in the future.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 3
