Performance highlights Corporate responsibility CO2 and greenhouse gas GHG emissions effectively maintained at 2010 rate despite increase in activity Our approach Flaring and venting reduced by 69% through We aim to be a world class oil and gas business, improved process: well below the OGP average and we recognise that our approach to Corporate Tonnes of oil to environment per unit of production Responsibility CR is an important aspect of this well below the OGP average overall goal.
Our main areas of CR impact and opportunity comprise environmental matters, Oil in produced water per unit of production well health and safety issues, our employees, our local below the OGP average communities and our approach to business conduct.
Completed an independent review of HSE The achievement of our overall business aim is culture in operations and found we are better than clearly linked to our ability to manage all of these average when compared with other operators areas effectively.
in the region We appreciate, and take seriously, our Completed Group-wide roll-out and training responsibilities to conduct our operations safely programme around UK Bribery Act and in full co-operation with the communities in which we operate.
Management systems We ensure that the health and safety of our Salamander adopts a rigorous, top-down employees is protected: that our impact on the approach to Corporate Responsibility.
During 2011 environment is minimised: and that we can be the Group strengthened the leadership team through sensitive to the needs of, and provide long term the appointment of a Group Technical Director.
sustainable benefits for, the communities in which we With this, and the appointment of a new Chief operate.
We conduct all of our business in a fair Financial Officer, the organisational structure of the manner and comply fully with the relevant legal, Group was updated.
The Group CFO is responsible regulatory and international accord requirements for the legal and financial functions within which which apply to our businesses.
These include the UK responsibility for the risk register lies.
The Group Bribery Act, the International Labour Organisation COO is responsible for HSE, CP&L and HR functions Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights as well as the assets and the Group Technical Director at Work, the UN Universal Declaration on Human is responsible for the technical services provided Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational to the rest of the Group.
All of these roles report Enterprises, the International Finance Corporation directly to the Group Chief Executive.
Environmental and Social Performance Standards and the Equator Principles.
The Group benchmarks The Senior Management Team meets quarterly to its HSE performance against the Oil and Gas discuss management level issues and Health, Safety Producers OGP average.
and Environment are always key agenda items.
The Group HSE Advisor reports directly to the The Group CR Steering Committee continually Group COO and each of our operated assets has reviews its approach to this important area and seeks a dedicated HSE and CSR team to monitor activity to enhance our procedures accordingly.
and ensure Group guidelines are being followed.
A separate CSR steering committee, chaired by the Group Chief Executive, meets bi-annually to discuss the Groups investment in community based projects.
The committee monitors project performance against agreed objectives.
CSR Committees are also convened in the countries where we operate and report to the Group Steering Committee.
27 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Performance The Group has a rigorous set of HSE standards, procedures and guidelines that are made available to all employees via the Groups Intranet.
It is made Management systems continued clear to all employees and contractors that they are expected to adhere to these standards when The Group completes a stakeholder mapping engaging in any business related activity on behalf exercise on entering a new licence.
The results of of the company.
The Executive Directors reinforce this are used by our local community development this message with HSE review trips being conducted officers to determine with whom to engage.
The at least annually and their findings are reported engagement programme will typically include local back to the Board of Directors.
recruitment, communication of the Groups planned activity, meeting local officials and conducting town The number of man-hours operated increased by hall style meetings.
This process helps to identify 40% during 2011 when compared to 2010.
2011 was community development projects that meet the the Companys busiest year on its operated projects.
It was disappointing that three lost time injuries were recorded.
This represents a LTIFR of 0.85 for the year The UK Bribery Act became law in July 2011. which is in line with the OGP average for drilling The scope of the Act embraces all of the Groups operations, but behind the Groups goal of zero LTIs.
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive Although all three incidents were relatively minor, internal training programme with the Group CFO the Group completed full reviews into each LTI and and General Counsel conducting presentations in has ensured that appropriate action has been taken all offices to educate employees as to the new to mitigate against reoccurrence.
Further to this every employee has completed an online training An independent investigation was carried out in programme designed to improve understanding conjunction with the Indonesian authorities during the of the practical implications of this law.
Particular period, into an incident on the Kambuna condensate attention was paid to the issue of facilitation pipeline manifold station, where a gas leak occurred payments, which are specifically prohibited under during booster operations.
The causes were identified this legislation.
and all recommendations have been fully implemented.
The Company maintains whistle-blowing As a result of the higher than anticipated LTIFR and procedures which permit employees to report TRIFR in the first eight months of 2011, the Board any concerns they may have in confidence to instructed the HSE Advisor to conduct a review of our senior management team.
the circumstances behind each incident and to determine whether the increased incidence was a Health and safety consequence of flaws in the HSE management system and if there was a suitable and acceptable HSE culture Policy highlights developing within the Company.
The findings of the Salamander Energy will operate in accordance with review were that there is no fundamental flaw with the the following principles.
Groups HSE management system, the HSE culture evident at the operating sites is better than average We will promote a culture within the company in when compared with other operators in the region which all employees share a commitment to a and the culture is still developing.
healthy and safe workplace Following the review line managers have been We will comply with applicable laws and reminded of their responsibility to proactively promote regulations and apply recognised international the HSE culture and it has been made a key standards where laws and regulations are not performance indicator for the operating offices in place to increase the number of formal HSE visits Ensure that employees and contractors are and presentations that take place.
Additionally properly trained and aware of the importance the Companys management encourages of health and safety matters knowledge sharing around the Group to support improved performance.
28 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Performance Group health and safety KPIs Group-wide 2011 2010 Comment Lost Time Injury LTI 3 1 There were no fatalities recorded Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF 0.85 0.40 LTIF rate remains close to the OGP drilling average Total Recordable Injury TRI 12 5 Increased as man-hours worked increased Total Recordable Injury Rate 3.41 1.99 Investigation completed into spike in TRIR during the first three TRIR quarters of 2011 since when zero TRIs have been recorded Hours worked millions 3.5 2.5 40% increase in man-hours Group environmental KPIs Group-wide 2011 2010 Comment CO2 emissions tonnes 83,076 54,996 Increased as a direct result of increased level of operating activity CO2 emissions tonnes per 77 74 Marginal increase on a per unit basis despite 400% increase in thousand tonnes production fuel usage during busy exploration campaigns, balanced by the effect of two new vapour recovery units installed at Kambuna field.
Well below OGP average of 133 GHG emissions tonnes per 80 78 Well below OGP average of 158 thousand tonnes production Flaring and venting MMscf 47.0 151.3 69% reduction in flaring driven by introduction of two new vapour recovery units at Kambuna field Flaring and venting tonnes per 0.99 4.62 Well below OGP average of 15.5 thousand tonnes of production Oil and chemical spills 15 5 8 very small a few litres spills resulting from corrosion in the old pipeline used to export Kambuna condensate.
The condensate evaporates quickly which assists clean-up operations and minimises any environmental impact Oil and chemical spills 1.11 0.30 Increase as result of pipeline corrosion causes identified and total spilt tonnes action being taken to rectify Oil and chemical spills released to 1,293 327 Increase as result of pipeline corrosion causes identified and the environment tonnes action being taken to rectify Tonnes of oil to the environment per 1.02 0.26 Remains well below OGP average of 4.5 million tonnes of production Produced water discharged tonnes 19,900 2,951 Driven by pressure decline in Kambuna field as it reaches maturity Oil in produced water 0.80 0.15 Driven by pressure decline in Kambuna field as it discharged tonnes reaches maturity Oil in produced water 0.74 0.20 Well below OGP average of 9.1 tonnes per million tonnes production 29 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued development of the Bualuang oil field see Operating Review the Group will use produced gas as fuel on the new production processing facilities.
All produced water is already re-injected into the reservoir so there is no surface disposal of produced water.
Cuttings Health and safety continued generated during drilling operations are recovered Performance continued and sent ashore for incineration.
With these measures in place and the use of produced gas planned our In the six months since the completion of the review target is for Bualuang to be a minimal emissions there have been no lost time injuries or recordable installation in 2014. incidents on any Group operation despite continued high levels of operating activity, suggesting that the The Groups performance on flaring and venting, increased emphasis on HSE has had a direct and oil spilt to the environment and oil in produced water positive impact on the working culture.
is well within the Groups goal of being under the OGP averages.
Targets for 2012 The Group is committed to minimising the Zero fatalities environmental impact of its operations.
We obtain Zero LTIs all the relevant environmental permits prior to commencement of our operations and procedures TRIR 20% below OGP average are in place to monitor on-going operations.
Examples include monitoring sea water quality in the Environment Gulf of Thailand and soil quality and mineral levels in Policy highlights onshore locations in Indonesia.
Targets for 2012: Salamander Energy will operate in accordance with Keep CO2 and GHG emissions below OGP average the following principles.
Continue to seek ways of pollution prevention, We are committed to protecting and conserving emission reduction and improving the the environment in which we work environmental performance of our operations We will adhere to the International Finance Continue to work towards making our operations Corporations Performance Standards on Social at Bualuang minimal emissions in 2014 and Environmental Sustainability Business conduct We strive to meet the challenges presented to the oil and gas industry by climate change matters Policy highlights We strive to see viable ways to minimise the Salamander Energy will operate in accordance with environmental impact of our operations, reduce the following principles.
waste generation, conserve resources and respect We aim to treat all our stakeholders fairly and biodiversity with integrity We will comply with applicable laws and We will not tolerate any form of bribery and regulations and apply recognised international corruption within our business activities or within standards where laws and regulations are not business activities of those who perform services in place on our behalf Performance We will comply with applicable laws and The level of operated activity increased significantly regulations in particular the UK Bribery Act and in 2011 and the Group successfully maintained its apply recognised international standards where emissions at a constant rate on a unit basis despite a laws and regulations are not in place 400% increase in fuel usage.
The prime driver for this performance was the installation of new vapour recovery units at the Kambuna field, North Sumatra, which resulted in a 69% reduction in flaring.
The Group is constantly seeking ways to improve its emissions performance.
As part of its forward 30 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Business conduct continued The company is mindful of encouragement that UK listed companies are receiving to demonstrate greater Performance diversity amongst its employees at a senior level and During 2011 the Group updated its Code of intends to adopt the related reporting requirements Business Conduct to reflect the implementation indicated by the revised UK Corporate Governance into law of the UK Bribery Act.
As part of its response Code within our next annual report.
to the Act the Group also implemented an explicit Performance Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
Both documents are available to read at www.
At year-end 2011 the Group directly employed As part of the Groups roll-out of the new Code of 212 employees.
Of these employees 33% were Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy the female and 90% of the workforce was comprised of Groups Chief Financial Officer and Group General staff from the host countries of our operations.
Counsel visited all of the operating offices to deliver presentations outlining the Group policy and the Local communities implications for our employees.
As part of the Groups Policy highlights plans to heighten awareness of these policies and the behaviour expected, all employees were required Salamander Energy is committed to operation in to complete an online training programme.
accordance with the following principles: We will uphold the principles outlined in the UN Employees Universal Declaration on Human Rights Policy highlights We will behave responsibly and with sensitivity Salamander Energy is committed to upholding towards the local communities in the areas in which the principles outlined in the International Labour we operate Organisation Declaration on Fundamental We will provide sustainable benefits and avoid the Principles and Rights at Work.
These include the creation of a dependency culture four fundamental principles and rights at work which are outlined below.
Performance Freedom of association and the effective Building strong relationships with local communities recognition of the right to collective bargaining is of the utmost importance to the Group in order to preserve its licence to operate.
The Group adopts Elimination of all forms of forced or a pro-active approach to its community relations, compulsory labour seeking to engage with local stakeholders early in the Effective abolition of child labour operational planning stage and recognising any concerns issues.
The Group employs a number of Elimination of discrimination in respect to specialist government liaison and community liaison employment and occupation officers, usually people who are from the area of our The Group is an equal opportunity employer operations and have a detailed understanding of and is committed to achieving and maintaining a the local, national and regional environmental and workforce that represents the population as a whole social sensitivities.
and is compliant with applicable local laws and During 2011, in recognition of the importance contractual obligations.
The Company seeks to of the Greater Bualuang area to the Groups future employ individuals who are qualified on the basis growth, a concerted effort was made to further of merit and ability to fill its work positions regardless develop relationships with local communities who of gender, ethnic origin, colour, disability, marital have previously objected to a number of operators status, race, religion, nationality, age, responsibility offshore activities elsewhere in the Gulf of Thailand.
for dependants or sexual orientation.
Each employee, A new head of CSR for Thailand was recruited who consultant and contractor is expected to abide by is a specialist in this area having previously worked the Companys Equal Opportunities Policy at all for a major oil and gas company on CSR programmes stages of employment.
related to its operations in the Gulf of Thailand.
All employees and consultants are recruited and Through numerous engagements with the local promoted fairly on the basis of their ability for the job.
community, principally through town hall meetings 31 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued 2011 was the Groups first year as an operator in the Greater Kerendan area.
Here the challenge was to establish the Group within the local community.
As part of our social mapping we completed discussions with a wide range of stakeholders and Local communities continued it quickly became apparent that the local community Performance continued would like local access roads repaired so they can use them for transport during the dry season when with the key local stakeholders, the Group was the river the primary form of local transport is able to increase awareness and understanding of its impassable.
The Group completed road repairs near activities and the initiatives undertaken to mitigate two villages, Luwe Hulu and Muara Pari.
The main against any damage to the local environment.
This source of income in the area is from rubber farming process resulted in a request for the Group to run and following discussions with villagers in Kerendan first aid, CPR and diving workshops as local fishermen village Salamander opened a rubber nursery in the recognised that the safety of their own offshore village that has become a focal point for village life.
activities was a big risk for them.
The initial workshop These programmes have helped build the Groups was a success with over 70 attendees and the Group reputation with the villagers and ensured that plans to run similar workshops again in the future.
operations have, to date, proceeded with the full Plans are being developed in conjunction with the support of the community.
local communities and authorities for further projects in the area, one such being the creation of artificial Summary reefs that assist coral growth, provide new fish spawning grounds and attract divers, thus protecting With operated man-hours expected to continue natural reefs.
As a result of its developing relationship to increase there is no room for complacency in the with local stakeholders the Group was able to Groups approach to CR and HSE.
Following the complete its recent 3D seismic survey in the G4 50 first half of 2011, when the Groups HSE performance licence without disruption.
was below expectations, it is pleasing to see that our internal drive to reinforce our processes and The floods in Thailand during the fourth quarter procedures has led to a marked improvement in of 2011 caused widespread devastation and as part performance in the second half of the year.
This will of the community Salamander contributed to the continue to be an area of focus for us in 2012.
Not only did the Group provide a continue to strive to reduce emissions and are on $16,000 financial donation to the relief effort but target for our principal producing asset, the Bualuang a large number of employees gave up their time oil field, to be a minimal emissions facility by 2014. to help.
Our local teams are doing an excellent job in In Indonesia, the Group continued to build on building relationships with local stakeholders and its strong community relations.
There are wellthis helps the Group deliver projects that can established community operations in place in the benefit the local community and ensure that we Kambuna and North Kutei areas.
These have now retain support and understanding for our operations.
been running for several years and the Groups presence has resulted in increased employment Finally, we strive to be a good employer and opportunities for local people and improved corporate citizen and adhere to the International infrastructure through investment into projects to Finance Corporation Environmental and Social support and foster local development.
The Group Performance Standards and other globally recognised also supports local cultural festivals, which has standards of corporate conduct.
helped integrate it into the local community and generates support for its operational activities.
The strength of our reputation was highlighted in the wake of the pipeline fire near the village of Pangkalan Batu.
Despite four homes being burned down the Groups response to the incident, including the construction of four new homes, was well received by the local community and received positive comment in the local media.
32 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 1 1 Water sampling in the Babalan River, North Sumatra.
2 Air quality sampling at Kambuna.
3 Rubber nursery, Kerendan village, Central Kalimantan.
3 4 First-aid training for fisherman, Chumphon province, Thailand.
2 4 33 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
