Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Achievements within their community.
These are often long-standing relationships and involve employees volunteering their time, making financial UPDATED ThE GROUPS APPROACh TO bUSINESSEThICS donations and raising funds to help those in need of support within INTRODUCED REVISED hSE STRATEGY AND ObJECTIVES their local communities.
39% DECLINE IN ThE RATE Of LOST TIMEACCIDENTS Operating with integrity CO2 EMISSIONS REDUCED bY 3% The Board believes that operating in an ethically and socially responsible manner is an integral part of efficient and profitable business management.
The Group is committed to maintaining high The Groups approach to corporate social responsibility CSR is standards of ethical behaviour in all aspects of its business, and focused broadly on three key areas of activity: requires its employees and agents to act with integrity at all times.
developing employees by creating a working environment that TheGroup has operated a Code of Business Conduct the Code for attracts and retains the best people: many years.
During 2011, the Code was extensively revised to reflect operating with integrity by acting in an ethical and responsible recent legislative changes, such as the introduction of the UK Bribery manner: and Act.
Additionally, a separate code of business conduct for agents and company representatives was introduced.
ensuring safe working conditions and reducing the Groups environmental footprint by continuously improving the management The Code applies to Senior plc, all of its subsidiaries, joint ventures of health, safety and the environment HSE.
It is Group policy that business with third The Groups 2011 achievements in these key areas of CSR focus, parties shall always be conducted at arms length, in accordance with together with its objectives and targets identified for 2012 and beyond, the highest professional standards and in compliance with: the laws are shown in the table on page 37. ofthe country in which the Group operation is located: the laws of the country and other jurisdictions in which the business is being Developing employees transacted: and the Code.
The Group believes that the future success of the business is dependent upon creating an environment that attracts and retains the The Code states that employees must avoid situations in which their best people.
Central to this is a commitment to invest in the skills and personal interests may conflict, or appear to conflict, with those of the development of the Groups workforce, helping employees achieve Group in situations including: bribery and corruption: above normal their potential, and identifying and promoting talent from within.
levels of hospitality, promotional and other business expenditure: personal business interests: work for third parties: confidentiality of Equality and diversity information: and dealing in the shares of Senior plc.
In response to the Senior believes that employment-related decisions should always be UK Bribery Act 2010 coming into force, an online anti-bribery training based on relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities.
The Group promotes course has been developed for the Groups employees, to educate apolicy of equal opportunity in employment, without unlawful employees on this legislation, its potential impact on the Group and consideration of sex, race, nationality, age, disability, religion or any toreinforce what is or is not acceptable behaviour.
other category protected by law.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, the Groups aim is to ensure continued employment where The Group does not make donations to political parties, and employees possible, and to arrange appropriate training and career development.
are not permitted to use corporate funds for this purpose.
Charitable donations are permitted by the Groups operations and an official People development record of these is maintained.
The Group is committed to developing the skills of its 5,878 employees and in 2011 Senior enhanced its Group-wide training and development The Groups Head of Internal Audit is required to have regard to the programme.
The programme provides a range of management Code in his auditing activity, to continually review the Groups exposure andleadership training to the future leaders of the business and to ethical risks, and to report any infringement of the Code to the Group demonstrates Seniors investment in the future of its workforce.
Over Company Secretary and Audit Committee.
200 managers have benefited from this training programme to date with plans to extend the programme further.
Additionally, individual To strengthen the Code, Senior has a Whistle-blowing policy the training and development plans are also run by each operation, Policy to encourage employees to report any suspected unethical focusing on their local needs.
orillegal corporate conduct within the Group.
The Policy sets out the procedure for the confidential reporting and investigation of any Pay and remuneration suspected misconduct.
The Code and the Policy are issued to all new Each operation looks to offer competitive remuneration packages to employees as part of the induction process, and are subsequently itsemployees, dependent upon the skills, qualifications and experience reissued to existing employees on a periodic basis.
The whistleof each individual and local market conditions.
blowing reporting procedure is also publicised at each of the Groups sites and is available for use by third parties, such as suppliers and Contributing to communities customers, to report any ethical concerns that they may have.
The Groups operations are encouraged to involve themselves in their local communities and to support local charities.
These relationships are normally managed at a local level, where the employees typically select non-profit-making organisations and charitable interests active Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 35 Corporate social responsibility continued health, safety and the environment Environment To lead and oversee the Groups safety and environmental objectives, The Group is committed to minimising its environmental impact by Senior operates a Health, Safety and Environment Committee which improving environmental management processes, and driving energy meets quarterly.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief and resource efficiency.
Seniors most significant environmental impact Executive, who leads the Boards efforts in improving the Groups is in the form of CO2 emissions.
In 2011, the Group emitted 60,537 ethical, social, health, safety and environmental performance and is tonnes of CO2: when normalised to sales, this represents a 3% also responsible for external stakeholder issues.
The chief executives reduction compared to 2010.
The Groups largest source of CO2 of the Groups three divisions also sit on the Committee.
emissions is its energy usage and in acknowledgment of this, a 5-year target was established in 2010 to improve energy efficiency by 10%.
The basis of Seniors HSE programme is set out in the Groups In2011, the Group made an important first step towards this goal by Environmental Health and Safety Charter the Charter.
The Charter improving energy efficiency by 4%.
has an established set of principles, practices and programmes that each operation should adhere to, providing a sound foundation for the Water usage and waste generation represent the Groups other HSE management process throughout the Group.
A core component significant environmental impacts.
The Groups main water uses of the Charter is the development of local safety and environmental aredriven by production processes, such as material cleaning and improvement plans that each operation is required to develop annually.
To reflect changes in production, Senior now Verification of each operations plans, programmes and performance measures its water consumption against sales revenue.
In 2011, isconducted through a Group HSE audit programme.
theGroup used 0.40 mega litres per 000 of sales, representing a slightincrease on 2010 0.36mega litres per 000 sales.
The main Health and safety reason for the increase was a change in product mix at the Groups The Groups goal remains zero occupational injuries.
were reductions in the number of recordable injuries and those which incurred lost time for the fifth year in a row.
Although the trend In 2011, the total amount of waste generated by the Group was 10,308 continues to move in the right direction, the Group recognises that tonnes, a reduction on the 2010 levels despite the growth in Group there will always be work that can be done to improve matters further.
The Group has steadily increased the amount of waste which is recycled and this trend continued in 2011, with over three-quarters Whilst Senior is pleased to report a year of continued improvement in ofthe waste being recovered or reused.
safety metrics, the Board is saddened to report the death of a roofing contractor at one of its UK operations in December 2011.
Following the Looking forward incident, a formal structured investigation was undertaken.
A series of To help the Group further improve its safety performance, theGroup actions have been communicated across the Group and will be monitored introduced a series of strategic goals and actions in 2011, including with the aim of preventing a reoccurrence of this tragic incident.
training for safety leadership along with the development of tools, guidance and training to enhance workplace ergonomics, the single most significant type of workplace injury.
The Group will further strengthen its approach to business ethics with the introduction of a Group-wide ethics training programme.
Injury rates 2006-2011 injuries per 100 employees CO2 to m sales Total recordable injury rate Lost time injury rate 114 8.88 110 104 99 97 94 6.51 4.96 4.44 3.75 3.59 2.77 2.55 1.94 1.61 1.60 0.98 06 07 08 09 10 11 06 07 08 09 10 11 36 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Tonnes of CO2 versus sales m Per 100 employees Overview business review Governance financial statements Other information Operating with integrity in an ethical, environmentally and socially sustainable manner is core to the future successes of the Group.
How our people perform is as important as how our products operate.
key areas of CSR focus 2010 2011 Objectives and Targets Environment 2 Energy efficiency MWh M turnover 207 MWh m turnover by 2014 223 214 3 Scope 1 GHG tCO2e 8,801 9,409 Incorporated within energy efficiency target 4 Scope 2 GHG tCO e As per Scope 1 2 42,890 44,146 5 Scope 3 GHG tCO2e 3,102 6,982 As per Scope 1 Tonnes CO2 emitted per 1m of revenue As per Scope 1 96.65 94.47 Water usage in megalitres 206 256 Waste generated in tonnes 10,413 10,308 Percentage of waste recycled or recovered 74% 76% To increase the percentage of waste recycled or recovered to 80% by 2015 Safety Total Recordable Injury Rate measures the number Reduce the 2010 Total Recordable Injury Rate by 20% 3.75 3.59 of injuries per 100 employees by 2015 Lost Time Injury Rate tracks the number of injuries 1.60 0.98 Reduce the 2010 Lost Time Injury Rate by 20% by 2015 per 100 employees with one day or more away from work business ethics and compliance Revise and reissue Code of Business Conduct Corporate training for ethics and integrity to be rolled out Completed during 2012 Investigate 100% of all complaints received Undertaken Maintain standard regarding whistle-blowing 2 The energy efficiency is a measure of the Groups energy consumption relative to sales.
The baseline for the 10% improvement is the 2009 data.
These targets exclude the impact of any new acquisitions.
3 Scope 1 GHG emissions emanate from direct sources which Senior own and operate, such as natural gas or oil furnaces.
4 Scope 2 GHG emissions emanate from indirect sources, such as purchased electricity.
5 Scope 3 GHG emissions result from support and ancillary activities, including business travel, movement of goods and waste disposal.
Some of this data is based on estimated values.
In 2011 the Group adopted a more comprehensive method for evaluating the CO2 emissions of the waste materials it disposes of: this is reflected in the increased Scope 3 emissions.
6 The increase in water usage is explained on page 36.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 37
