Section 2 | Our business A values-led and responsible business A values-led business Serco could not succeed without the skill and dedication of our people around the world.
They embody our culture and our values, which underpin the way we run the Company.
Our values, which are encapsulated in our Governing Principles, inform every decision we make.
They ensure that we deliver the excellent service on which our success depends.
The Governing Principles are integral to the Serco Management System SMS, which is our mandatory management framework within which all parts of Serco must operate.
Each policy area in the SMS reflects one or more of our Governing Principles, which means that working within the SMS ensures we are living our values.
Our Governing Principles 1 We foster an entrepreneurial culture 2 We enable our people to excel We are passionate about building innovative and Our success comes from our commitment and successful Serco businesses.
We succeed by energy to go the extra mile.
We are responsible encouraging and generating new ideas.
We trust to each other and can expect support when we our people to deliver.
We embrace change and, by need it most.
We expect our people to achieve taking measured risks, encourage creative thinking.
more by recognising and harnessing the power of individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, ideas and potential to contribute.
18 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 A responsible business Our Governing Principles emphasise the importance of corporate responsibility CR.
We want to be good corporate citizens but acting responsibly is also essential to our strategy.
Only by working in the right way can we deliver excellent service, continue to build our balanced contract portfolio and attract the partners with whom we create new contracting models.
We divide CR into four pillars health and safety, people, community and the environment.
The work we do for our customers encompasses all four pillars, but there are many things we do which go beyond our contractual or legal requirements.
Our approach to CR also shapes the way we do business with our suppliers and partners.
For more on our approach to CR and our performance during the year, see pages 66 to 69 and our separate CR Report for 2011, which is available on www.
com cr2011 3 We deliver our promises 4 We build trust and respect We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
We build respect by operating in a safe, socially We only promise what we can deliver.
If we make responsible, consistent and honest manner.
mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about We never compromise on safety and we always what we need to achieve and we expect to make operate in an ethical and responsible manner.
In doing so, we treat others as we would wish to be treated ourselves and challenge when we see something is wrong.
We integrate with our communities.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 19 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Overview
