Section 3 | Our performance People Sercos growth means that the number of people we employ is continually increasing.
This year we welcomed 40,000 people into the Serco family.
This means we need a clear framework for managing and developing our people, so we can help them to be as good as they can be and to enable us to deliver great service to our customers.
Our people strategy therefore has three components.
This relates to intellectual and personal capacity.
We want leaders who can solve complex problems, take a long-term view, develop leaders who are fit for the future and who will thrive as inspire and influence others, focus on outcomes, innovate, be Serco grows resilient and be adaptable to a situations needs.
employ people who bring service to life, who are fully integrated Hands.
This covers skills, knowledge and experience.
We want and engaged with Serco and who we can develop to achieve our leaders to be skilled at shaping and delivering the plans and their full potential, and capabilities that will drive our performance and growth.
make it easier to manage our people by continually enhancing Behind each of these components is a further set of criteria, our systems and processes.
which explain in detail the desired behaviours and the standards against which we appraise our leaders performance.
Developing our leaders As a devolved and fast-growing organisation, Serco needs capable  and motivated leaders who have the potential to grow with us.
They In 2011, we once again undertook leadership talent reviews are responsible for managing operations, securing our growth and across Serco.
The reviews were led by our Chief Executive, Group creating the environment in which our people can do what they do Human Resources Director and the respective Divisional CEOs best: serve customers with passion and skill.
The way they lead is or Corporate Functional Directors.
The key areas of focus were: as important as what they deliver.
understanding our current leadership capability Our leadership model is known as H Heart, Head and Hands.
These components describe how great leaders in Serco behave, future requirements to support our growth agenda with an emphasis on our Governing Principles and our customers.
the depth of our talent pipeline, and The components of the model are summarised as: the depth of succession cover for the Global Management Heart.
This covers our leaders motives and demonstration Team GMT.
The GMT is made up of around 80 of our most of our Governing Principles.
We want them to create our culture senior leaders.
through personal example and to have the courage to stand by their convictions.
62 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 We also launched a global talent management database,  to improve access to and analysis of the leadership This programme allows GMT members to request mentoring from information and talent metrics captured in the talent reviews.
either the Executive Committee or Serco Alumni Masters, who are retired Serco Directors who act as consultants for bids and the Serco has several programmes to further strengthen our Group generally.
Around one third of GMT members have taken talent pipeline: advantage of this so far, with mentoring lasting for three to six months.
the Emerging Leaders Programme provides training and development to employees who apply or who are identified as Integrating, engaging and developing our people future leaders.
The programme began in the UK and is being We are dependent on the skill and enthusiasm of our people.
They rolled out internationally, with a first cohort selected in the enable us to deliver great service to our customers and contribute Middle East this year considerably to the strength of our reputation and ability to grow.
the Future Leaders Group identifies a small number of We therefore need to integrate new joiners, effectively engage with emerging leaders that are considered to have the greatest all our people and help them achieve their potential.
Over the course of a year, they have regular contact their outstanding achievements through our global Pulse Awards.
with the Executive Committee and are able to get involved in the business Integratingnewpeople Sercos growth means that thousands of people can join us every the Fast Tracker programme identifies candidates including year.
The increase in 2011 was unprecedented, with our employee external individuals who have between two and five years numbers rising by 40,000 to more than 100,000, driven in particular work experience and want to accelerate their careers by taking by the acquisitions we made, as well as new contracts won that on work placements became operational during the year.
Leadership Academy GMT development curriculum The Welcome Experience helps new joiners become part of Serco.
The GMT development curriculum has been created as part of This is a range of materials and events which ensure that joining our Leadership Academy.
The curriculum is organised around Serco is welcoming and engaging, and is in addition to any the needs of three distinct groups: newly recruited GMT members: induction at a local level.
The materials include: established GMT members: and GMT members who have advanced or specialist requirements.
The aim is that all GMT members will have a minimum of 35 hours of development each year, captured in a continuous professional development scheme.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 63 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance People Discover Serco Passports, which help guide and direct new people  We once again undertook our annual global employee survey, the People Pack, which helps new leaders understand the called Viewpoint.
This gives us important insights into how we importance of their role and the tools available to enable them can improve the working experience at Serco, resulting in greater to be a great leader engagement with our people and enhanced service for customers.
Discover Serco e-learning, which is available for any new Results from the survey show trends and areas on which to focus.
employee through the Serco Business Academy, and An online tool gives materials to cascade and enables managers to prepare action plans to drive improvement.
We are developing case studies that highlight engagement best We want to ensure that everyone in Serco understands and lives practice and which will help our managers put the associated ideas our values.
The best way of demonstrating our values is for our into practice.
We are also studying the links between employee people to see them in action.
Our leaders have a key role to play, engagement and vital aspects of our business performance, by making decisions in accordance with our values.
We also such as customer advocacy and our financial results.
prioritise communication with our people, particularly in the transition phase after we have won a contract, so that they Serco continues to support the UK governments Engagement understand Serco and the way we work.
We have seconded a Serco leader to the taskforce to contribute to this initiative and to coordinate one of the taskforce Our approach and the outcome is the same around the world.
groups, building best practice in employee engagement.
While there are always cultural differences between countries, our values are universal and our people embrace them wherever they Developing our people are based.
Developing our people is critical if we are to enable them to excel, which is one of our Governing Principles.
Development ranges Integrating acquisitions from informal on-the-job training through to specialist and technical We made several acquisitions in 2011, including Intelenet, training.
We use a blended learning approach, with a balance The Listening Company and Excelior.
From a people perspective, of face-to-face and web-based learning.
the integration activities we undertook included reorganising management, mapping leadership roles onto Sercos levels of Management Foundations programme leadership, reviewing key capabilities and communicating with The Management Foundations programme, aimed at developing employees, including briefing them about Serco.
values-led management, continues to be very successful.
The programme was developed in the UK and is being expanded 64 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 internationally, with our Middle East operations now offering it.
Empower will ultimately give our people A further five training modules are in the process of being written.
greater visibility of career opportunities within Serco and provide better access to their personal information.
In addition, we are creating a Leadership Foundations programme.
This will be a two-day programme, aimed at a level above Empower includes what we call the HR Backbone, a standard Management Foundations.
global application that will hold core people data from all of our operations and give us a comprehensive view of our employee Recognising achievement population.
During the second half of 2011, the HR Backbone went Our Pulse Awards are designed to celebrate the very best qualities live in the UK, Europe, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and part and achievements of Serco people, our customers and partners.
The awards are closely linked to our Governing Principles.
They recognise people who excel at innovation, inspire through their We are now developing the next Empower application, Common leadership, demonstrate outstanding commitment and make an Core People Management, which will incorporate a greater range exceptional impact on communities, the environment or in areas of information and tools, including My HR self-service functions such as safety and ethics.
Forty-eight individuals and teams will that employees can use to maintain their personal information and receive an award for their work in 2011. book annual leave online.
The self-service tool will give managers better visibility and control of their team information, the ability Managing our people to carry out people management activities online, and access We continually look to improve our efficiency, including the ways to reports to support planning and decision-making.
We have also we manage our people.
Our aim is to have intuitive, easy-to-use created a new People Management Operating Model, which will tools, processes and systems which make it easier to manage our ensure that we deliver expert HR services consistently across growing workforce and deliver even higher levels of productivity Serco.
These activities will allow us to implement shared service and service as a result.
delivery and to develop capabilities that came to Serco through the acquisition of Intelenet.
A change programme called Empower is transforming how we manage people across our business.
By introducing new systems, The full Empower functionality is now live in Australia and will tools and ways of working, Empower will help us to support our be introduced across the UK, North America and the Middle East business and our customers with the right people, with the right in the second quarter of 2012.
Objectives and performance 2011 Objective Result Comment To make it easier to Ongoing The Empower programme represents a significant investment by Serco in improving the manage people.
The focus effectiveness of its workforce by developing and embedding a common best practice in people will be to develop and management globally.
The programme will deliver standard global processes for managing implement the programme people, supported by common IT systems and new shared services.
At the heart of these called Empower systems is a single global database of our workforce, providing us with one source of truth Transforming People about our people.
This was successfully rolled out, on time, across the UK, Europe and Hong Management.
Kong in the first half of the year and then in Australia in November.
Additional software to support staff scheduling and self-service has been deployed first in Australia, and full roll-out of Empower to all countries will be completed in the first half of 2012.
To develop leaders who are Ongoing During 2011, we extended our talent review and development process throughout the pipeline fit for the future.
We will be of developing and existing leaders.
Development programmes have been introduced that take looking to further embed leaders from their early days with Serco and support their progress throughout their career.
the talent review and This end-to-end curriculum now includes The Fast Tracker Programme, the Emerging Leaders succession planning Programme called Aspire, The Management Foundations programme, The Future Leaders process across a wider Group, the Leadership Academy for the Global Management Team and the emergence of proportion of our functional programmes such as the Finance Global Curriculum.
The Executive Committee management population.
set the example this year by undertaking its own development programme with Professor Bill George of the Harvard Business School.
To engage and motivate Ongoing The 2011 employee engagement survey, Viewpoint, tells us much about maintaining employee employees to bring service engagement as we manage tougher trading conditions in some of our businesses and continue to life.
We will continue to to grow in others.
The Viewpoint process has given us a strong platform to further improve research and analyse the the way we run our business through creating meaningful dialogue across the Company.
link between engagement Our surveys are followed up by action plans across the business that are developed and and performance.
owned by local managers and aimed at addressing the key issues raised by their employees.
2012objectives To make it easier to manage people by implementing a single To motivate and engage employees to bring service to life by HR programme and common core processes linking engagement to performance To develop leaders who are fit for the future by embedding the talent review and succession planning process across a wider proportion of our management population Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 65 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
