Section 2 | Our business What we offer our customers Serco operates in a broad and growing range Specialist and transferable skills We combine our service and change management capability of markets.
We can do this because our with the specialist skills our markets need, whether that means the experience of people-led service delivery and knowledge of how to reduce reoffending, to deliver excellent clinical change management can be applied to so services, to design and operate innovative transport systems or to many public and private sector organisations.
provide mission-critical services to the military.
We transfer our specialist skills between markets, so that customers People-led service delivery and gain from expertise we have honed in some of the worlds most change management sophisticated markets, and bring together unique combinations Our customers want more reliable, efficient and productive services.
of skills from across Serco, to create innovative solutions to Increasingly, they are looking for end-to-end solutions that combine customers problems.
frontline capability with middle and back office operations, helping them to drive efficiency and better quality services.
Increasingly we work in partnership with our customers, other companies or third-sector organisations.
This allows us to draw We start by analysing their problems and producing a bespoke on skills that together meet the contracts precise requirements.
solution, with improved people management at its heart.
Focus on excellent service This means that we design organisations to: Whatever service we provide, our focus is always on delivering excellence for our customers.
We devolve responsibility to our remove bureaucracy contract directors, so they can act quickly and decisively to meet our customers needs.
enhance processes How we work is as important to us as what we do.
The Serco instil our values, and Management System sets out our approach to everything, from health and safety to our business ethics.
And our Governing free people to deliver their best.
Principles see pages 18 and 19 underpin the thousands of decisions our people make each day, ensuring that we always act In particular, we: responsibly.
Our culture and way of working frees our people to put their service ethos into action.
use technology to increase efficiency Building long-term relationships invest throughout the contracts life, so our services keep pace Our focus on excellent service comes with a desire to continuously with developments improve.
We are always looking to do better, to be more productive and to find new ways to help our customers.
make the best use of our customers assets, so we are as cost-effective as possible, and We aim to build long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with our customers.
The closer we are, the better we understand their share best practice and compare performance across contracts, goals.
When our contracts come up for rebid or extension, we retain at to help us constantly improve.
least 90% of them, reflecting the value that we deliver for customers.
Our customers also frequently expand our contracts, as they see the benefits of our work at first hand.
12 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
