Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Achieving our vision to be the worlds greatest service company requires us to work in the right way and to meet our responsibilities to customers, the public, our employees, partners and suppliers.
As a result, corporate responsibility CR is part of who we are and how we behave.
Further information available online www.
com Above: Sally Hughes, one of our former apprentices, now teaches engineering and underwater safety at Royal Navy Air Station Yeovilton.
We divide our approach into four pillars people, health and within the SMS, so each of the systems policy areas reinforces safety, community and the environment.
Our work for customers one or more aspects of our principles.
encompasses all of these areas, but there are many things we do which go beyond our contractual or legal requirements.
Our Code of Conduct helps to embed the SMS into our working culture by providing an overview of the behaviour we expect from Our approach to managing our responsibilities is summarised our staff.
Last year, we launched a training programme to give our below.
We also publish a Corporate Responsibility Report each people guidance on the ethical issues associated with our Code year, which gives more detail of our activities and the way of Conduct and the UK Bribery Act.
we embed CR in our business.
The full report is available at www.
com CR2011 Our people Pages 62 to 65 explain our people strategy, our 2011 initiatives Managing corporate responsibility to improve the ways in which we develop, engage, motivate and Serco is a devolved organisation, which operates in multiple markets manage them, and our objectives for 2012. around the world.
Our Group CR model provides overall guidance but our business units have the flexibility to implement regional and Health and safety local strategies that meet the needs of their stakeholders.
Our aspiration is to achieve zero harm.
Nothing we do is so urgent or important that we cannot do it safely.
Responsibility for shaping and delivering our overall CR strategy rests at the very top of our organisation.
The Health, Safety and Wherever they work and whatever their role, our people must Environment Oversight Group reports to the plc Board through adhere to stringent health and safety procedures.
These procedures the Group Risk Management Committee.
The Human Resources are embedded in the SMS and are the minimum standards that Directors forum ensures the best governance of our people, must be applied.
To maintain these standards, we audit ourselves while community activities are overseen by the Community against them, looking for best practices that we can apply more Investment Forum, which also reports through the Executive widely within our business.
We address any inadequate Committee to the plc Board.
performance and put in place new, better practices.
During 2011, we reviewed and relaunched the Serco Management As part of the SMS refresh, we have reviewed and updated our health, System SMS globally, to ensure it was properly aligned to our safety and environment HSE policy.
In brief, this means we now: business and strategy.
The system provides accountability and effective controls and provides the framework within which we define policy and procedures to protect the environment and operate and behave.
The Governing Principles are embedded the health and safety of those to whom we owe a duty of care 66 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 meet and, where appropriate, exceed any legal and other A strong HSE performance ensures the safety of our staff and can requirements that apply help to distinguish us in the market and enhance our reputation.
This demands consistent, co-ordinated and properly resourced identify and assess HSE hazards, impacts and risks from our initiatives, driven from within the business, with best practice shared activities and services across the Group.
set HSE objectives and targets that reflect legal requirements We already have an effective HSE management system and processes and any identified risks, and show that we are seeking to but to drive consistency and efficiency, we are working to implement continuously improve a single, company-wide HSE integrated management system.
consider the input of employees and others when Serco operates in a number of safety-critical areas that are heavily making decisions on HSE matters, and understand local regulated, which places stringent requirements upon us.
We have sustainability challenges the systems in place to deliver these requirements and this is develop and introduce plans to agreed objectives and manage reflected in the regulatory approvals and licences we have to identified risks operate under.
This also means that we have regular regulatory oversight.
Together, these factors give us a strong controls identify, train and use necessary, competent resources within framework with which to manage our HSE responsibilities.
a defined structure and allocate HSE responsibilities to people who have the necessary skills In 2011, Serco businesses, contracts and joint ventures in the UK were awarded 24 accolades by the Royal Society for the Prevention investigate and report on incidents to identify areas where of Accidents.
Our contract at RAF Fylingdales was granted the we need to make improvements and prevent further problems Order of Distinction, an award that marks the contracts sixteenth successive Gold Award.
Presidents Awards, given in recognition monitor, review and report on our performance at group, division of high levels of safety maintained over a number of years, were and contract level, measured against set objectives and targets bestowed upon other Serco services, including the joint venture at regularly review our systems suitability and effectiveness, identify the Atomic Weapons Establishment and for marine services to the any procedural improvements needed, and share best practice.
Objectives and performance 2011 Objective Result Comment To continue focusing on Target We achieved an LTIR of 1,000, a reduction of 15.9% against 2010 1,189 and 37.2% lower reducing our lost time than the 2008 baseline 1,593.
The LTIR has received significant management attention.
on plan incident rate LTIR.
A number of initiatives, particularly focused around our higher-risk custodial and transportation We aim to be back on businesses, improved our performance in 2011.
This performance improvement was also trajectory to reach our helped by the acquisition of Intelenet, which added a large number of staff in low-risk roles.
target of a 50% reduction However, there has been a negative shift in the risk profile in some of our higher-risk business in our LTIR against the areas.
For example, our immigration business has grown in scale as well as seeing an increase 2008 benchmark by in detention periods, resulting in more assaults and injuries to our people.
This is an important the end of 2012. area of focus in 2012.
The longer-term trend remains positive.
Along with a reduction in incidents, the average number of days lost per incident reduced in 2011 by 30% against 2010.
To continue focusing Target Our reportable incident rate was 577 per 100,000 employees, a reduction of 18.8% from 2010 on reducing reportable met 711 and 42.2% lower than our 2008 baseline 999.
As with our improvement in lost time incidents RI.
Based on incidents, this has been helped by the addition through acquisition of a large number of staff current performance, we in low-risk roles.
Whilst we have achieved our target a year early, we will continue to drive further have revised our target reductions, particularly in our transport and immigration businesses where some risk factors are to 599 to reflect a 40% increasing.
Recognising this changing risk profile, we are keeping our target at a rate of 599 and reduction in staff RI rate aim to remain just under this level.
by the end of 2012 against the 2008 benchmark.
To develop systems and Ongoing We continue to strengthen our data capture processes through ASSURE, our intranet-based processes to manage and data capture system.
During 2011, more than 33,000 events were entered on ASSURE.
monitor near-miss events With this improved data available, we will consider an appropriate baseline during 2012 and more effectively.
Our target consider specific objectives.
remains to establish a baseline for future improvements for 2012.
2012objectives To achieve an LTIR of 796, a 50% reduction against the To establish a baseline of near-miss events against which future 2008 baseline performance can be tracked To achieve a 40% reduction in the staff reportable incident rate against the 2008 baseline Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 67 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 3 | Our performance Corporate responsibility Right: Puppy training at Southern Queensland Correctional Centre, Australia, supports rehabilitation of prisoners and helps people with disabilities.
Community In the UK, the governments drive to reduce youth unemployment Sercos devolved structure helps us to integrate into the has seen the launch of a new work experience scheme aimed at communities in which we operate, and our aim is to have a positive 1824 year olds.
The scheme targets the creation of 100,000 work and lasting impact on them.
We do this by employing local people experience placements of two to eight weeks in length over the next when we can, providing training opportunities and work experience, two years.
Serco has committed to offering 1,000 placements and and by using local suppliers where possible.
Our commitment is reflected in our target to reinvest 1% of our Serco is also taking part in an industry-led initiative, supported pre-tax profits into wider society.
Last year, we invested 2,532,175 by the UK government, to develop an online careers platform for through donations to community projects and charities, as well as young people.
This will provide a single starting point for young the donation of assets and time.
people to explore their work ambitions and to plan how to achieve them.
The website will be launched in 2012.
Across Serco, our people engage in many different activities, as individuals or as part of the wider Serco community.
These activities Our results in the 2011 Business in the Community Corporate range from local community projects, such as volunteering to help Responsibility Index, the UKs leading benchmark of corporate homeless people, to raising money to help international disaster responsibility, reflect the difference we make.
Serco was rated relief efforts, such as the floods in Thailand.
We also support Gold for the sixth year running, while our community investment organisations whose work touches our own, such as the Military benefits and impact was rated 100% across all five areas that Child Education Coalition in the US, which helps children affected were measured.
by their parents relocation and deployment.
Objectives and performance 2011 Objective Result Comment To continue to invest 1% Target We invested 2,532,175, representing 1.06% of our pre-tax profits.
of our pre-tax profits met into society.
To continue to promote the Ongoing In the UK, we have continued to engage with the theme of employability through the promotion theme of employability.
of work experience and apprenticeship opportunities within our business.
Working with JobCentre Plus, we have identified and made available 1,000 work experience placements for young people and currently have 1,400 apprentices in training.
To continue to develop our Ongoing During 2011, a UK internal advisory group was formed whose members are experienced in relationships with charities, working with third sector organisations.
This forum meets as and when required to consider social enterprise and Sercos relationships with the third sector as partners and suppliers.
To promote employee Ongoing The promotion of employee volunteering remains a high priority for our businesses and is volunteering.
embedded within the Business Ethics and Conduct section of the Serco Management System.
CR strategies for our businesses in the Americas and Australia, for example, clearly articulate a need to develop employee volunteering.
In the UK, our contracts continue to support on a case-by-case basis employees who request time off to volunteer.
Ongoing During 2011, the UK developed a relationship with Payroll Giving in Action, to develop a communications campaign to encourage employee giving, to be implemented during 2012.
Employee giving is also a high priority for our businesses in the US, Australia, New Zealand and India.
2012objectives To continue to invest 1% of pre-tax profits back into wider society To promote employee volunteering To continue to promote the theme of employability To promote payroll giving To continue to develop our relationships with third sector partners 68 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Right: We provide environmental services to UK local authorities that help improve their environmental performance.
Environment Sercos aspiration for zero harm applies as much to the environment as it does to health and safety.
Our environmental policy is driven by the desire to do what is right for the world we live in and because it makes good business sense to protect our reputation and reduce our energy consumption and environmental impact.
Although Sercos activities are typically managed at a local level, we are united in our strategy of measuring our impact and reducing our environmental footprint.
This supports many initiatives in our Our environmental efforts are reflected in the recognition we operations around the world.
These range from reducing water receive.
In the UK, we achieved Carbon Trust Standard certification usage in Australia, to improving recycling levels at US contracts at the beginning of 2011, as a result of our work to reduce carbon and reducing electricity use in UK prisons.
We also improved our position in the UKs Carbon Disclosure Project FTSE 350 report, which measures carbon We also have contracts that help our customers to improve disclosure and performance.
Our score rose from 78% in 2010 their environmental performance.
For example, Serco provides to 88% and we were placed in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership environmental services to UK local authorities, which help our Index.
Serco was also one of only seven organisations to achieve customers to reduce the volumes of waste sent to landfill sites.
band A the highest in the Carbon Performance Leadership Index.
Objectives and performance 2011 Objective Result Comment To achieve a 15% reduction Target Our UK business generates around 80% of our CO emissions.
We reduced our emissions 2 in CO tonnes m revenue met relative to revenue by a further 3.5% in the UK, giving us a cumulative reduction against our 2 against the 2008 benchmark 2008 baseline of 14.8%.
To retain the Carbon Target We retained the Carbon Trust Standard in 2011, reflecting our commitment to reducing Trust Standard.
2012objectives To achieve an 18% reduction in our UK businesss CO 2 tonnes m revenue against the 2008 benchmark To retain the Carbon Trust Standard Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 69 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
