42 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee The purpose of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee is to provide board oversight of the management of all non-financial risks to the group.
The structure for our CR policy and framework is based around the four areas of Workplace, Marketplace, Environment and Community, providing a common framework for both our businesses regulated and non-regulated.
The framework remains under review as we continue to integrate corporate responsibility into our core business operations for both Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
For each of the areas, there are four goals within our CR policy which help to focus improvements in our performance.
Within our CR framework, we have identied 10 focus areas that are critical to our management of risk and reputation.
These areas have been determined through stakeholder dialogue, risk assessment and benchmarking within the water industry and the FTSE 100.
The 10 areas provide the focus of the forward agenda of our CR Committee.
Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman of the Corporate Workplace: Responsibility Committee Health, safety and wellbeing.
Employee skills, conduct and motivation.
Marketplace: The Committee provides guidance and Customer needs including vulnerable customers.
direction to the groups corporate responsibility CR programme, reviews Environment: the groups key non-financial risks and Environmental stewardship.
Climate change opportunities and monitors progress.
The terms of reference for the Committee Community: can be found on the companys website Community engagement.
Working with our customers including pollution www.
com and are also prevention and water efficiency.
available from the Company Secretary.
These focus areas also determine our approach to working in collaboration with other The Committee reviews annually the organisations who share mutual interests and objectives.
Further information is available on groups formal whistleblowing policy that our corporate website www.
deals with allegations from employees relating to breaches of the Code of Within Severn Trent Water we have an effective performance management system in place Conduct and reviews at each of its through 18 core business Key Performance Indicators KPIs and eight KSIs.
These are meetings the whistleblowing incident log.
overseen by the Severn Trent Executive Committee and the board.
Many of the business KPIs relate directly to our CR focus areas and therefore contribute signicantly to our CR performance.
We report internally on our performance through both our Executive Committee and our CR Committee.
Externally, we report through a number of channels including our annual June Return our regulatory submission to Ofwat, our websites and our Annual Report and Accounts.
The members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman, Gordon Fryett and Tony Wray.
Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance in 2010 11 Dr Bernard Bulkin 3 3 Gordon Fryett 3 3 Tony Wray 3 3
