SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report SIG believes that the progressive integration of Corporate Responsibility across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in Shareholder value.
SIG believes that the progressive integration of Corporate Responsibility CR across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in Shareholder value.
SIG continues to be a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, and recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
The Company continues to develop its approach to CR and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CR performance reporting.
Through the CR Committee set up in 2009, the SIG Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the FTSE Group confirms that SIG plc has been independently assessed according business of the Group and it has in place a comprehensive risk management to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become and internal control process which identifies and assesses the significant risks to a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index the Companys short and long term value arising from such matters.
The Board company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate receives a report on CR issues at each of its Board meetings and reviews CR responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met strategy.
CR issues also form part of the overall internal control process and are stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise covered in the training of Directors.
on the benefits of responsible business practice.
As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for thermal insulation.
SIG has in place a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
In addition we have in place a Group-wide Anti-corruption Policy and Ethical Trading and Human Rights Policy.
These policies underpin our CR programme and support our business integrity.
The policies are reviewed regularly.
The three year rolling CR plan, maintained by the CR Committee, continues SIG is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to develop its approach and practices.
to inform the objectives and target actions of the Group and drives continual improvement of its CR performance.
The objectives provide valuable key performance indicators for the Group to focus its CR efforts and work to continually improve the Groups index ratings.
The Groups CR credentials have proven key to its commercial aspirations in 2011 providing access to tender lists for major contractors through formal assessment and Pre-Qualification Questionnaires.
SIG has retained externally verified certification under ISO 14001:2004 Environment and OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety across all of the Groups UK sites with Moody International being the appointed Assessors.
Business PrinciPles and code of ethics SIG has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and ethics which underlies the Groups core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable, profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation.
The Groups Ethics Policy has been designed to ensure that SIG conducts all of its business to the highest ethical standards.
The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been issued to all employees, sets out the standards and behaviours that all SIG employees are expected to meet 38 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and assisting the police Business PrinciPles and code of ethics and other appropriate authorities in any resultant prosecution: and continued throughout the Groups operations.
The policy makes clear a number of taking firm and vigorous action against any individual s involved in bribery or corruption.
fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
The policy can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
A copy of the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy can be viewed on The key business principles contained in the Ethics Policy are set out below: the Companys website www.
SIGs policy is to operate within applicable laws: environment discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: environmental management SIG aims to be a responsible partner within its local communities: SIG UK achieved certification to ISO 14001 in 2006 and is on target for the second the legal and moral rights of others will be taken into account in all SIGs renewal in April 2012.
Through this certification we have developed an integrated business transactions: Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E Management system whose principles have been rolled out across the Group over the past three years.
we will maintain a safe and healthy environment for people to work in: Mr. C. J. Davies, Group Chief Executive, is the Board Director responsible we will be proactive in managing our responsibilities to the environment: for the environmental performance of the Group and is signatory to the HS&E we will not knowingly make misrepresentations: Policy statement which is displayed at each location in the local language.
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: A key objective for SIG in 2011 was to review the Environmental Aspects and no bribes can be given or received: Impacts assessments for each business across all of its areas of operation and this was achieved culminating in a Group Aspects and Impacts Register and conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and Corporate Risk Assessment.
It is an objective for 2012 to further develop this employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
process to provide a common approach to assessing aspects and impacts at branch level through the internal Control Self Assessment CSA programme.
The Group operates a culture of openness and has in place a confidential hotline service so that employees can raise, on a confidential basis, any The Group takes extremely seriously its responsibilities for the local environment concerns about how we conduct our business.
The service is provided by an and has an excellent record for legal compliance and environmentally sound independent third party and a full investigation is carried out on all matters raised operations demonstrated by the fact that we have had no prosecutions and no and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The confidential action from the authorities since the introduction of the Management System.
hotline service is available to all SIG employees.
Over the past four years SIG has broadened its view from local to global issues: from the first Carbon Footprint report in 2008 to the introduction of a Low Carbon anti-BriBery and corruPtion Policy Business Policy in the UK in 2010.
The Low Carbon Business Policy was rolled out SIG plc has a number of fundamental principles and values which it believes are across Group in 2011 culminating in the setting of Objectives and Targets for Carbon the foundation of sound and fair business practice and as such are important to emission reduction in all European regions.
Objectives are also set for the continuous uphold.
One such principle is a zero tolerance position in relation to bribery and improvement of the integrity and scope of the data collected this is evident by the corruption, wherever and in whatever form that it may be encountered.
The inclusion of water consumption in the this years CR Report and the inclusion of data Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy supports our Ethics Policy and clearly for the first time for the Groups international business Air Trade Centre ATC.
states the standards and principles required to ensure conformance to legal Water requirements within the countries in which SIG and its subsidiary companies operate.
Water consumption throughout the Group is largely restricted to welfare use SIG plc values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial probity and with water used for processes in the Group estimated to be less than 5% of reliability.
It recognises that over and above the commission of any crime, any the total consumption.
involvement in bribery will also reflect adversely on its image and reputation.
Its aim therefore is to limit its exposure to bribery and corruption by: However SIG recognises that water is a precious resource and there are a number of examples where we have taken action to reduce waste including: setting out a clear anti-bribery & corruption policy: process water recycling in Alizay: water flush controls across the Group and training all employees so that they can recognise and avoid the use of rainwater harvesting in Zaventem.
Further opportunities for efficiencies are bribery by themselves and others: being identified with the inclusion of water consumption in the audit process encouraging its employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication and ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately: 39 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report Continued A key objective for 2011 was to reduce the fuel consumption of the business by 2%.
This was exceeded with an absolute reduction of 3.2%.
Objectives for 2012 include: providing verifiable records for business level environment continued carbon footprint for each region: the reduction of carbon emissions from fuel Water continued and energy: minimising waste: increasing re-cycling: and maximising waste and a water recycling project being undertaken in our IMS manufacturing diverted from landfill.
More details are set out in the following pages.
business in Southport in the North West of England.
To achieve these objectives SIG has Environmental Champions based in each As previously stated SIG has achieved a key objective for 2011 to include the region to support the policy, drive forward objectives and communicate best Groups water consumption data in the CR Report.
Data has been included practice.
The Group wide Low Carbon Business awareness campaign which for 80% of the Group based on Carbon Footprint.
The objective for 2012 is commenced in 2011 with the launch of the Low Carbon Business Update and to increase the scope to 100% of the Group.
in-country Management Review Meetings will continue in 2012. carBon management road risK Policy As previously stated the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the The Company has in place in the UK a Road Risk Policy.
This Policy recognises environmental performance of the Group and as such he is signatory to the LC that driving is among the most hazardous tasks performed by its employees and Policy Statement which supports the Groups CR Policy.
The aims of the policy that its vehicles and drivers represent the Company while they are on the road.
are to reduce the Companys impact on the global environment and in particular It also recognises the potential impact that driving has on the local and global climate change through reducing energy and fuel consumption and minimising environment.
As a minimum all legal, industry and other adopted standards are water consumption and waste.
met across all of SIG UKs businesses.
With the achievement of the Environmental Certificate ISO14001 in 2006, SIG The aims of this policy are set out below and will be achieved by improving commenced a programme to measure and understand its impact on the global the knowledge, developing the attitude and influencing the driving behaviour environment.
Initially the Company co-ordinated the systems already in place of employees: then invested in personnel, software systems and with renewed focus achieved a reasonably accurate measurement of the Groups Carbon Footprint.
As a result of to take the risks associated with the use of vehicles into account during these improvements SIG were able to set targets for emissions reduction for 2011 in management decision making processes: line with the aims of the Low Carbon Policy to become a Low Carbon Business.
In to reduce the frequency and severity of accidents that occur during driving activities: addition we now have a Carbon Footprint measurement down to branch level in the UK and are working towards setting regional and branch level targets as best practice.
to reduce the adverse impact that driving and vehicles have on the local and global environment: and The main driver for the Low Carbon Policy has been the Low Carbon Committee which was formed in January 2010 and developed the Low for SIG drivers to be acknowledged by customers, employees and the public Carbon Business strategy.
Initially UK based to meet the requirements of the as being socially and environmentally responsible in their approach to driving.
CRC Energy Efficiency scheme and the Carbon Trust Standard, the strategy As part of this Policy the Company expects every driver in the organisation to has been broadened to include all European regions.
participate in, and be committed to this policy and at all times to drive safely, The strategy is reviewed and updated half yearly and forms the basis of the courteously and to comply with relevant road traffic legislation.
Companys objective for continuous improvement in this area.
transPort SIG is registered with the UKs CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and is proud to Vehicle fuel consumption forms a major part of the Groups carbon footprint and confirm that we achieved a place in the top half of the first CRC League Table continues to be a key focus of the Groups Low Carbon Business strategy.
This is largely due to the achievement of the Carbon Trust CT objective for 2011 was to reduce the fuel consumption of the business by 2%.
This achievement was not only an independent This was exceeded with an absolute reduction of 3.2% and a 10.2 % reduction confirmation of the Companys efforts to reduce our carbon emissions, but also per million of revenue.
demonstrated our commitment to reducing our emissions year on year.
This has been achieved largely through the ongoing review of the Groups Logistics The Company is pleased to confirm that it is in the process of reapplying for the and vehicle profile taking into account vehicle routing, trunking and backloads reducing CT Standard with the goal of recertification in July 2012 which we believe will delivery miles and enabling vehicle consolidation.
contribute towards the target of again achieving a top half placing in the CRC Further project work within businesses will continue in 2012 including fuel League Table in 2012. usage monitoring through daily mileage recording.
Mileage measurement will The LC Business strategy is now mature and following the appointment of the enable the business to establish vehicle efficiencies and the effectiveness of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Manager in 2011 SIG has developed driver training programmes.
a set of Group level objectives and targets for 2012 which are supported by country and regional level objectives.
40 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 SIG UK Driver of the Year Award 2011.
Nominees were put forward in four categories with a further chance to win again as the overall Driver of the Year.
The Award helped promote and focus on fuel efficiency, accident performance and compliance issues.
Winners left to right: Jayson Rayfield, Roofing Centre Tunbridge Wells, Up to 3.5 Tonne: Richard Birchall, SIG Energy Management Warrington, 3.5 to 7.5 Tonne: Scot Gerry, Logistics Director: Barry Richardson, Steadmans Carlisle, Moffett & Overall Winner: Chris Davies, Chief Executive: and Reginald Price, Proos Birkenhead, Over 7.5 Tonne.
environment continued transPort continued The inaugural SIG Driver of the Year Award Scheme was launched in 2011 in The SIG UK Logistics Accident Review Panel formed in 2010 meets every month partnership with the Groups stakeholders.
The scheme culminated in a one-day to review road traffic accidents and identify actions to reduce the accident numbers, competition at MIRA in the English Midlands and was a major success.
The scheme frequency and severity.
Although this will not have a direct impact on the Groups was nominated for an IOSH Award and the programme will be repeated in 2012. measured Carbon Footprint it will reduce non reported Scope 3 emissions, for The Groups policy is to purchase to the latest Euro standard for fuel emissions instance from reduced emissions from repair companies and emergency services efficiency.
Low emissions vehicles are provided to businesses operating out of and replacement vehicles.
major cities such as Frankfurt and London.
CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 1 DIReCT 2 metric Metric tonnes tonnes group Group Source Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 Road vehicle fuel Emission from road vehicle fuel consumption Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to DEFRA guidelines 74,355 76,806 Plant vehicle fuel Emission from non-road vehicles and plant Direct purchase records in litres converted according consumption LPG and Gas Oil to DEFRA guidelines 4,768 5,638 Natural gas Directly purchased gas fed into sites through national Actual or estimated consumption in kWh converted distribution networks according to DEFRA guidelines 3,089 3,477 Coal coke Directly purchased coal coke used for heating Actual or estimated purchases in tonnes converted purposes according to DEFRA guidelines 79 61 Heating Fuels Directly purchased Kerosene and LPG used for Actual or estimated purchases in litres converted heating purposes according to DEFRA guidelines 125 90 Total 82,416 86,072 The data relating to CO emissions has been collected from all of the Groups operations, but does not include CO emission data relating to Beaver 84, SIG 2 2 Interiors Manufacturing and SIG Safety and Workwear which were disposed of in 2011.
CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 2 DIReCT 2 metric Metric tonnes tonnes group Group Source Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 Electricity Directly purchased electricity supplied through Actual or estimated consumption in kWh converted national grid systems according to DEFRA guidelines 16,808 18,342 The above table does not include CO emission data relating to Beaver 84, SIG Interiors Manufacturing and SIG Safety and Workwear which were disposed of in 2011.
2 CO emISSIOnS SCOpe 3 OTheR InDIReCT 2 metric Metric tonnes tonnes group Group Source Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 Business travel Third-party provided transport air and rail taken Actual or estimated distance travelled converted on behalf of the business according to DEFRA guidelines 469 320 The above table does not include CO emission data relating to Beaver 84, SIG Interiors Manufacturing and SIG Safety and Workwear which were disposed of in 2011.
2 metric Metric tonnes tonnes 2011 2010 Emissions per m of revenue Scope 1, 2 and 3 36.3 41.1 41 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report Continued energy consumption is a major KpI for the Groups Low Carbon Business plan.
In 2011 we set a target for a 2% reduction compared to 2010.
The target was achieved with a 4.4% reduction.
A programme of AMR smart meter installation in the UK in 2011 with data environment continued assessment training provided to Advisors and managers will improve the data transPort continued quality further.
The programme will be continued in 2012 in partnership with In 2011 SIG Poland introduced a novel programme for employees who receive a new the energy supply company.
company vehicle which required them to plant a tree on their branch premises.
SIG disposed of a number of significant businesses in the UK in 2011 including In the UK the Occupational Road Risk policy introduced in 2010 provided for training SIG Interiors Manufacturing.
The data provided in this report, including 2010s for more than 95% of the commercial vehicle drivers.
This is expected to improve data, does not include any disposed businesses.
fuel efficiency through improved driving techniques.
Data for Air Trade Centre has been included for the first time in 2011. energy The data for 2010 does not include Air Trade Centre: however the Energy consumption is a major KPI for the Groups Low Carbon Business Plan.
contribution to the 2011 footprint is approximately 1%.
The target was SIG has reported CO equivalent emissions by scope in accordance with achieved with a 4.4% reduction.
These include Scope 1 emissions for which This was an absolute reduction and contributed to by most countries.
businesses are directly responsible, Scope 2 emissions which are indirect Consolidation within the Group continued to be a significant but diminishing emissions from the generation of supplied electricity and Scope 3 emissions factor, with the Low Carbon strategy contributing to efficiencies.
over which the businesses has limited control.
Reporting of Scope 3 emissions has broadened in 2011 to include third-party provided air and rail A concerted programme for energy reduction was commenced in 2011 transportation, waste management and for the first time water consumption.
starting with an awareness campaign across the Group including an information pack for managers, Low Carbon Bulletins, one to one in branch instruction for Recorded Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions are included in the data Managers and cascaded instruction for employees.
Also Regional meetings with reported on page 41. in country Environmental Champions.
The figures show an absolute reduction for Road Vehicle fuel of 3.2% and an In-house Energy Audits were completed for all branches in SIG UK and SIG absolute reduction for electricity of 8.4%.
These are the target emissions and Ireland, bringing some significant savings against investments.
Early savings have account for more than 90% of the Groups total emissions.
been from low cost easy wins such as the provision of door closers to save There was an absolute reduction in scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon equivalent heat.
In addition the installation of timer switches to various appliances has emissions of 4.8% and an 11.8% reduction per million of revenue in 2011 provided an annualised saving of approximately 57 tonnes of Carbon emissions.
in comparison to the prior year.
A reduction target for scope 2 emissions for 2012 is set at 3% against the base year Water consumPtion 2010.
It is expected that this will be initially achieved through further implementation of the awareness campaign, carrying out the Energy Audit Programme across the This is the first year that water consumption has been measured and reported.
Group: a Power Management Programme and, longer term, through the The data below is for 80% of the business in terms of contribution to the implementation of capital projects to provide energy efficient lighting and heating.
Groups Carbon Footprint and is based largely on estimates and extrapolation.
The Group objectives for 2012 include a requirement to provide verifiable carBon co emissions 2 water consumption data for the next CR report.
SIG continues to improve the quality of data captured by working with local data champions for each region, auditing the data gathering processes, sharing best practice, improving take-up of national contracts and practical measures, for instance carrying out meter readings to reduce reliance on estimated bills.
WATeR COnSumpTIOn litres 1000 group Resource Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 Water Consumption Third party provided water supply from national Actual or estimated consumption in litres 19,543 network for processes and welfare 42 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 environment continued Waste management hAzARDOuS WASTe absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes group Group Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 Landfill Hazardous waste sent to landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 28 1 Recycled Hazardous waste diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 339 716 Incinerated Hazardous waste incinerated Volume per annum converted to tonnes 11 5 Total 378 722 absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes group Group 2011 2010 Hazardous waste per m of revenue 0.1 0.3 nOn-hAzARDOuS WASTe absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes group Group Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 Landfill Non-hazardous waste to landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 9,231 10,747 Incinerated Non-hazardous waste incinerated Volume per annum converted to tonnes 31 184 Total 9,262 10,931 OTheR WASTe DIveRTeD fROm LAnDfILL absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes group Group Definition Data source and calculation methods 2011 2010 WEEE Waste, Electrical and Electronic Equipment Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 5 8 Glass Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 38 32 Wood Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 1,372 1,552 Metal Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 1,158 1,023 Plasterboard Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 480 688 Paper cardboard Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 932 2,014 Plastic Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 914 1,460 Other Diverted from landfill Volume per annum converted to tonnes 7,306 3,305 Total 12,205 10,082 absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes group Group 2011 2010 Non-hazardous and other waste per m of revenue 7.8 8.3 The data above does not include waste relating to Beaver 84, SIG Interiors Manufacturing and SIG Safety and Workwear, which were disposed of in 2011, and is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
43 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report Continued 2011 saw the fourth year for which SIG Insulations was , .
environmental waste is through packaging and we have taken a proactive approach environment continued to minimise the amount of new packaging entering the market and the amount of Waste management continued waste generated at branch level.
SIGs key objective is to minimise the amount of waste generated from its activities and to maximise the amount of waste diverted from landfill by the This is achieved by: Group and its customers.
Measuring waste is notoriously difficult and even purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including waste carriers base their data on estimates and average weights.
In order to pallets and cartons: ensure that the data is as accurate as it can be SIG has worked with the waste carriers and recycling companies to provide this information.
returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly returning transit pallets from deliveries to customers: Data continues to be improved for instance through the addition of a national contract in SIG Benelux, and with the assistance of a major European waste reusing packaging opened at branch for internal transfers and deliveries: carrier SIG has produced a self assessment procedure for businesses that do actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the take part in the national schemes.
membership of compliance schemes and working with local authorities In addition 60% of the reported waste is generated in the UK and negotiations and waste carriers: are underway to engage a waste contractor whose main objective is to engage carrying out pre-treatment activities at branch level including segregation with all branches, carrying out compliance assessments and training, to of materials and baling for recycling through a third party: and maximise waste recycling, recovery and provide accurate measurement.
setting objectives and targets at branch and national level to improve the Through improved measurement and targeted actions to increase recycling and Companys waste management performance.
recovery at branch level in 2011, 58% of all reported waste was diverted from Landfill.
Further strategies are being introduced in 2012 to reduce waste paper and There was also a 6% reduction in waste reported against million revenue.
consumables through the introduction of integrated printer copier fax machines As well as implementing waste segregation and baling arrangements in branch to and the reduction of individual printers.
To avoid an increase in Waste Electrical minimise the business direct impact on the environment, SIG is working in and Electronic Equipment WEEE the programme will be introduced as partnership with manufacturers to operate waste take-back recycling schemes for equipment becomes unserviceable.
Longer term plans include the introduction customers to assist them with their Producer Responsibility Obligations.
Schemes of paperless order and delivery records.
include: vinyl flooring material, plasterboard and plaster products and uPVC windows.
The increase in hazardous waste to landfill is accounted for through a one-off Waste minimisation is a key aspect of the Companys management strategy and as waste disposal programme for products quarantined over several years in a a break bulk supplier, SIG recognises that the major impact of our organisation on single business.
Liquid products were pre-treated before disposal.
accidents and incidents uK & IReLAnD Rate per 1,000 employees 2011 2010 2009 Major injury 2.5 3.1 2.5 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 12.8 12.3 13.2 All RIDDORs 15.4 15.5 16.8 Average UK headcount 6,111 6,414 7,211 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 34.0 42.8 33.4 GROup Rate per 1,000 employees 2011 2010 2009 Major injury 2.1 2.2 2.0 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 16.1 15.2 18.7 All RIDDORs Equivalent 18.3 17.4 21.4 Average Group headcount 11,105 11,508 12,348 This includes accidents in non-UK businesses which would meet the criteria for reporting in the UK under RIDDOR.
44 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 SIG Charity Cricket Day, August 2011 in aid of Cancer Research UK.
SIG employees with special guests including former cricket umpire Dickie Bird.
health and safety SIG operates a Health and Safety management system in accordance with OHSAS 18001 which in the UK is externally certificated.
The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for Health & Safety matters and is signatory to the Health Safety & Environment HS&E Policy Statement which is displayed at each location in the local language.
The Group employs a dedicated HS&E Co-ordinator in each of the businesses.
In the UK, Ireland, Poland and France, qualified competent HS&E personnel are employed to provide advice and support to the business.
In all other regions and countries external consultants are employed.
Following a period of reorganisation of the business in 2009 a set of common principles were agreed for the Group.
Through the setting of objectives and Kim Boswell, Corporate Responsibility Co-ordinator, presenting a cheque to Kevin targets and annual Management Reviews all businesses will have attained a high Bradley, Director of St Wilfrids Centre.
level of compliance by end Q2 2012.
The average compliance score in 2011 being 95% compared to 89% for 2010.
Accident statistics in the form of a dashboard and supporting information is included The key principles for the business require common written procedures: local in the monthly board report which is reviewed and discussed by the Board.
risk assessments for hazardous activities, and HS&E inspections carried out The Accident statistics for SIG UK & Ireland and for the Group are set out on page 44. across all businesses using competent personnel with inspection reports detailing any issues and target actions.
The UK & Ireland data indicates that there has been a slight decrease in the accident incidence rate for all RIDDORS in 2011 compared to the prior year.
The key hazards in terms of accident frequency are manual handling and slips The incidents were less severe with a reduction in the Major injuries incidence trips and falls, followed by falls from height.
The principal hazard in terms of rate and fewer lost days per 1000 employees.
In the UK the number of Major severity is Traffic Management.
The Accident Reduction campaign for 2010 injuries fell from 20 in 2010 to 15 in 2011. targeted Slips Trips and Falls with a Group wide poster campaign.
The campaign for 2011 targeted Traffic Management.
Traffic Management will There was an overall reduction in falls from height and slips trips and falls across continue to be a target for action in 2012 along with Manual Handling.
The increase in incidence rates for the Group is largely attributed to the number of manual handling accidents in Europe.
The post of Health and Safety Insurance Administrator HSIA was created in 2011.
The purpose of the post is to expedite accident information and supporting data community and to coordinate the approach and communication of the various interested The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it operates parties following an accident, including: business managers, investigators, HR and particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member of Business in the Claims Handlers.
The HSIA also chairs the Accident Review Panel which was Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to help to established in 2011 to analyse work related accident data for the Group.
develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through charitable To further develop this role during 2012 the Group will be introducing an donations and other initiatives that help the community.
internet based online accident reporting system.
This will improve the flow 2011 saw the fourth year for which SIG Insulations was the main sponsor for and speed of information to the HSIA and enable the business to broaden the the Sheffield Half Marathon event, which raised 110,000 for good causes.
scope of central accident recording and analysis.
The process will also provide for improved follow-up and close-out of identified actions.
This programme In 2011 Cladding and Fascia Supplies provided products to support the supports the key objective for 2012 to develop a Group wide communication refurbishment of the Norris Green Youth Centre in Liverpool.
The process for accident information.
refurbishment project was part of the BBCs DIY SOS Programme.
Training for Managers was a key objective for a number of businesses in 2011 The Human Resources Director has responsibility for community issues and continues to attract ongoing emphasis for 2012 with businesses setting out within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible local objectives and targets to support the Group objective to review HS&E for community issues at Board level.
training provision to ensure appropriate training is provided for employees.
45 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report Continued The Groups particular focus of support is for charities that enhance SIGs engagement in the communities in which itoperates,  environment or educate young people and assist disadvantaged groups.
The Group has in place a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all UK charitaBle donations employees.
Employees are free to choose any charity of their choice.
During the year the Group made donations of 145,000 2010: 117,000.
Donations of 22,000 were made through the scheme in 2011.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2010: nil.
SIG has been awarded a Payroll Giving Quality Mark Silver Award in the UK for commitment to good causes and the local community.
The Group reviewed its Charitable Donations Policy in 2011.
As a result SIG introduced a new initiative to use funds to provide matched donations in respect of Employees also undertake personal fundraising endeavours for a wide range monies raised by the Groups employees for charitable causes.
SIG employees can of charities.
The UK intranet, which is available at each location, has a dedicated apply for a matched donation up to a maximum of 500 or local equivalent.
forum for employees to highlight their fundraising efforts and receive support from their colleagues.
A Charities Committee has been set up to approve applications and to ensure that they are in line with SIGs Charitable Donations Policy.
Matched donations emPloyees from employee applications in 2011 were made to various charities and The commitment drive, professionalism and dedication of all SIGs employees community projects including: the Alpe dHuez Foundation in Benelux, are the key to the success of SIG meeting the demands of its customers, Macmillan Cancer Support, Cancer Research UK, Tommys, Breast Cancer suppliers and Shareholders.
Throughout SIG, regardless of country or sector, Campaign, BBC Children in Need and local community football teams for we believe our people are recognised as the best in their particular field.
Staff turnover is monitored monthly, personal performance is managed on an The Groups particular focus of support is for charities that enhance SIGs on-going basis and a formal appraisal programme is in place.
Training, coaching engagement in the communities in which it operates, assist in managing the and the opportunity for personal career advancement within the Company are sustainability of the local environment or educate young people and assist important features of how SIG seeks to recruit, retain and develop skilled staff.
SIG is committed to ensuring that all employees and management know what In addition to matched funding, in 2011 SIG gave its support to the is expected of them in their roles and that they receive the necessary training following charities: and development to be highly competent in what they do.
An integrated approach to the identification of training needs and the development of talent action for Kids A donation was made to the 12 Trikes for Xmas Appeal is core to our people development strategy.
Personal Development Review to help provide 12 tricycles for 12 disabled children from the UK.
Action For forms PDRs were introduced in the UK in 2010 for senior managers.
The roll Kids is a national charity working to create independence, provide opportunities out of PDRs continued in 2011 to include all SIG employees in the UK and and offer support to disabled children, young people and their families all Europe.
The use of PDRs helps us to identify any training or developmental around the UK.
Action For Kids was partnered by SIG for a 3 year period needs and support our staff as they progress through the business.
Development activities are organised generally on a business-by-business or livlife A donation to build an outreach centre in Tanzania.
LivLife works in country-by-country basis depending on local priorities.
However the Group Northern Tanzania with some of the worlds most disadvantaged people, many continues to invest in its Executive Development Programme run in conjunction of whom live in desperate poverty, without the chance to go to school, learn with Sheffield Hallam University.
This has shown huge benefits, not least in skills or find employment many have had no education at all.
LivLife Centres the development of cross-company working at a senior level.
Cohorts are provide the relevant opportunities for people to get themselves out of poverty increasingly attended by a variety of nationalities whose learning experiences through learning and employment.
The education centres are sustainable, benefit communication and working practice across the Group, making us a locally-run and locally-relevant.
Crucially they are entirely free to use, thereby stronger and more connected organisation.
giving everyone in the communities the opportunity to live their life, and to do so on their own terms.
Further to supporting Group-wide working practices a programme of week-long English language courses were run from July through September St Wilfrids Centre Sheffield UK Donation towards a new residential for colleagues wishing to build on their language capabilities.
The training took centre for homeless people.
This is a charity which supports the homeless, place in the Groups Sheffield Corporate Office and attendees from all parts the vulnerable and those who are socially excluded by providing a safe of the Group were introduced to colleagues in the business.
The courses environment where they can learn life skills.
St Wilfrids has its own printing, were delivered by Listen & Learn and are planned to be run again in 2012. pottery and woodwork centre staffed by homeless volunteers who craft goods for sale in the shop located in the Centre.
The residential centre will help An Executive Coaching and Mentoring Programme has been successfully educate homeless people in how to take care of themselves in social established and received strong support throughout the Group.
The accommodation with the end goal of breaking the cycle of homelessness.
Programme is aimed at continuing the development of senior talent and reinforcing the values and behaviours that underpin our activities.
Donations were also made to Myeloma UK & Alzheimers in memory of our respected colleague, Jon Hudson, who sadly passed away in 2011.
46 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Finalists for the SIG New Manager of the Year at Carden Park, Cheshire.
SIG New Manager of the Year Award presented at the SIG Management Conference in February 2012.
Left to right: Chris Window, UK Carpet & Flooring winner, Olav Holste, WeGo, Germany runner up, Laura Green, UK SIG Distribution runner up and Mickal Brisson, LITT, France runner up.
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, gender, disability, sexual emPloyees continued orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
As part of SIGs continued efforts The focus for 2012 will be to widen the pool of participants within the business to support and develop its employees a work group was formed in 2011 to to help support and nurture management at all levels.
Sheffield Hallam investigate and develop SIGs approach to diversity in the workplace.
The initial University continues to help us develop and deliver the Programme.
focus of the group was on women in SIG, however it was quickly established Having successfully launched the New Manager of the Year Award in 2009 that it would be more beneficial to employees and SIG to expand the remit to and the Emerging Manager of the Year Award in 2010 it was recognised that the entire diversity agenda.
Further work was undertaken in 2011 to highlight the two Awards should run biennially to continually seek out new and future the importance of diversity including the under-representation of women in management talent across the Group.
The second New Manager of the Year management positions to senior management with a three year rolling action Award took place in 2011.
The Award is aimed at identifying, encouraging and plan being developed to address these issues incorporated into the Group-wide nurturing people who have risen to management positions for the first time.
Nominees were put forward from the businesses and 12 successful candidates Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance took part in a two-day assessment event in Cheshire.
The four finalists attended with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an the SIG Management Conference where the overall winner was announced.
employee becomes disabled during employment the Group makes every effort All nominees careers, as well as those who attended the Emerging Manager to enable them to continue employment, by making reasonable adjustments of the Year Award, will be monitored through the talent management process in the workplace and with retraining for alternative work where necessary.
and included on the Group-wide mentoring Programme.
SIG recognises the importance of good communication with its employees.
The Group continues to recruit and invest in commercial trainee and To support this we have a Group wide newsletter as well as business specific graduate talent to help meet our future management requirements.
Our future publications and newsletters to keep colleagues up-to-date and informed.
management cadres have a mix of backgrounds and experience that is relevant The newsletters focus on communicating our operational changes, examples to our customer base which helps us engage with our customers fully.
of best practice and highlight specific cross sales activities, success stories and Graduates are recruited for specific functions and there are also country and teamwork around the businesses.
In 2011 an employee survey was carried out international programmes designed to provide a 360 degree view of the business.
in the UK and the feedback has been incorporated into each business strategy In 2011 a student summer placement scheme was formalised and launched in for 2012 to ensure continues improvement and to address any issues raised.
Three UK undergraduates were placed in regional or functional roles Directors in operating businesses tended to focus on local roadshows and where they were assigned dedicated projects.
These projects gave them an presentations to communicate to a wider audience rather than management insight into SIG while supporting the business they were placed in.
In 2012 work will be undertaken on the UK Intranet system undergraduates were placed in the UK while two UK undergraduates were to further support the communication across the UK.
placed in France: all of whom carried out dedicated projects or branch based Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
This scheme will help us to maintain the pipeline of high quality graduates Group introduced a Share Incentive Plan SIP in November 2005 in place joining SIG.
The scheme will be extended in 2012 to offer undergraduate students of the Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Company gives one matching share for the opportunity of a placement year working for SIG.
The initial focus will be to each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four matching work with specific French and UK universities to advertise and fill the placements.
At 31 December 2011 there were 884 employees saving SIG relies on the expertise and commitment of its employees whose under the Companys SIP.
knowledge and experience differentiate it in the market place.
Competency The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its based training plans have been launched within the SIG Distribution businesses businesses.
In the UK it operates a defined contribution scheme, which is open in the UK and these will continue to be rolled out throughout the rest of the to all employees.
The Groups UK defined benefit scheme has been closed to UK businesses in 2012 to support the structured development of employees.
The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and The HR Director has responsibility for HR issues within the Group and reports prospective employees.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent on the to the Chief Executive who is responsible for HR issues at Board level.
quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit 47
