Business Review Sustainability Smith & Nephews commitment to people, the planet and sustainable profitability.
Highlights and strategy Sustainability vision and strategy Smith & Nephew is proud of much of its sustainability Smith & Nephew has been measuring, improving and reporting its performance in 2011.
The Group achieved continued sustainability performance since 2001.
During this time the Group has improvements in itssustainability KPIs: energy, CO, 2 made good progress, and is proud of what has been achieved.
wasteand water reduction and increased recycling.
The Adapting and accelerating sustainability performance is an important employee accident rate increased 1% year-on-year.
element of the Groups overall business strategy.
During 2011, Smith & Nephew invested considerable effort re-evaluating the fundamental The Groups on-going success is also recognised by issues that underpin its approach to sustainability.
anumber of highly regarded third party organisations.
Sustainability vision Smith& Nephew had another year of strong ranking in Collaborate with external and internal customers to develop efficient and innovative sustainable business solutions to help differentiate and theDow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and grow the business FTSE4Good, achieved a top 20% ranking in the UK Carbon Top priorities Reduction Commitment CRC obligation and third party Sustainability is a multi-faceted subject and developing an executable verication by the Carbon Trust Standard.
strategy requires focus on the issues of greatest importance to the Group.
To assist with this, the Group conducted extensive consultation Smith & Nephew constantly strives to improve its with a diverse array of internal and external stakeholders to obtain their performance year-on-year.
This year, the appointment of the insights on topics of importance.
These included employees throughout Groups new Chief Executive officer, Olivier Bohuon, and the business, customers, industry peers, investor rating agencies, community partners, and sustainability thought leaders.
The Group also the focus of the business around new strategic priorities, evaluated these topics in terms of their potential impact on the provided an opportunity to take a further step in dening business.
This materiality analysis identied the focus areas for the our sustainability vision and developing multi-year targets.
Those key focus areas are outlined below.
Materiality Analysis High A. Stakeholder Engagement B. Philanthropy Community A G C. Human Rights B H I D. Climate C D K E. Monitoring Systems J E F. Water Use F M G. Energy Reduction L H. Waste Packaging Reduction N I.
Innovative Products O K. Ethics Reputation L. Business Continuity P M. Health And Safety Q N. Responsible Supply Chain R O. Diversity P. Recruitment Retention S Q. Wellness R. Employee Satisfaction Low High Impact on S&N Strategic development The Group is in the process of rening its strategy for sustainability and the priorities for the next five years, incorporating the materiality analysis work.
The Board has actively participated in this discussion and supports the further development of Smith & Nephews sustainability agenda.
Once the Board has agreed the priorities, they will be detailed in the 2011 Sustainability Report to be published later this year.
42 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Stakeholder importance
