Group overview Corporate responsibility Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Information about Code compliance is available to employees, in twelve The Code of Business Ethics is at the heart languages in printed format and on the Smiths intranet.
Posters of the Code are also displayed at our sites.
of our approach to corporate responsibility.
To communicate the Code, we provide ethics training to employees It sets out 12 broad principles for how across the Group.
This training course is available online in English we do business, based on the common and five other languages, through a custom-built platform, the Global Learning Resource GLR, and installed on a Smiths training portal values of integrity, honesty, fairness and accessible through the internet.
The course is also available on CD-ROM.
The GLR and portal is designed to support future employee training in transparency.
It provides the framework the areas of business ethics, compliance, safety and security.
for our policies, programmes and Managing corporate responsibility procedures for a range of corporate The Code Compliance Council for the Code of Business Ethics the Council acts as the steering committee for our ethics programme.
It is supported by the Senior Vice President, Ethics & Compliance.
The Council meets quarterly to determine priorities and review key issues.
Council members take the lead in co-ordinating resources in their The Code applies to all of our businesses and employees worldwide.
The Council and its Chair are assisted Complying with the Code helps us to sustain and enhance our reputation by a dedicated, full-time ethics and compliance administrator.
and contributes to long-term value creation for shareholders.
Smiths maintains an ethics Alertline, which answers queries and enables employees to report any concerns or allegations confidentially.
The 12 principles of the Code of Business Ethics The Alertline is available via email, worldwide web, and toll-free phone numbers in 53 countries, and is staffed by people who speak the local 1 We comply with the law language.
All issues are addressed promptly and referred, as required, 2 We compete fairly to relevant functions so they can be properly investigated.
We have a non-retaliation policy, which means that any employee who in good 3 We act with integrity in all our business dealings faith reports any act of apparent misconduct or unethical behaviour 4 We treat suppliers, partners and customers properly will not be victimised or treated adversely.
5 We treat our co-workers respectfully The Senior Vice President, Ethics & Compliance periodically reports to the Audit Committee on ethics issues and suspected or actual breaches 6 We contribute to healthy, safe and secure workplaces of the Code.
He also serves as an adviser and resource on ethical issues and manages responses to all enquiries and allegations.
7 We respect the environment Compliance support to Smiths businesses comes from legal counsel, 8 We contribute to our communities who provide advice, education, training, guidance materials, export 9 We participate in relevant public debates control policies and risk assessment tools.
10 We respect human rights Some specific issues are managed by other functions within Smiths Group, depending on the nature of the issue and how it can most 11 We have high standards of financial record-keeping and reporting effectively be managed: 12 The Code applies to all of us environment, health and safety EHS issues are the responsibility Go to www.
aspx of line management and are overseen through a Group-wide EHS steering committee, a technical implementation committee and local co-ordinators security is also a line management responsibility and is controlled through a Group-wide security committee employee issues are managed by line management and through the human resources function supplier and customer programmes are managed by each business, and community programmes are principally managed locally, although there is also some Group-level activity.
57 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Environment, health and safety Environment Smiths is committed to working in a way that, as far as reasonably Our environmental targets are to achieve 10% reductions in energy practicable, protects the health and safety of its employees and minimises usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste generation, and a 5% any environmental effects of its activities, products and services.
reduction in water usage by FY2015, all normalised to sales against a baseline of FY2010.
Where necessary, we adjust our baseline metrics We strongly believe in the power of continuous improvement and use to account for acquisitions and disposals.
management systems to realise its benefits.
These systems help to improve our management of EHS issues by providing an externally We have adopted a new reporting policy for our environmental metrics, verified framework for risk reduction, continual improvement, which expanded the number of sites required to report environmental compliance assurance and management review.
Previously, only manufacturing sites with more than 50 employees had to report.
We now capture data from For several years, we have been implementing EHS management warehouses, service centres and offices, and have reduced the size systems at manufacturing sites with 50 or more employees.
2010, we have expanded these systems to include warehousing and service centres and sites with 20 or more employees.
We believe that these reporting changes provide us with a more comprehensive view of our environmental impact.
The environmental Sites with 50 or more employees are required to have their EHS metrics for FY2010 in this report have been rebased to reflect the new management systems externally certified to the following standards: reporting policy and are set out in the table below.
OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and safety management Our environmental performance in FY2011 was very favourable systems, and compared to FY2010.
We achieved significant reductions in all metrics, ISO 14001 for environmental management systems.
placing us on track to meet our FY2015 goals.
When analysing our changes in environmental metrics for FY2011, absolute increases are New acquisitions and sites that grow above these thresholds have mainly associated with increased production and acquired businesses two years to comply.
Of our more than 160 sites, 100 are required to and some decreases are associated with site closures, consolidations implement systems and complete external certification.
Of these, and improved recycling.
almost 90 have so far completed certification, with the remainder planned for FY2012.
Performance against environment targets Target 2011 progress FY2010-FY2015 against FY2010 Energy 10% reduction 3.3% reduction over 5 years Greenhouse gas emissions 10% reduction 4.5% reduction over 5 years Total non-recycled waste 10% reduction 5.2% reduction over 5 years Water consumption 5% reduction 8.4% reduction over 5 years 58 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Total energy Total energy efficiency 000 MWh MWh m sales 316 118 305 303 295 110 285 105 106 104 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions 000 Tonnes Tonnes m sales 129 48 124 121 121 45 115 43 43 42 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water use Water consumption 3 3 000m m m sales 576 217 528 515 188 186 485 462 170 170 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total non-recycled waste Total non-recycled waste 000 Tonnes Tonnes m sales 8.8 3.3 7.1 2.5 6.2 6.1 6.1 2.2 2.2 2.1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2010 figures have been rebased to reflect the new reporting policy which now captures all manufacturing sites, warehouses, service centres and offices with more than 20 employees Water use and consumption have been revised from last years report to reflect water monitoring corrections.
59 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Health and safety Employees Our safety Key Performance Indicators KPI are our recordable incident We believe in providing our employees with opportunities to develop rate RIR and lost time incident rate LTIR.
These are measured per 100 their talent and to contribute to the business in which they work.
A recordable incident is one where an employee We support them by investing in improved safety, upholding their requires medical attention beyond first aid.
A lost-time incident is one statutory rights and creating an ethical, supportive environment where which results in a lost work day beyond the day of the incident.
All of colleagues are treated fairly and with respect.
Our current priorities are our sites are required to report recordable and lost time incidents to talent development, succession planning and employee engagement.
Adding value Since 2004, we have achieved a steady reduction in our RIR, with 2011 Throughout Smiths, people are taking action to achieve the best being our safest on record.
Our goal is to reach an RIR of 0.5 by July possible long-term performance for our shareholders.
We invest in 2013 and we made good progress in FY2011, with an RIR of 0.66, down the skills and capabilities of our people and expect them to reflect that from 0.71 in FY2010.
investment in their performance in terms of business results.
We have also successfully reduced our LTIR in recent years.
Our LTIR Career progression has dropped from 0.86 in FY2007 to 0.29 in FY2011.
As a global technology group, we offer a variety of ways to help our people progress their career within Smiths, in line with their capabilities and Performance against safety targets performance.
We identify leaders and provide them with development FY2013 target 2011 result tools and opportunities to support their career ambitions and our Recordable incident rate Better than 0.5 business needs.
We also recognise the need to balance internal per 100 employees 0.66 development and promotion with external recruitment, where this is necessary to fulfil our commitment to add value.
Lost time incident rate No target 0.29 Diversity See charts below for historic data.
It is our policy to provide equal opportunities for employment.
Smiths recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their Our employees recognise our commitment to health and safety.
In our qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related recent Group-wide employee engagement survey, workplace safety decisions, Smiths complies with all applicable anti-discrimination was the highest-scoring dimension, exceeding the studys worldwide requirements in the relevant jurisdictions, including concerning benchmark for manufacturing industry.
matters of race, colour, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual Starting in FY2012, we will add a leading indicator activity metric as a orientation, religious belief, age, or physical or mental disability.
KPI for safety, complementing the RIR metric.
Sites with more than Disabled people are given full consideration for employment and 50 employees will be included in the metric.
Each of these sites will subsequent training including re-training, if needed, for people who be required to complete a minimum number of each of the following have become disabled, career development and promotion on the activities, which will count towards their leading indicator activity score: basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
We endeavour to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing leadership safety training job because of disability.
leadership site safety tours All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity.
Accordingly, employee safety accountability training any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
Smiths respects the right of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona employee safety inspection and communication events, and fide employee representative organisation.
Smiths believes in good near-miss and improvement reporting.
communications with employees and in promoting consultation, cooperation and teamwork on matters of mutual concern.
Sites will report their scores quarterly and will be required to achieve annual targets.
Recordable Incident Rate Lost Time Incident Rate 1.89 0.86 1.21 0.54 0.51 1.03 0.71 0.66 0.30 0.29 Where an employee requires Where an employee is unable medical attention beyond first aid to work the day after an incident 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 per 100 employees per year per 100 employees per year 60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts Succession management Communities Smiths operates a systematic  process We contribute to the communities in which we operate.
In addition to for leadership roles.
Our businesses identify leadership talent and providing jobs and boosting local economies, we support community development needs using a set of key competencies, common tools involvement through charitable giving and education initiatives.
Development plans are monitored by senior We primarily manage these activities at a divisional level.
However, management to optimise effective succession.
Smiths does offer some support to community and charitable Developing talent organisations at Group level.
We consider charities and organisations Smiths invests in employees skills and capabilities, which in turn that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the well-being of people helps the Company and its businesses to success.
We have a number through improved education, health and welfare or environment.
of development programmes to evaluate and enhance core leadership Projects local to our operational facilities or connected to our industries competencies.
These programmes are tailored to address a wide range are the main focus of our support.
of learning styles, incorporating workshops, experiential learning, Education is a major recipient of our support.
For example together with mentoring, team working and project experience.
the Royal Academy of Engineering in the UK, the Smiths Technology For employees to add value, we have to ensure they are properly Education Programme is now in its fifth year.
Through the programme, engaged with and committed to the business.
We provide training school students are offered the opportunity to participate in summer and development that represent an investment in both their future school courses in engineering and technology.
Those students who and that of the business.
We also offer a safe and responsible working then go on to take an engineering or technology degree course at environment that encourages mutual respect, provides opportunities university are eligible to receive Smiths bursaries.
for personal growth and rewards individual and team contributions that Controls on defence sales realise value for the business.
Smiths periodically offers employees in All sales of defence equipment are undertaken in accordance with the US and the UK opportunities to participate in share plans that enable government export and approval procedures and regulations, such employees to benefit from increases in the Companys share price and as the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the Export to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Administration Regulations in the USA.
These laws prohibit export Communication of certain items to specific countries.
Smiths adheres to all relevant Communication is crucial to helping employees engage with the government guidelines designed to ensure that products are not business.
At business unit level, we communicate through team incorporated into weapons or other equipment used for the purposes briefings, presentations, intranets and newsletters.
Many businesses of terrorism or abuse of human rights, with internal controls to ensure have well-established forums for exchanging information and best compliance with these guidelines.
practice, as well as discussing current business issues including FTSE4Good efficiency initiatives, training and development, and environment, The FTSE4Good Index acknowledges companies that meet globally health and safety issues.
Smiths continues to In European Union EU countries we have workplace information be awarded membership of the index, scoring 91 out of 100 on the and consultation arrangements at our sites.
These link to the Smiths FTSE4Good Environmental, Social and Governance rating.
While we European Forum, through which employee representatives from are not complacent about the ongoing work required, we were pleased across the EU meet annually to discuss transnational matters with to receive this external recognition of our corporate responsibility Group executives.
initiatives and business ethics programme.
Employee engagement Go to www.
aspx In 2010, Smiths conducted a Global My Voice Employee Engagement survey for the first time.
We partnered with Kenexa, a leading survey provider, to ensure that responses were anonymous and to enable us to conduct the survey in local languages.
We achieved more than 85% participation rate.
Results were measured against the global norms for manufacturing industry and Divisional, local and functional results have been communicated.
Action plans to address the most significant issues have been drawn up using focus groups and local champions.
A further global survey will be conducted in Spring 2012 to measure our progress.
Acquisition integration Smiths Group periodically acquires new businesses and when doing so, we implement plans to integrate them into Smiths, ensuring that our business ethics, employee development, safety and environmental policies and programmes are well established.
61 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
