SuStAInAble develOpment SuStAInAble vAlue FOR HOSt COuntRIeS, lOCAl COmmunItIeS And OuR OWn SHAReHOldeRS Our Company Our approach to sustainable development is CeOs statement tailored to individual projects.
Where we are the SOCO International is an upstream, international operator, our influence is high.
Where we are a Oil and gas companies have a central role oil and gas exploration and production company.
minority owner and non-operator, we seek to in todays global energy supply.
SOCO We are a participating partner in seven oil licences influence our partners to integrate sustainable International can be a powerful force for in Vietnam, the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, the development into a project.
Through our business, Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC we create jobs, provide training and skills and and Angola.
Why sustainable development support local communities.
is good for our business Our core business is to add shareholder value by: There are two clear benefits for SOCO A successful project can transform not only a from a carefully managed approach to company, but also the economic and social Gaining access to investment opportunities in sustainable development: wellbeing of a host country by contributing to its projects or regions early on in the project life ability to produce and supply its own natural cycle where there is potential to create significant 1.
Management of risks upside through our participation.
We recognise that built into the Exploration and development of hydrocarbons heart of this opportunity is the business Applying our managerial, technical and commercial involves a significant degree of risk.
We operate in imperative to act responsibly.
expertise to progress the project through its remote areas that are often under-developed: we formative stages or through periods of difficulty.
rely on collaboration with external partners: and we SOCO is committed to conducting our business Locking in the investment returns once our may only invest for a short time period at a in an honest and ethical manner and ensuring capacity to add value begins to diminish.
A well-managed approach to that the health and safety of people and the our social, environmental and economic protection of the environment remain a We currently have five projects in the early phases responsibilities is integral to good risk business priority.
of exploration and two projects in the production management.
SOCO has particular expertise in the development phase.
management of technical and commercial risks Our goal is to be a positive presence whereby and we apply these skills to our economic, social we build sustainable value for the host In undertaking our activities we bring benefits to and environmental responsibilities.
countries and local communities, as well as for society through investment in developing countries, our own shareholders.
Thats what we mean by providing stimulus for emerging local economies, 2.
Realisation of new opportunities sustainable development.
the creation of jobs, training for local people, We want to build strong relationships and a support for local communities, payment of fees and reputation as a good corporate citizen so that ed Story taxes to host governments and the protection of we are welcomed as the responsible partner of President and Chief Executive Officer the natural environment.
We call this approach choice.
By harnessing our skills and capabilities sustainable development.
as a business, and sensitively managing our operations, we can be a powerful force for Because of our exploration activities, our projects sustainable development in the communities in can vary substantially from year to year.
Sustainable development can these can be at the earliest stages of exploration also provide a source of competitive advantage.
prior to the onset of drilling or production activities.
Our commitment to local economies and investment in communities has helped We partner with other businesses and host SOCO win business around the world.
governments through their national oil companies.
This means that our portfolio varies by: a our degree of ownership b our level of operatorship SOCO International plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SuStAInAble vAlue FOR HOSt COuntRIeS, lOCAl COmmunItIeS And OuR OWn SHAReHOldeRS Our approach to sustainable development is tailored to individual projects based on our degree of influence How it works Block Ownership Operatorship Marine XI: Congo Brazzaville 29.00% Operator SOCO HIgH High degree Moderate degree Marine XIV: Congo Brazzaville 29.40% Operator SOCO of influence of influence We implement our We seek to approach to sustainable influence others development Nganzi Block: Western DRC 65.00% Operator SOCO Block V: Eastern DRC 38.25% Operator SOCO Block 9-2: Vietnam 25.00% Joint Operating Company Low degree of influence Moderate degree We seek to make our of influence Block 16-1: Vietnam 30.50% Joint Operating Company views heard and ensure We seek to minimum standards influence others are met Cabinda North Block: Angola 17.00% Non-Operator lOW Degree of ownership lOW HIgH How we integrate sustainable The Code sets out our values of honesty and Our guiding principle: development into our business fairness and promoting trust amongst those with A net positive Contribution Our Guiding Principle, which is set out adjacent, whom we work.
Where we partner with others, we is translated into our policies and systems, it seek to work with those who share the same Our business is guided by an guides our selection of partners, and is realised principles as us.
overarching principle: to make a through our actions on the ground.
The Company net positive contribution through has established standards for business conduct in The Code applies across all our business balancing the needs for energy three performance areas ethical, social and operations, including contractors, suppliers, agents security: economic development: environmental as well as a comprehensive and joint venture partners.
It is our policy to social improvement: and the Health, Safety, Environment, Social and Security consider environmental, ethical, health, security protection of the environment.
and safety criteria in our selection of suppliers.
A summary of the Code is available on our website.
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Code Sustainable development is managed day-to-day The Guiding Principle is implemented through through our HSESS system.
This forms part of the the Code, which was originally approved by the training provided for all staff.
Board of Directors in 2004 and was most recently reviewed and updated in 2011.
SOCO International plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Level of Operatorship SuStAInAble develOpment continued Governance Safety and Security Our primary responsibility is the Sustainable development at SOCO evolves from year Our primary responsibility is the safety of our to year as our business grows and the individual safety of our employees and those employees and those we work with.
with whom we work project cycles progress.
We recognise that this is a long journey that wont be perfected overnight.
Our HSESS Management System includes During 2011, there were no Lost Time Injuries However, our governance structures ensure that we procedures and guidelines to secure a planned constantly learn from our experiences and improve LTIs to our staff in any of our operations approach for identifying, analysing and managing worldwide and the Lost Time Injury Frequency our approach.
occupational risks and ensuring that our personnel was nil.
and our contractors have the appropriate The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for our competency for the task at hand.
HSESS objectives sustainable development performance.
Relevant issues In Vietnam, the Te Giac Trang TGT development are incorporated into new project activities along project as a whole has accumulated 5.3 million are considered by the Board through a specific item on with specific HSESS training to ensure that HSESS manhours with no LTIs.
the agenda at each meeting.
disciplines are assimilated into day-to-day activities.
Contractors and suppliers are selected on the basis The Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint Operating Management of the day-to-day implementation is of their HSESS competency and performance, Companies JOCs, operators of Block 16-1 and through our country managers, led by the Vice alongside commercial, technical quality, business Block 9-2, respectively, conducted audits and President Operations and Production.
The conduct and other considerations.
Audits, inspections over key contractors engaged in the effectiveness of our risk management and controls inspections and monitoring is applied to key TGT construction, drilling and production operations.
over our sustainable development programme is contractors on a risked based approach.
formally assessed annually and reviewed As we reported last year, in February 2011, an periodically by the Audit Committee.
SOCO has adopted a security standard that employee of a security company contracted by applies to all SOCO employees, their contractors, Creating economic SOCO was briefly taken hostage in DRC and and their families, while working or living at any of was released without harm after two days.
wealth, responsibly the SOCO operational activities worldwide.
The SOCO management was kept fully updated at standard calls for security risk assessments, country and corporate level throughout the Our Approach monitoring security status and developing Our aim is to ensure that all of our stakeholders incident and received a detailed debrief from appropriate security procedures and plans for the contractor.
Both SOCO and the contractor benefit from our operations and the wealth that we each area and operation.
We contribute to the economic development carried out rigorous reviews of their respective procedures after the incident and, with the of the countries where we operate, and by doing so Creating Jobs and Training build a reputation as a reliable, fair and responsible findings, we remain confident that the respective One of the biggest benefits our business brings is procedures are sufficiently robust and adequate company.
developing new skills, creating jobs and stimulating to identify, reduce and respond to the the local job market in developing countries, often risk exposure.
We apply our technical, managerial and some of the poorest parts of the world.
commercial expertise to create jobs in local communities: provide training and technical The Code is applied to set out how we: assistance: stimulate the local economy: enhance Create employment by staffing as many of the capacity of host governments: pay relevant our jobs with the local population as possible, taxes and governmental fees: generate revenues including as contractors and suppliers.
from hydrocarbon production: and create returns Provide training to equip locals with skills that for our shareholders.
can be useful long after we have left an area.
5.3 million Assist host communities, local companies and manhours reported at TGT From the initial decision to invest, through to the governments with technical cooperation and without Lost Time Injuries LTIs management and divestment of operations, we are capacity building.
guided by an approach to bring economic rewards to our stakeholders, safely and responsibly.
0 LTIs during 2011 in our operations worldwide SOCO International plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our three part core strategy contributes to sustainable development Access to Host country investment revenue How it works opportunities 1.
Recognising opportunity Operating Relationship revenue building Host country economic revenue stimulation taxes and early entry fees into regions 3.
Our core strategic Realising objectives value Commitment Capital to local expenditure economies Social and economic community stimulation projects Skills and Operational expertise management 2.
Capturing potential training local programmes employment Commitment to Training building sustainable our partners to ensure that communities in and and Capacity Building communities around the region of our operations are engaged.
During 2011, SOCO provided professional Our Approach Our stakeholder engagement process includes training for 34 local staff from Congo Our success as an international business depends a designated person responsible for local liaison: Brazzaville and DRC.
Courses included geology, on building and maintaining the support of the setting shared goals and objectives with relevant finance management, geolocalisation, IT and local communities where we operate.
We take a community representatives: and ensuring that we procurement.
Sponsorship has also been long-term approach to listening and responding get feedback to review and improve our approach.
provided for industry through partnerships with to the needs of our stakeholders, and contributing local drilling services providers.
to the development of communities through Community Investment targeted investments.
We have sought to ensure that support for local In Vietnam, the partners of Blocks 16-1 and 9-2, communities feature in all of our contracts with host excluding Petrovietnam, have committed to Stakeholder engagement governments and joint venture companies.
This contribute an annual total of $300,000 to Our stakeholders include local communities means that we can ensure we are directly involved training and capacity building within Vietnam.
In where we operate: host governments and local in how projects are implemented on the ground addition, the JOCs reported a total expenditure authorities: our employees, contractors and and remain accountable for their fulfilment.
of approximately $400,000 towards its staff business partners: and our shareholders and training programmes.
Staff at all levels of the the investment community.
We see this as an important mechanism to ensure organisations participated in training aimed at a that the communities where we operate benefit broad range of technical skills and professional We have a formal process of stakeholder from our activities because we believe that development.
engagement in place to engage local communities building strong communities in and around our where we operate.
This helps us to better operations is good for the long-term success of understand the needs of local people.
In addition, by investing directly in dont directly control an operation, we work with these communities, we can target our contributions SOCO International plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 SuStAInAble develOpment continued effectively to where they are needed most.
Beyond Although there have been no major Social programmes in Congo and DRC the social investments mandated in our contracts, environmental incidents in any of SOCOs we make additional, voluntary contributions to local operations, an Emergency Management Plan is Partner Commitment and regional communities.
in place in the event that any incident does occur.
In Congo, the Marine XI and Marine XIV partners Audits and inspections are carried out over all committed $1,350,000 towards social projects protecting the environment key contractors.
Of this, approximately Climate change is a key consideration in the $383,000 of projects were carried out during Our Approach management of our environmental performance.
the year, including the provision of potable water Managing the environmental impacts of our Although our impacts are low relative to our sector, facilities, construction of a school buildings, operations is a key consideration wherever we do we seek to implement best practice standards to renovation of a maternity clinic and endowment business.
We always seek to ensure that the local reduce Scope 1 emissions.
of medical equipment and the sponsorship of a environment is left in at least as good a state as professional training programme for young when we arrived.
Environmental Performance in 2011 people with disabilities.
Beyond this commitment, There were no major environmental incidents at SOCO donated a further $15,000 towards We strive to ensure industry best practice any of our operations during 2011.
The most charitable projects in Congo during 2011. standards are achieved in our projects and we material change in our environmental impacts utilise the expertise of industry specialists for this during 2011 occurred when the TGT offshore field In western DRC, the Nganzi Block partners have purpose from early on in the project life cycle.
in Vietnam came on-stream as planned in August.
committed $150,000 annual spend towards Detailed Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs social projects.
Social projects undertaken during are undertaken at each new juncture of a project.
Last year, we set out two of our targets for 2011 include the provision of potable water wells environmental performance: and the construction of school buildings in the Because our degree of control varies between projects, Bas Congo region.
we tailor our approach to the situation on the ground.
Environmental certification for the TGT field Where our control is low and a partner operates the In November we achieved certification in EIA Additional Community Donations project, SOCO insists that, at a minimum, we meet all Compliance issued by Vietnams Ministry of Beyond this commitment, SOCO donated an legal and regulatory requirements.
Natural Resource and Environment for TGT additional $30,000 during 2011 towards Production.
Working with our partners, we charitable projects in the DRC.
Donations Managing our Environmental Performance identified this as the most suitable, international included the provision of a Hydraform brick SOCO is committed to conducting all business certification standard for the project.
fabrication machine along with training, which activities in a responsible manner to ensure the Accordingly, the JOC is not pursuing the ISO has transformed the commonly observed activity protection of the environment.
Our objective is for 14000 environmental certification referred to in of making bricks by hand.
Following the the impact to remain low through continuous last years targets.
In addition, the floating programmes success, SOCO has expanded the monitoring and responsive action.
Our production storage and offloading vessel the training to further communities in the area environmental management system ensures that Armada TGT received its International Oil surrounding Kipholo in the Bas Congo.
our potential impacts are identified and assessed Pollution Prevention Certificate in July 2011, and the appropriate measures are taken so that issued by the American Bureau of Shipping in On Block V, in eastern DRC, SOCO provided these impacts are mitigated and minimized.
emergency response assistance to local villagers promote excellence in environmental management during an epidemic of cholera.
Restoration of the Nganzi drilling sites Two drilling sites KNY-1 and BYU-1 in the Our comprehensive Health, Safety, Environment, Nganzi Block have been fully restored with Social and Security HSESS management engagement with local communities and system identifies relevant risks, responsibilities, authorities regarding their final use.
measurements, monitoring and responses across Restoration at the third site is underway.
the whole lifecycle of a project, including with suppliers and business partners.
EIAs are carried out at all locations prior to any exploration activities and at new junctures of a project.
SOCO International plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Further information is available on our website: www.
com block v, dRC and Environmental Processes in Vietnam virunga national park vinp At Blocks 16-1 and 9-2, the JOCs have processes whereby all wastewater and sewage is treated prior By planning and conducting our to discharge.
Solid waste is collected, segregated operations responsibly and by and transported to shore in compliance with the We can confirm confidently engaging constructively and Vietnamese Hazardous Waste Management transparently with our key we will never seek to have legislation.
We use an authorised contractor for stakeholders, our aim operations in the Virunga waste disposal services, including segregation is to be a positive presence in Volcanoes or the Virunga and recycling where possible.
each region that we operate.
Block V was designated for oil Scope 1 Emissions exploration by the Government of DRC DRC, and awarded to SOCO Notwithstanding two producing oil fields, the in 2010.
DRC retains a 15% interest JOCs seek to minimise Scope 1 emissions by the in the Block which is of high interest to technical processes involved.
On the Ca Ngu stakeholders as it encompasses a section of Vang field, a contained process is utilised which ViNP, including principally Lake Edward and the transports hydrocarbons via a subsea pipeline to savannah area to its south, but specifically a processing platform, enabling fugitive excluding the entirety of the Mountain Gorilla emissions to the air and water to be minimised.
Impacts of war and civil conflict remain a In the case of TGT, Scope 1 emissions are primary threat to ViNP and classify it as a site in minimised by recycling produced gas into the danger.
We continue to believe that responsibly high level DRC Government officials, including production process as gas lift and through conducted commercial activities can join the evaluation meetings with the Minister of exporting gas to a processing platform for conservation community in concerted efforts to Environment and his cabinet, who granted an onward sale.
environmental acceptability certificate for proposed aerial surveys, as discussed below.
Any activity approved by DRC and ultimately conducted must be designed to minimise any An Environmental Monitoring Committee has been effects on the species and habitats of the specific established for the specific purpose of monitoring area that may be impacted.
In addition to commitments under the Block V license, SOCO has provided an official In 2011, environmental and social impact commitment letter for rehabilitation.
assessments were completed and approved, following a consultation process across a full Activities currently contemplated include scientific spectrum of concerned stakeholders which has research studies comprising aerial surveys over included as example: Lake Edward.
Depending on the results, and following appropriate consultation, consideration local villagers on the banks of Lake Edward, will be given, potentially in the third quarter of 2012 where we are committed to a social programme to the conduct of further scientific studies aimed at addressing specific needs identified in comprising a compressed air, non-explosive consultation with the community: seismic acquisition on Lake Edward.
Other ViNP officials and rangers, where we have held operators have conducted similar activities on Lake discussion forums, consulted with Groupe Albert, as well as other portions of the Albertine dEtudes Environnementales du Congo on Rift.
No operations have commenced and no evaluation of the assessments and entered into a drilling has been planned at the time of writing.
cooperation agreement with the Congolese Wildlife Authority ICCN to ensure ongoing monitoring and support of ViNP during our involvement: SOCO International plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
