32 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility Introduction Approximately 60% of our manufacturing operations by turnover are Spectris is a leading supplier of  instrumentation certified to the international environmental standard ISO 14001. and controls.
We employ around 7,500 people working from over 130 In 2011, as part of our commitment to environmental responsibility, locations in more than 30 countries around the world.
Our products are we commenced participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an used to monitor and control research and manufacturing processes, independent not-for-profit organisation reporting on corporate climate enabling customers in a wide range of industries to enhance their change information.
We were pleased to be placed in the top third of productivity and thereby also reduce their environmental impact.
We are committed to creating business growth through adding such Our environmental reporting processes have been established by value for our customers, whilst also ensuring that our own impact on external consultants WS Atkins.
Corporate responsibility CR underpins our business strategy, and our primary corporate value of honesty and We have commenced a programme to audit significant suppliers integrity influences all of our dealings with our customers, employees against relevant criteria stipulated in the social accountability standard and communities in which we operate.
The core areas of our CR SA8000 and to date have audited the top 50% of key suppliers in strategy are corporate governance, environment and climate change, Asia.
A number of the suppliers audited have committed to gaining our people, our communities, customers and suppliers.
To measure the critical components of our CR strategy, we have Corporate governance adopted the following key performance indicators: Details of how the company complied with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2011 are described in detail in Energy consumption the Directors Report.
2011 2010 Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on MWh per m revenue 65.6 92.8 environmental, social, ethical and health and safety matters, and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board of directors Accident incident Rate and, in particular, the Chief Executive.
These policies are mandated 2011 2010 across all business units and applied within each particular business, taking account of local legislation and regulation.
All policies are Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees 2.7 5.3 reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
Each year we require the president and finance Opportunities director of each operating company to confirm that their business has Climate change, in particular, provides opportunities to develop new complied in full with our corporate policies.
Any instances of products which contribute to reducing our customers impact on the non-compliance must be reported.
There were no material cases of environment, for example by lowering energy consumption or raw non-compliance in 2011. material usage.
We recently helped a major cement company to achieve a 20-30% reduction in CO emissions per tonne of cement 2 This certification forms an integral part of the companys system of by developing a new type of clinker with a lower carbon footprint internal controls, and is regularly reviewed by the groups internal see case study on page 33.
Our products are also used in the audit function and considered annually by the companys external development of renewable energy technologies, for example the auditors.
Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews.
design and testing of new materials for wind turbine blades, solar Through a structured review process, the internal audit function panels and lithium ion batteries for electric vehicles.
Our systems are undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational basis.
These visits also used for remote monitoring of wind turbines and hydroelectric involve an assessment of the business key internal controls as well as power stations.
compliance with thegroups policies and procedures.
Theresults of Independent accreditation internal auditsand any cases of non-compliance are reported to the Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the audit and risk committee.
FTSE4Good index, the leading responsible investment benchmark.
Environment and climate change The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are enhanced regularly and demand Our core business of providing instruments and controls for the design continued improvement in order to maintain inclusion in the index.
and manufacturing processes of major industrial companies helps our The criteria are assessed on a regular basis by the independent customers to reduce their environmental impact in a number of ways.
We offer our customers products and technologies to reduce energy consumption, make more efficient use of resources, and control stations.
Furthermore, a number of our products are critical to the development, manufacture and maintenance of renewable energy generation technologies, as described above.
Examples of the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial contribution to the environment are shown on our website.
We also take the continuing reduction in our own environmental impact seriously, as set out in our environmental policy, which is 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 published on our website.
We endeavour to employ non-polluting Climate change technology wherever possible in our operations and take steps to Overall, Spectris has a low climate change impact, as our products do reduce our energy consumption further.
Design processes take into not require substantial manufacturing processes at our facilities.
account the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life Nevertheless, we take the need to manage our carbon emissions removal or disposal.
Consideration is also given to environmentseriously and also acknowledge responsibility for our suppliers, friendly production, packaging and shipping.
working with them to help reduce their impact on the environment.
Although we fall below the threshold for full participation in the UK Environmental management systems CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and are only required to submit an Approximately 60% of Spectris manufacturing operations by information disclosure, we are working to improve our environmental turnover are certified to ISO 14001.
In 2011, Brel & Kjrs facility at performance and reduce our carbon emissions.
With the help of Royston, England formerly the LDS Test and Measurement business, environmental consultants WS Atkins, we undertook a sustainability which was acquired in 2008, successfully achieved ISO 14001 and responsibility review in 2010 and during 2011 we put in place certification.
actions across the group in response to their recommendations, which are detailed below.
No significant environmental incidents were recorded in 2011 and the company received no environmental fines.
In 2007, we reported that Our sustainability objectives are designed to improve our investigative studies into a small area of contaminated land at Almelo environmental performance and increase the importance of health in The Netherlands, resulting from activities prior to ownership by and safety, human rights and ethics across the group.
Roger Stephens, PANalytical, had been made and a remediation programme discussed company secretary, has overall responsibility for setting and with the Dutch authorities.
This programme has now been agreed and monitoring the sustainability strategy.
The managing directors and removal of the contaminated soil, followed by pumping and filtering presidents of our business units are responsible for implementing the cleaning of the contaminated water will commence during 2012. strategy at a local level.
Energy With regard to the environment, our initial priority is to focus on PANalytical helps to reduce accurate measurement and monitoring of three key parameters: electricity, gas and water.
In order to better understand and manage carbon footprint in cement our energy use, we have established a Key Performance Indicator production relating to energy consumption.
Cement production is responsible for around 5% Energy consumption of global man-made CO 2 Mwh per m revenue emissions.
A large proportion of these emissions result 2011 65.6 from the decarbonisation of limestone at high 2010 92.8 temperatures to produce We estimate that the above energy consumption metric covers 100% of clinker, the basic component of cement.
Having already reduced our operations.
Acquisitions are excluded in the year of acquisition.
its carbon footprint by modernising installations, substituting fossil fuels with alternative fuel sources and using additives to produce less carbon intensive blended cements, one possible Actions to deliver progress are focused on internal initiatives, rather way for the cement industry to make significant future than group-wide targets, with the emphasis on businesses with the improvements is to develop completely new cement types.
As a result, we made good progress Project AETHER is a project being led by Lafarge, world leader on reducing energy usage in 2011, with actions around the group in building materials, to develop a new class of cements which including installing energy-saving lighting and motion sensors and more require much less limestone and less energy to produce than energy-efficient air conditioning systems at a number of sites.
Fusion UV conventional Portland cements.
The project has received funding Systems, one of our most intensive energy-using businesses, has from the European Communitys LIFE environmental upgraded the facilities for life testing of their equipment at their North programme.
A first industrial demonstration trial to produce American headquarters to be more efficient and this has enabled them AETHER clinkers was carried out in 2011 at Lafarges cement to reduce electricity consumption.
Fusion aims to reduce energy usage plant in Burgundy, France, using PANalyticals XRD and XRF by 30% over the next three years.
At our HBM facility in Germany, analysers and software for quality control and analysis.
This trial electricity consumption has reduced despite a 15% increase in confirmed that AETHER clinkers could be produced at lower production.
PANalyticals new X-ray tube facility at Eindhoven, The temperatures and using significantly less energy than Netherlands, which opened in September 2011, and which has been conventional Portland cement clinker, generating 20-30% less designed to modern building standards, is expected to reduce 2 CO per tonne of cement.
Independent testing is now ongoing consumption of gas and electricity per m by 10% compared with the 2 to assess the mechanical performance and durability of mortars old building.
At PANalyticals Almelo site in The Netherlands, gas and concretes made with AETHER cements.
consumption in 2011 was 30% lower than in the prior year and 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 34 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility continued electricity consumption for testing of high power instruments has also executive or non-executive search assignment will be required to been reduced following changes to production processes.
adhere to the principles set out in the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
However, the Board does not believe it would Water be helpful to establish specific employment targets relating to As Spectris products do not require substantial manufacturing diversity.
processes, our sites are not large users of water.
Nevertheless, we recognise the importance of managing this limited natural resource, Spectris operates globally in more than 30 countries and is focused on particularly in certain parts of the world, and we seek accurate growing its presence in industrialising economies such as China, India site-specific water reports for all of our largest facilities.
The data and Latin America and across a broad base of end user markets.
We collection exercise has already shown results in China, where evidence will continue to strengthen our existing group-wide inclusion policies of abnormally high consumption at one of our production facilities to attract and retain the most talented and appropriate people, enabled system modifications and a significant reduction in water particularly reflecting the different markets and geographies in which usage.
At our Fusion UV Systems site in North America, overall water we operate.
usage has been reduced by 50% following installation of a chiller Our value of treating others with respect carries over to our policy recirculation system used in bulb manufacturing.
At our site in The against workplace discrimination and harassment.
We strive to create Netherlands, consumption of cooling water for a specific production a culture of honesty, respect and professional excellence whilst process has been reduced by 90% using closed circuit cooling.
maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal lives, Employees with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities providing We employ a highly skilled technical workforce of around 7,500 family-friendly working conditions.
Employee surveys are carried out in people, in more than 130 locations throughout the world, and are a number of companies to measure the views of employees on committed to providing our staff with a creative working environment company issues and action plans agreed to address the issues raised.
with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
Initiatives such as the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading to all UK employees, and grants under the groups Performance Share companies in the sector, are designed to reward the achievement of Plan made to senior management across the group, are designed to objectives.
Our employment policy is published on our website.
A commitment to training and personal development emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the group and ensuring that As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied all employees are encouraged to realise their full potential.
Annual backgrounds and perspectives add creativity to the company and thus reviews provide feedback on performance, set objectives and identify we encourage diversity in the workplace.
We are committed to training and development opportunities.
Data on employee turnover is providing equal employment opportunities in terms of recruitment and monitored by individual businesses and reported to the Board on an employment, training and development, and promotion, regardless of annual basis.
Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK businesses, race, colour, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, have received the Investors in People award for their programmes of disability or military veteran status.
training, appraisal, employee development and skills recognition.
The Board has discussed the recommendations in the Davies Report Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in Women on Boards.
The Board recognises the benefits of all facets of a number of our companies, providing opportunities for young people, diversity, including experience and perspective, both at Board level and particularly scientists, to be introduced to the business environment.
Any search firm engaged in a senior Health and safety We take health and safety seriously and strive to provide a workplace at all of our sites where all employees feel safe and protected from Malvern Instruments scientist harm.
Our policies regarding workplace health and safety are implemented throughout the group, with each operating company receives Award responsible for compliance with local legislation and regulations and In November, Dr E. Neil Lewis, ensuring that the highest standards of health and safety are achieved Chief Technology Officer at by its employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers.
The companys Malvern Instruments, was health and safety policy can be viewed on our website.
awarded the prestigious Ernst Abbe Memorial Award of the Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at New York Microscopical all major locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the Society in recognition of his groups insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made outstanding contributions to for improving practices where appropriate.
the science of microscopy, specifically for the development of Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by chemical imaging microscopy.
Dr. Lewis above, right was the managing director of the business in an accident report to the founder and president of Spectral Dimensions, Inc SDI, the company secretary, who reports on such issues to the Board.
All company Malvern Instruments acquired in 2006. accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective and 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 preventative actions put in place.
No work-related serious injuries or Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our deaths have been reported in the last ten years.
Nevertheless, we have operating companies are required to ensure that all employees are established a formal system to monitor the health and safety situation aware of the policy and understand it.
The Code of Business Ethics throughout the group by reporting work-related accidents or ill-health also contains a section on human rights and employees are required to resulting in lost time in excess of 3 days.
The resulting data is shown ensure that all company operations adhere to these important below expressed as a Key Performance Indicator.
Pay practices are monitored to ensure they are nondiscriminatory.
Accident incident Rate AiR The region president is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical 1 Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based operations.
Spectris has a number of sales offices in China and also factories which supply high quality weighing components and particle characterisation 2011 2.7 instruments.
These comprise modern facilities, employ skilled workers, 2010 5.3 adopt employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pay wages that are higher than average for the area.
1 Work-related accidents ill health resulting in lost time in excess of 3 days Acquisitions are excluded in the year of acquisition Advanced Production Facilities Our aim is to reduce the AIR to the lowest possible level and we are working closely with our operating companies to achieve this.
Within HBMs modern strain gauge the above figure, there were five significant work-related incidents manufacturing facility at resulting in lost time in excess of 20 working days.
These comprised Suzhou, China, is identical to its two employees with stress-related conditions, one employee who European counterparts with suffered a fractured thumb whilst operating a machine, one employee regard to the advanced who was hit by a steel cable in the workplace and one employee who equipment used, safe working slipped and fell in the office car park.
Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process for world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human acquisitions, ensuring that the core labour rights, including nonrights standards wherever it operates.
The companys human rights discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of association, of the policy, which is available on our website, is consistent with the company to be acquired are taken into account.
Principles of Human Rights as set out in the International Labour Organizations Core Conventions, and includes policies on nonEthics discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
Our group philosophy is one of autonomy, with our operating companies entrusted and empowered to run and manage their businesses.
We believe that establishing and maintaining an ethical culture is critical to supporting our business model and ensuring our continued business success and growth.
Since 2009, we have had a well-established formal Ethics Programme the Programme made up BTG wins Palme dOr of a number of elements.
In September, BTGs new Our Code of Business Ethics the Code is a central element of our PeakTotal2 in-line transmitter Programme.
Our core values as set out in the Code underpin the way won the Palme dOr for we work.
The Code applies to all our employees and is available in the Innovation from ATIP, the 15 languages relevant to our operations.
It provides a framework for French paper association, for how we do business and includes a clear policy on anti-bribery and its unique ability to measure corruption as well as dealings with customers, suppliers, colleagues, total consistency and ash conflicts of interest and human rights.
A copy of our Code is available content.
At the heart of the within the corporate responsibility section on our website.
new transmitter is an innovative light-emitting system that The Spectris Board and senior management team are fully committed measures reflectance from the slurry at very high frequency, using to responsible business conduct and demonstrate visible leadership in advanced signal processing.
The resulting data provides highly this area.
John OHiggins, Chief Executive, and Roger Stephens, accurate information about the fibre, fines, and filler content of company secretary, actively drive the Programme and fully engage the pulp, with results unaffected by pulp colour or brightness with our businesses on ethical and anti-corruption issues.
The levels, helping paper manufacturers to reduce operating costs.
company secretary chaired, and the Chief Executive attended, The BTG team L to R : Bernard Rodriguez, Didier Conjeaud, Philippe Genest, the Spectris Global Ethical Leadership Conference in October 2011 Gwnal Tartarat-Bardet, and Claude Vallier.
at which all of our businesses were represented.
In addition, presentations and workshops on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 36 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility continued fraud risk are delivered at our annual Presidents meetings.
During Spectris places the highest importance on compliance with all the Board visit to our operations in China in June 2011, both the applicable export control regulations governing shipment of products Chairman and Chief Executive devoted a significant proportion of and appropriate detailed procedures are in place in each operating presentations to local management to the importance of integrity in company.
Designated export control officers are responsible for the all our business dealings.
The Board and senior management teams development of these procedures, their administration and the commitment to the Programme was further demonstrated during the associated training of staff.
Overall responsibility for the policy vests year by the appointment of additional senior resource at the corporate with Roger Stephens, company secretary.
The export control officers centre focused on embedding ethical leadership across the group and are assisted in their duties by a dedicated group export control advisor, implementing the Programme.
who led a refresher conference for all export control officers in September 2011.
All companies are subject to periodic internal audit The Board is given regular updates on the Programme and ethical of their procedures and associated conformity, with reporting annually issues across the group by the company secretary and the audit and to the audit and risk committee.
Our export control policy can be risk committee meets at least three times a year to consider the viewed on our website.
effectiveness of the groups internal controls, policies and procedures.
The group internal audit department carries out a rolling programme We actively promote a speak-up culture at Spectris and employees are of internal control reviews and compliance with the Code forms part encouraged to discuss issues of concern or any suspected violations of of the focus of these.
This work is supplemented by specific, periodic the law or our Code with their managers.
This is supplemented with assessments of fraud risks including bribery in our operations.
an  telephone and internet-based multi-lingual hotline to enable employees and others to report concerns Face-to-face training delivered by local operating company anonymously if they wish.
All reports are followed up and investigated management is core to engaging with employees on ethical issues and and reports are summarised and communicated to the audit and risk is an integral part of raising knowledge and awareness of our Code.
In the past 12 months, the hotline Newly-hired staff receive training as part of their induction and there has been used on a number of occasions and the reports followed up are regular refresher courses for all employees.
This is supplemented by the head of internal audit to conclusion.
Spectris is committed to with annual online training.
During the year, an anti-bribery module protecting the career and reputation of employees who report was successfully rolled out in 13 of our 14 operating companies.
Our wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long as business integration processes cover ethics and anti-bribery and the their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the remaining business our recent acquisition, Omega Engineering is in best interests of the group.
the process of being assimilated into the Programme.
An additional online training module focused on conflicts of interest will be rolled Community out across all of our businesses in early 2012.
Ongoing training and Our social responsibilities extend to the communities in which we awareness is co-ordinated by ethics officers appointed within each operate.
Our companies provide charitable assistance to local causes operating company and our Asia and Latin America sales companies.
and also participate in a range of activities and educational initiatives The ethics officers are responsible for supporting their senior in support of their local communities.
These include providing leadership teams in embedding high ethical standards within their apprenticeships and work placements for students, working with local businesses and facilitating the training and awareness process.
schools and colleges on science projects, and sponsorship of scientists attending key scientific conferences.
Our commitment to high standards of ethical behaviour pre-dates the UK Bribery Act, but we are cognisant of the heightened legal risks Total donations to charities and community causes in 2011 were arising as a result of the new legislation and increased global 76,541, of which 10,935 were in the UK 2010: 27,429 of which enforcement activity.
As a result, an independent external risk 8,286 in UK.
This included donations to the Red Cross in response assessment was carried out in March 2011 to identify risks and test to the tsunami and earthquake in Japan and the East Africa crisis, and the efficacy of the existing Programme.
The review provided valuable to other charities and local schools and colleges.
In addition, the Global Leadership Conference held in It is Spectris policy that donations or provision of support in kind to October the second since the Programme was launched provided political parties or campaigns are prohibited.
feedback which formed the basis of the strategy for the next iteration of the Programme.
This, together with the results from the risk Customers assessment, has resulted in a number of initiatives to be developed Spectris sells  instrumentation and services to a and implemented during the course of 2012.
These include: continued large number of customers around the world.
We have developed focus on developing ethical leadership across our businesses through a close working relationships with our customers and in many instances series of senior management engagement days: increased emphasis involve them in the development of new products to ensure they meet on face-to-face training for all employees: a revised version of the their requirements.
Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on Code and development of other supporting materials to be launched a regular basis.
in the first half of 2012: and formalisation of our third-party management and due diligence framework.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Suppliers Spectris has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent upon Servomex sponsors Great Egg Race the companys business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and Servomex has supported the legal obligations.
annual Great Servomex Egg We recognise that our strategy of outsourcing non-core Race organised by Beacon manufacturing does not absolve us from responsibility for the Community College in environmental impact of our suppliers and we work to help them Crowborough, England, for reduce their impact on the environment and ensure that their products twenty years, providing the meet relevant legislation.
Outsourcing of products and services is only funding for materials, to quality-approved organisations which are regularly inspected and refreshments and prizes.
In audited by the groups strategic sourcing team and local management.
March, ninety enthusiastic pupils took part from different schools Due to the high technology content of our instrumentation and in the area.
Despite its name, this is not actually an egg race, but control products, suppliers of our parts need to have leading edge a test of the childrens ingenuity and imagination.
This year the manufacturing equipment and are subject to rigorous qualification science challenge saw the pupils given the scenario of stranded processes which cover both their technological capabilities and their animals in a Kenyan nature reserve.
Their task was to translate a quality and regulatory conformance.
nature reserve sign, make a mask to disguise themselves so the animals would not be scared and make a crane-like arm to lift In order to gain improved assurance from suppliers, we are auditing food to the animals.
First prize was won by students from Jarvis current, and screening new, significant suppliers those providing Brook school.
bespoke parts, assemblies and systems, against relevant criteria stipulated in the social accountability standard SA8000.
The audit covers areas such as human rights, working conditions, health and safety and environmental compliance, in addition to our ongoing third-party auditing body.
To date we have focused our attention on programme of quality and technological audits.
The initiative has our lower cost manufacturing sources in Asia and we may extend this commenced in Asia, where to date we have audited the top 50% of initiative to other regions as required.
We will also be applying the key suppliers by order value.
The remainder will be audited by the same auditing process to our three manufacturing facilities in China end of 2012.
The audit covers all prospective suppliers of bespoke with a target completion by end of 2012. parts and all existing suppliers where we purchase in excess of $100,000 year and is carried out by Spectris internal auditors in Asia Contractual arrangements who have all received external training and qualifications.
No The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are fundamental non-conformances against our standards have been essential to the business of the company, nor any key customers or discovered.
Where minor non-compliance areas have been found, major suppliers upon which it is dependent.
corrective actions and completion dates have been agreed with the suppliers.
Suppliers have all been very co-operative in implementing the necessary improvements, and a number have additionally committed to gaining SA8000 certification through an approved Red Lion receives First Team Supplier Award The readers of Automation World awarded Red Lion a First Team Supplier in the publications Leadership in Automation 2011 programme.
Red Lion was honoured in three different categories for its industrial control products, as well as for industrial networking products from the recentlyacquired Sixnet and N-Tron businesses.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
