Corporate social responsibility The Group takes seriously its corporate social responsibility CSR to all of its stakeholders in safeguarding the performance of the business in an environmentally friendly way.
The Group comprises two world-leading niche businesses.
Highlights Spirax Sarco providing steam specialties and Watson-Marlow providing peristaltic and niche pumps.
We assist our customers In Mexico we were voted a Great Place to achieve environmentally friendly solutions for energy savings, to Work process efficiency and plant health, safety and regulatory compliance.
Our highly skilled direct sales engineers provide Progress with employee grading and solutions to an extremely wide range of customers, across most increased focus on training and development industrial sectors, to help address customers sustainability strengthens our performance culture and aids issues related to energy use, emissions and water usage.
We build close working relationships with our customers and are employee recruitment and retention well placed to identify new product development opportunities Our energy saving products continue to to save energy, reduce waste and improve product quality.
reduce our customers CO emissions 2 The Board continues to strongly support and apply CSR principles in conducting the Groups business in a socially Progress made towards achieving ISO 14001 acceptable and sustainable way, having regard to all its status in more of our operating companies stakeholders.
The Group operates under a detailed Group Social support provided to benefit local Management Code a copy of which is posted on the Groups website, which is regularly reviewed and with which general communities managers are required to certify compliance.
The Board focuses Factory consolidations and increased local on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters and takes manufacturing reduce environmental impact very seriously health and safety issues.
The Group achieves compliance with the principles and requirements of CSR through Strengthened policies relating to the 2010 UK the risk management process, such that the necessary policies, Bribery Act and provided increased training.
procedures and systems are embedded in daily operations.
The Groups decentralised structure provides for detailed local management of SEE matters by General Managers in each Company, who report to, and are monitored by, regional management and Divisional Directors.
Womens day centre in India In India, our Associate company gives priority to improving education and womens health.
28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group demonstrates its commitment to CSR by engaging our Our Brazilian company launched a graduate trainee programme employees in specific initiatives and community activities around in the autumn of 2010.
Nineteen graduate engineers were hired the world.
This section of our Annual Report demonstrates what for a 6-month training programme aimed at bringing into the we are doing to embed CSR into our daily work.
business the calibre of people and skills required to further develop our Brazilian business.
The graduate engineers went Our people through a rigorous selection process for the programme and People are at the heart of our business and we are committed were selected from more than 3,000 applicants amongst to providing equal opportunities in our employment practices.
Because this programme was such We uphold the principles of human rights and ensure that all a success, we have decided to launch a similar programme our employees are treated fairly and with integrity, regardless in the UK in 2012. of age, gender, race, disability, religion or sexual orientation.
This At Watson-Marlow UK, 23 employees attended the BiT NVQ applies equally to promotion, development and training, and to programme to learn important skills in order to work more recruitment of new employees.
The Group has a policy of nonindependently and to identify further opportunities for their own discrimination and does not tolerate bullying and or harassment personal development.
The recruitment procedures throughout the Group prohibit the employment of underage staff.
We want to ensure that the best people join our Company but we also have an obligation to our existing employees in helping The Group has five Core Values which define the culture of them learn new skills and preparing them to assume increasing the business and the behaviours we expect of our people.
The launch of the Spirax Sarco Leadership Core Values have been communicated to all employees and are Academy, in association with the Ashridge Business School integrated into our people management activities and daily work.
in the UK, will take our future leaders through a challenging The Core Values are: Respect: Accountability: Passion: Integrity programme as part of their individual development.
They define our desired behaviours and the qualities that all our employees are expected to live and work by.
We are determined to build a performance culture in which people are valued for what they do and the behaviours they exhibit.
All our employees deserve the opportunity to achieve their full, individual potential through training and personal development.
We ensure that job positions are advertised internally and roles are filled based on skills and abilities.
We continue to invest in the development of important technical and commercial skills of our sales people we have appointed a global training director to lead our new Knowledge Sustainability programme.
One of the advantages of being a multi-national employer with over 4,700 employees in more than 50 different countries is that our employees bring very diverse, local perspectives to the business.
The Group benefits by having a more expansive view of its growth opportunities and requirements to be successful.
Mexico Great place to work In 2011, our Mexican company was, for the third year in a row, awarded the title of a Great Place to Work by the global Great Over 4,700 employees Place to Work Institute.
This award backs up our long-standing in more than 50 different countries reputation in Mexico.
The Great Place to Work survey ranks companies on credibility, respect, fairness, pride and camaraderie the Mexican competition included employee surveys from more than 500 companies.
To support our performance culture and ensure consistency of our approach to compensation, in 2011 we completed a Health and safety management comprehensive review of local compensation practices and Health and safety is fundamental to the overall success of benchmarked industry compensation norms.
With the support the organisation, especially in our manufacturing operations of an external consultant, we evaluated most of our job positions and must be our number one priority.
Each of our major and developed a grading structure to match equivalent external manufacturing operations has a Health and Safety Committee, roles worldwide.
This provides our employees with a clear advised by a safety officer, and a programme is in place for structure for career progression and enables our executive team appropriate employee training.
We have developed policies to more easily consider geographic employment relocations that that carefully outline our expectations to employee health and benefit the development of the employee and the business.
personal safety and we expect all visitors to abide by the same We are concerned for the health and wellbeing of all our rules and policies.
General managers provide regular reports employees.
As an example, our US operating company has in a process controlled by Neil Daws, Executive Director Asia led the way in encouraging employees to take their health and Pacific and Supply, who has been given overall responsibility safety more seriously and have organised 5km walks and for health, safety and environmental matters for the Group.
sponsored runs, in which about 200 employees have taken part with their families.
Talent, learning and development We constantly seek ways to improve Developing our employees and helping them to achieve our health and safety performance: their maximum potential is critical to our success and to the productivity and happiness of our employees.
This is why we we review our policies regularly and encourage and support all employees to pursue their education ensure our local health and safety and complete academic coursework in order to obtain higher, teams update their procedures relevant professional qualifications.
appropriately Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview Environment The Group is cognisant of its impact on the environment in conducting its business around the world and in the manufacture of our products.
We are committed to reducing our overall carbon footprint, conserving water in our manufacturing processes and reducing the amount of per unit energy consumption.
In short, we are committed to managing and improving our environmental impact at all our sites.
Environmental achievements Since 2008, the Group has reported its carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project in the UK.
In 2011, we were awarded a carbon disclosure index of 65 demonstrating a year-on-year improvement.
The chart below shows a breakdown of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions.
We have continued to assess how much our energy-saving products reduce customers CO emissions.
Our calculations 2 use externally-verified methodology and indicate customer Environmental improvements at Runnings Road savings of four million tonnes in 2011.
This is significantly greater Newly insulated roof at Runnings Road saves energy and reduces than the amount of CO we generate in the manufacture of lighting costs.
Our US operating company has implemented a system to ISO 14001 accreditation measure water consumption, which resulted in a 10% decrease ISO 14001 is a well-established environmental management in consumption.
system and one we are progressively adopting throughout the Group.
About 60% of our manufacturing output now comes At Watson-Marlows main manufacturing plant in Falmouth, UK, from operations with an ISO 14001 management system in we invested in voltage optimisation equipment that reduced place.
Our companies in Korea and Mexico joined seven other power consumption by 17%.
company operations in 2011 in being awarded ISO 14001 accreditation.
We prefer working with suppliers who have Groups annual review of greenhouse gas emissions obtained ISO 14001 accreditation and this forms part of our Our carbon intensity, per million pound turnover, decreased 12% supplier approval process.
Our total carbon footprint reduced 3% to Recycling 28,992 tonnes C0 e. The Group is confident that our long-term 2 We are working to reduce our manufacturing waste and recycle global manufacturing strategy, which results in more products as much as possible.
Our Cheltenham manufacturing site being manufactured locally, will have a positive impact in continuing recycled 94% of all its waste in 2011. to reduce our carbon intensity.
Local responsibility As a worldwide business, we work in local communities all over Electricity 46% scope 2 the world.
We have nine main manufacturing plants located on Business travel 34% scope 1 nearly every continent and continue to implement our global Natural gas 13% scope 1 Gas oil 4% scope 1 manufacturing strategy that is increasing the amount of local Other 3% scope 1 manufacture.
A big benefit of this strategy is that we are able to streamline transportation logistics in our supply chain, in turn lowering the impacts on the environment from manufacturing our products.
In 2011, we completed the consolidation of three Cheltenham manufacturing sites onto a single site, thereby reducing local vehicle traffic and the transport of components from one site to another.
In the nearly 30 million of construction and renovation projects, we guided our outside contractors and suppliers to use local companies and subcontractors whereverpossible.
We have a wide range of customers and suppliers.
We generally source key raw materials from at least two separate suppliers Unity Project UK manufacturing consolidation to reduce the risk of disruption in our supply chain.
We have As we consolidated our UK steam business manufacturing developed comprehensive supplier selection criteria around to one site, we investigated ways of harnessing the latest the world and only work with suppliers that can adhere to our technology to make our Cheltenham site more environmentally quality standards, ethical business practices and that follow friendly.
Some of the initiatives we implemented included a our principles regarding health and safety.
Suppliers must water-harvesting facility that collects rainwater for recycling in consistently achieve the standards required by ISO 9001. our Energy Technology Centre, increasing the thickness of the factory roof insulation above recommended standards to save additional energy, and increasing the number of roof skylights, raising the amount of natural light and reducing lighting costs.
30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Communities Our contribution to local communities is not just about providing jobs and contributing to the local economy.
We know it is important to give something back, so our long-established Group Charitable Trust donated 132,400 in support of registered charities and other worthy causes.
We encourage our local operating companies to support local charities and organise their own activities.
During 2011, the Group Charitable Trust donated to the relief efforts following the devastating Japanese earthquake and tsunami and to the Australian Flood Appeal.
In Japan, our staff assisted in the relief efforts following the tsunami.
In Queensland, Australia, we also provided the use of our vehicle fleet to a member of our team involved with the State Emergency Team to help in the rescue effort.
In India, our Associate company gives priority to improving education and womens health.
One of our initiatives teaches Spirax Sarco stand at the Cheltenham Science Festival Our research engineers developed a highly successful and English and life skills to children at three after-school centres.
In the UK, we support The National Star College, a Cheltenhambased charity whose mission is to enable people with disabilities to realise their potential through a personalised learning, Four world-class arts and science festivals are held throughout transition and lifestyle service.
the year in Cheltenham, England, the site of our worldwide headquarters.
We are delighted to be actively involved in the promotion of science to all ages through our sponsorship of the Science Festival, which encourages people to view science as fun.
It also provides young people with more information about career opportunities in engineering.
In 2011, our research engineers developed a hugely successful Learning Zone experiment to teach children about how steam is used in todays technologically advanced world.
We are already planning another interactive stand for 2012.
In September 2011, we hosted an Open Day in Cheltenham, where more than 900 current and retired employees saw firsthand how our refurbished sites will help us achieve our growth targets.
Employees from one part of the business could see the investments made in other parts of the business.
It also allowed employees to share our progress and commitment with their families.
Anti-bribery The Group is absolutely clear that we do not permit bribery and corruption.
This has long been included in the Groups Management Code, which we review annually and is issued to all subsidiaries and business units worldwide.
With the London to Paris bike ride in aid of the National Star College introduction of the 2010 UK Bribery Act, the Group has In July 2011 a team of ten cyclists from Spirax Sarco completed strengthened its Management Code and has issued additional a challenging ride from London to Paris in just three days.
They guidance to all personnel.
The guidance is available on our trained extremely hard for the occasion and worked tirelessly to intranet in 15 different languages and is accessible to all fundraise for National Star College.
In total, they raised more than employees.
We provided detailed local briefings to management 15,000 and completed the ride in one of the fastest times the teams and made a further presentation on the subject to tour group has seen.
The money from their efforts is being used to our senior leadership team at a conference.
Our operating improve facilities for disabled students at National Star College and companies have written to all distributors and agents worldwide is hugely appreciated.
to make clear our policy on anti-bribery and corruption.
We Laura Brookes, Fundraising PartnershipsManager have strengthened and expanded our internal audit process to confirm compliance with the policy.
We have also made compliance with the Bribery Act a standalone risk in the Groups risk management programme and require our business leaders to report regularly on compliance.
We are developing further briefings and training on these issues and will roll them out in2012.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
