Key achievements include: Sustainability Food waste 4,000 tonnes per year Our Support Centre in Burton upon This year our pubs now goes to anaerobic digestion Trent reflects our commitment to raised 69,000 for to create green power creating a sustainable environment.
The Prostate Cancer Glass to date, 682 pubs 83% Solar panels on the roof heat water Charity.
of the estate have glass recycling for the building and its design and units installed.
We are also trialling construction have been managed to glass crushers in 25 pubs which deliver a high BRE Environmental are showing encouraging benefits.
Assessment Model BREEAM rating The aim for 2012 is to get 100% back and mitigate its environmental impact.
via our drinks supply chain Cardboard 100% of our cardboard Community is recycled via our food distributor Pubs are the heart of local communities Cooking oil last year, one million and the driving force behind many litres was collected from our pubs.
Our pub teams raise We are now looking at using this to hundreds of thousands of pounds every power heating units at selected pubs year for local causes.
Monies raised Tin and plastic these materials are in the last year include 69,000 for also recycled via our food distributor The Prostate Cancer Charity, 7,700 for Help for Heroes and 2,800 for We are now focusing our efforts on Comic Relief.
making packaging 100% recyclable, reducing packing use or looking at We are also one of the biggest using returnable assets in our drink supporters of Pubaid, which aims to supply to further reduce landfill.
highlight the fantastic work that pubs do to support the communities they serve We ensure that suppliers look to and we encourage our pub teams to procure their raw materials through register their fundraising totals.
We also continue to work closely To reinforce our pubs strong with our suppliers to identify where we commitment to charitable causes, Spirit can utilise our current furniture in the is committed to local charities that will estate by refurbishing or reconditioning promote and support young people rather than buying new products, within the Burton upon Trent area, which will further reduce impact on where our Support Centre is located.
This year, we supported over 30 local This approach is consistent across causes to the amount of 25,000, the business: for example, in sourcing from local Scout and football clubs a uniform supplier for nearly 15,000 pub to camping trips for the Happy Days team members, we appointed a business childrens charity.
This was part funded with strong ethical principles that has by employees through a combination reduced its energy consumption by 20%.
Earlier this year, we also raised over 5,000 for the Queens Hospital Burton CT Scanner Appeal.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 21 Business review
