Governance Audit & Risk Committee report continued During the 2011 12 financial year the Committee will Employee concerns conduct a review of the effectiveness of the system of The Company has in place documented fraud, bribery internal control of the Company to ensure the effectiveness and whistle blowing policies and procedures to enable of those controls in order to safeguard shareholders employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties interests and the Companys assets and guarantee that that may occur within the Group.
Any reported incidents robust financial reporting processes are in place, and will are internally investigated and documented with follow up report to the Board that they have done so.
Such systems, action taken as appropriate.
During the period, it was agreed including controls for financial, operational, compliance and that the whistle blowing policy should be reviewed to risk management matters, are designed to manage rather encourage reporting on an identified or anonymous basis, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys and that the Companys policies and training in respect of strategic objectives.
However, it should be recognised that the Bribery Act 2010 be refreshed and rolled out.
these systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
On behalf of the Committee External auditors Mark Pain To maintain the independence of the external auditors, Audit & Risk Committee Chairman the Board has determined a policy detailing what non-audit 31 October 2011 services can be provided by the Companys external auditors.
Under this policy, work of a consultancy nature is not offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benefits to the Company.
The total value of work carried out by the Companys auditor for non-audit services, without specific Committee approval, cannot exceed the agreed audit fee for the relevant financial year of the Company.
During the period no non-audit fees were paid to the external auditors.
One of the primary purposes of the Committee is to make a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors.
During the period the Committee approved the appointment of KPMG Audit plc as the first auditors of the Company, having reviewed their independence and objectivity, and recommended to the Board that the auditors be re-appointed and agreed their fees.
38 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
