Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued Spirit Growth Value Plan SGVP A specific long term incentive plan was approved by the Punch remuneration committee in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 to facilitate the recruitment and retention of Mike Tye and transferred across to Spirit with Mike Tye upon demerger.
The SGVP was intended to align the performance of the Managed business and the remuneration of Mike Tye to assist in driving performance of the Managed business over the three years from 2008.
The SGVP required a hurdle growth rate of 6% compound for the award to vest.
Following demerger a formal valuation was carried out and the required growth rate was not achieved.
Accordingly the Committee determined that no award or payments should vest.
Dilution In accordance with shareholder guidelines, the Committee applies a limit on the amount of shares that can be issued to satisfy all of its employee share plan awards of 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten year period.
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements.
At demerger, shareholder approval was obtained to equitably divide Punchs historic dilution between Punch and Spirit based upon whether holders of awards were to be employed by Punch or Spirit post demerger.
Accordingly, the Companys current dilution position is as follows: Limit Current dilution level 10% in ten years 1.45% 5% in ten years 1.45% Shareholding requirement The Committee requires that all Executive Directors who participate in the Companys LTIP satisfy a minimum shareholding requirement within five years of appointment to the Board.
Targets are set to encourage Executive Directors to retain shares received from share incentive schemes.
The table below shows the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors, and their current personal shareholding.
Shareholding Current requirement shareholding % of To be % of base Name Position base salary achieved by salary Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer 150% August 2015 29% Mike Tye Deputy Chief Executive Officer 150% August 2013 34% The shareholding requirement for the permanent position of Finance Director is 100% of salary and this will apply to Paddy Gallagher when he joins.
This is to be achieved by November 2016.
These guidelines do not apply to interim roles.
All employee share arrangements The Group introduced an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP at demerger with the intention of operating the arrangement from 2011 12 onwards.
Directors contracts The policy on termination is that the Group does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations.
In addition, Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.
The Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure.
None of the Executive Directors contracts provides for liquidated damages.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Executive Directors contracts which provide for longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company.
Further, there are no special provisions providing for additional compensation on an Executive Directors cessation of employment with the Group.
Potential payment Executive Company Unexpired term of on change of Directors notice period Contract date contract months Potential termination payment control liquidation 1 Ian Dyson 12 months 5 May 2010 Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits Nil 1 Mike Tye 12 months 26 June 2008 Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits Nil 1 Russell Margerrison 3 months 8 June 2011 Rolling contract 3 months salary and benefits Nil 1 Paddy Gallagher 12 months 7 November 2011 Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits Nil 1 Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director.
42 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
