spirent communications plc annual report 2011 eco-efficiency.
The main aim of Spirents Environmental Policy Corporate social responsibility continued is to comply with all applicable environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
To achieve these goals the Group strives to integrate sound environmental management into its business strategies and continually improve environmental performance for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
Health and safety The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board The full policy can be found at www.
com in the About Us to have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the section under Corporate Governance.
No major health and safety issues were reported by the Chief Financial Officer to the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
The Groups main environmental impact is due predominantly to the effects produced by offices housing employees, internal IT systems The health and safety risk profile of the Group improved slightly again and travel.
All business units continue to take positive steps to reduce in 2011 as further Group manufacturing, particularly in the Systems energy consumption, such as better space utilisation, more efficient division, moved to an outsourcing model and this trend is expected to running of equipment and machinery, and sensor controlled continue in 2012.
The main risks of the Group continue to be based equipment.
During 2011 the Group further reduced the square around final test and assembly of products and working environment feet used as follows: issues such as ergonomics and Repetitive Strain Injury.
The Group 2011 2010 continued to have very low accident rates in 2011 and no incidents required any hospitalisation.
Square feet used 547,000 634,000 Percentage reduction % 13.7 9.4 The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the management of health and safety on local management who are supported by local external advisers where necessary.
It is the Having introduced video conferencing into the Group in 2010, we invested further in 2011, increasing the number of sites covered Groups policy that each business unit should have a senior individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business unit and the quality of the user experience.
Spirent is confident that video conferencing has reduced travel across the Group but it is difficult conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well as the Group Policy.
An annual questionnaire on health and safety to quantify the benefit definitively.
Where possible, business units monitor energy consumption, water consumption and waste performance is completed by all our business units and any issues are addressed and resolved.
Independent external reviews of the production.
Environmental waste management in the Group continues to improve with most business units operating waste minimisation Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually at selected business units.
Regular designated health and safety schemes mainly focusing on increased recycling.
One of our UK businesses is ISO-14001 registered.
awareness training programmes are also carried out.
The vast majority of our products continue to be manufactured by Spirent recognises the importance that health and safety, as with other corporate responsibilities, is managed successfully throughout all outside contract manufacturers and we check the environmental policies of these suppliers through audits and surveys.
Spirents levels of the organisation.
Successful health and safety management contributes to Spirents overall success by preserving and developing largest contract manufacturer, responsible for 60 per cent of our contract manufacturing services, is not only ISO-14001 certified, staff and physical resources, thereby reducing costs and liabilities and is an expression of its corporate responsibility.
but also has an extensive CO reduction programme.
The table below 2 shows the CO reduction performance of our largest contract 2 Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety manufacturer in the last two years for which data is available.
performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing by 2010 2009 encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
Regulatory requirements and the outline of care form the basis upon C0 emission reduction kilogrammes 1.2 million 2.1 million 2 which Spirents commitment is achieved.
By realistic planning, review and development, Spirent continues to achieve a successful health and Spirent also targets improvements in order fulfilment logistics to safety management programme and appropriate resources are made reduce air freight and corresponding reductions in carbon emissions.
Orders for customers in APAC and EMEA regions directly fulfilled from our key contract manufacturer in Asia increased as follows: Environmental The Groups Environmental Policy applies to the Company and all 2011 2010 its subsidiaries worldwide.
The Group is committed to the concepts Freight shipped direct kilogrammes 53,500 51,000 of pollution prevention, minimising environmental impacts and 34
