spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Corporate social responsibility statement Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts its business and we are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure that we address all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR with a fundamental The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders, recognising that acting responsibly and sustainably creates value.
all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirents CSR strategy covers our accountability to all of our Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal stakeholders, this includes striving for the highest ethical standards principles: of business practice: how we support, develop and reward our our policy is to operate within applicable laws: employees: how we minimise our impact on the environment: and discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: how we support and engage in the communities in which we operate.
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: Ethics conflicts of interest must be avoided: Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these and standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in other stakeholders.
During 2011, Spirents employees were again confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
clearly reminded of the standards expected of them by the regular Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups communication and explanation of Spirents Vision, Mission and internal control process.
The Bribery Act 2010 came into force in July 2011.
It amended and Employees reformed the UK criminal law and provides a modern legal framework Spirent is its employees.
To sustain our competitive advantage, the to combat bribery in the United Kingdom and internationally.
Spirent is Group maintains an environment where all employees can develop committed to promoting an ethical business culture and has zero to their fullest potential, have the opportunity to give back to their tolerance for all forms of bribery and corruption.
Spirent is compliant communities, and advance their careers.
Spirent employees come from with the Bribery Act 2010, has reviewed all relevant systems and a variety of diverse backgrounds and bring with them a broad range of controls and trained staff to promote the successful prevention and skills and experiences from engineering to sales to supply chain as detection of all forms of bribery and corruption.
This policy applies well as business functions such as finance, human resources, and to Spirents subsidiaries and business partners.
By the end of 2011, we employed more than 1,500 people in over 25 locations in 12 countries.
The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available on our website at www.
Our Ethics To sustain our competitive advantage and bring together this Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is culturally diverse group of employees, Spirent has built a global conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and culture based on four values being creative, competitive, customer sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees focused and collaborative.
These values form the foundation of and operations worldwide.
Spirents ability to inspire innovation and enrich the lives of millions of people around the world.
32 overview business review governance financial statements By encouraging and rewarding innovative thought and action by our Spirent employees from Mainland China, employees across the globe, we inspire innovation within Spirent, Hong Kong, India and our industry and our customers.
To accomplish this, Spirent employees the US took part in the have a number of career paths and internal recognition programmes Beijing Marathon in for both technical and non-technical staff.
These development October 2011. opportunities are structured to align with our organisational objectives and to help employees in furthering their career aspirations.
For example, we have implemented a technical career ladder across the global engineering organisation to build our technical expertise and provide future career opportunities.
Internal transfers and job rotations greatly benefit the career development of our engineering team.
As a result of these activities and others, over 10 per cent of employees received a promotion in 2011.
At Spirent we recognise the importance of two-way communication.
Our employees opinions matter to us.
In December 2011, employees Employees are provided with numerous learning and development were asked for their views on a wide range of issues.
Based on the feedback, we will develop specific action plans to increase the opportunities to fulfil their potential.
Our US employees enjoy a tax free tuition reimbursement benefit for classes taken towards college level engagement of our employees and foster a stronger organisational culture.
In addition, informal meetings between many of Spirents degrees such as a Master of Business Administration or Master of Science in Electrical Engineering.
A wide variety of courses and training executives and small groups of employees continue to be held on a regular basis, with the aim of sharing perspectives among a broad opportunities are also available to employees globally to enhance their skills.
In New Jersey, for example, Spirent receives training grants that cross section of our team members.
Other tools aimed at facilitating two-way communication include regular all employee meetings with allow employees to take onsite skill training or attend classes at a local community college in software and other applicable subjects.
In China, our CEO and other executives, employee focus group meetings and the continued expansion of our employee intranet.
our employees are provided with problem solving, decision making, leading innovation, effective cooperation, English education and The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all communication skills training and workshops.
In order to further enhance the development opportunities for our employees at Spirent, existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual we employed a Talent Development and Learning Manager in 2011. orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all Leadership and management development programmes are regularly reviewed and updated as the competition for talent increases and reasonable steps to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
the leadership needs of our business grow.
Spirent has an online performance management tool and each employee has an annual We encourage diversity and opportunity, which is reinforced through personal appraisal and a mid-year review.
Each individuals goals are set to align with Company strategies and objectives.
Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several reward and recognition programmes.
One way we reward and recognise excellence is through our Global Recognition Average number of employees by geographic location Programme, which provides Spot, Excellence and Executive Awards.
These awards are one-time cash incentives as recognition for exemplary contributions that demonstrate one or more of our key 1 values.
Spirent also provides project based incentives to recognise and 3 1 North America 59% reward employees for extraordinary work that results in significant over achievement of critical projects.
Spirents Patent Award programme 2 Europe 23% rewards employees for being innovative, while protecting the 3 Asia 18% Companys investment and intellectual rights and property.
2 Spirent believes in sharing its success with its employees, with all employees participating in some form of variable compensation tied to the achievement of key goals such as revenue, growth and profitability: Growth Sharing Plan for individual contributors through managers: Sales Commission Plan for sales employees: and Management Incentive Plan for senior managers and above.
