spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Corporate social responsibility statement Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts its business and we are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure that we address all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR with a fundamental The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders, recognising that acting responsibly and sustainably creates value.
all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirents CSR strategy covers our accountability to all of our Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal stakeholders, this includes striving for the highest ethical standards principles: of business practice: how we support, develop and reward our our policy is to operate within applicable laws: employees: how we minimise our impact on the environment: and discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: how we support and engage in the communities in which we operate.
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: Ethics conflicts of interest must be avoided: Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these and standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in other stakeholders.
During 2011, Spirents employees were again confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
clearly reminded of the standards expected of them by the regular Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups communication and explanation of Spirents Vision, Mission and internal control process.
The Bribery Act 2010 came into force in July 2011.
It amended and Employees reformed the UK criminal law and provides a modern legal framework Spirent is its employees.
To sustain our competitive advantage, the to combat bribery in the United Kingdom and internationally.
Spirent is Group maintains an environment where all employees can develop committed to promoting an ethical business culture and has zero to their fullest potential, have the opportunity to give back to their tolerance for all forms of bribery and corruption.
Spirent is compliant communities, and advance their careers.
Spirent employees come from with the Bribery Act 2010, has reviewed all relevant systems and a variety of diverse backgrounds and bring with them a broad range of controls and trained staff to promote the successful prevention and skills and experiences from engineering to sales to supply chain as detection of all forms of bribery and corruption.
This policy applies well as business functions such as finance, human resources, and to Spirents subsidiaries and business partners.
By the end of 2011, we employed more than 1,500 people in over 25 locations in 12 countries.
The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available on our website at www.
Our Ethics To sustain our competitive advantage and bring together this Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is culturally diverse group of employees, Spirent has built a global conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and culture based on four values being creative, competitive, customer sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees focused and collaborative.
These values form the foundation of and operations worldwide.
Spirents ability to inspire innovation and enrich the lives of millions of people around the world.
