Business review Corporate social responsibility From our approach to the recruitment, This year, we developed a range of As a leading training and retention of the highest low calorie dishes within our brands and calibre people, to the responsible continue to gain calorific information pub company, operation of our pubs in the interests for all products.
We promote healthy of our guests, employees and the local alternatives which include the option we strive to community: to the maintenance of for guests to swap chips for salad or appropriate working relationships with jacket potatoes.
place corporate suppliers and Government agencies, we are changing the way we do Product quality is a high priority for us responsibility business to ensure that we behave in and our suppliers and we constantly the right way with all our stakeholders.
monitor our products to ensure at the core that they satisfy all current food Responsible retailing manufacturing legislation and of everything environmental health requirements.
Responsible retailing is not solely about providing a safe and controlled we do.
Over the past year we have increased environment in which to sell alcohol, with the majority of our pubs also our focus on driving food quality and the speed of delivery to our guests by serving food we have to make sure that we promote a balanced and healthy introducing an initiative called Quality with Pace.
Quality with Pace, led by our diet too.
food team, has made great progress in changing the culture and behaviour We are committed to working with the Department of Health DoH to support of the business.
Our focus on food quality and delivery, our menus and campaigns to reduce levels of salt and artificial trans fat from our meals and investment training has also been improved and we now have a structured will continue to work with them on future pledges.
approach to driving the awareness and importance of food.
Hats off to the Royal Oak Our pubs raise thousands of pounds every year for charitable causes.
The team at The Royal Oak, Ambleside, raised an impressive 1,100 by hosting a Royal Ascot Ladies Day at the pub.
General manager Lorraine Smith proudly presented a cheque to the team at Furness General Hospital in July 2011.
com 18 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011
