Scottish and Southern Energy 64 Annual Report 2011 Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee to help employees be in good shape for work.
kk Policy: defining how things get done: SSEs policy is to deal with all sickness kk People: helping employees to act safely: absence in a sympathetic and constructive kk Processes: managing risks and way, helping people make a speedy return to delivering safe systems of work: health and to work by seeking and acting on kk Plant: maintaining the integrity of plant medical advice.
During 2010 11, the average and equipment: and number of days of absence from work was kk Performance: managing and improving 5.38, compared with 5.31 in the previous year.
Environmental management safety performance SSEs main environmental impact is Colin Hood By SSEs standards, safety performance generally regarded as emissions of carbon Safety, Health and Environment during 2010 11 was mixed, with progress in dioxide from electricity generation see Advisory Committee Chairman some areas being offset by setbacks in others page 33.
The CEMARS Certified Emissions previous years performance in brackets : Measurement and Reduction Scheme standard adopted by Achilles is the worlds kk the Lost Time Reportable Injury Rate first  greenhouse was 0.04 0.03 : gas certification scheme to ISO14065 and, in kk the Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR, members and meetings March 2011, SSE was notified by Achilles that covering lost-time, reportable and Attendance Membership at meetings it had again received the CEMARS standard.
medical treatment injuries, was 0.12 per 100,000 hours worked 0.14 : Colin Hood Committee Chairman 3 3 Many of the Companys day-to-day operations kk the total number of working days lost Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 take place in environmentally sensitive areas.
as a result of injuries occurring in The priority is to make sure that the five Ps 2010 11 was 171 73 : and The membership also comprises certain apply to environmental management and that kk the number of dangerous or potentially senior executives, namely: negative impacts such as pollution to the dangerous road traffic accidents involving local environment are prevented.
SSEs duty SSE employees driving Company vehicles kk the Managing Director, Group Services: to protect the environment starts when work was 0.31 per 100 vehicles 0.34. kk the Managing Director, Generation: and is first planned at a site and continues until kk the Group Safety, Health and SSE clears up that site and leaves it.
The key By many other standards, however, this was Environment Manager.
target in any single year is to ensure there a good safety performance.
For example, the are no environmental incidents which result number of working days lost was the second The Chief Executive also attends when in SSE receiving an enforcement notice from lowest in the last six years.
The Assistant Company Secretary an environment regulator such as the however, is injury-free working and until is Secretary to the Committee.
There were no such that is achieved and maintained the incidents during 2010 11.
Good environmental Company will not be satisfied.
The Safety, Health and Environment stewardship involves on-site energy efficiency Advisory Committee has three main and management of waste, and SSE has contractors safety performance responsibilities.
They are to: specialist managers responsible for these The safety of contractors working on SSE areas.
A key goal is to minimise waste and projects and sites is fundamentally the kk ensure that SSEs health and safety unnecessary use of natural resources by responsibility of their employers, but SSE policy and environment policy re-using and recycling materials.
During works closely with its contractors in increasing statements are adhered to: 2010 11, 4,639 tonnes of waste were sent their safety standards.
For this group, the kk set safety, health and environmental from SSEs offices and depots for disposal TRIR was 0.12 per 100,000 hours worked, targets for improved performance: and at landfill sites, a fall of over 20%.
compared with 0.31 in the previous year.
kk monitor safety, health and environmental performance in SSE.
priorities for 2011 12 This was, however, overshadowed by the loss The priorities are to: of the lives of two employees of contractors In exercising these responsibilities, the to SSE.
Loss of life in such circumstances Committee focuses on SSEs Safety and has a devastating effect on families, friends kk support progress towards SSEs Sustainability values: and colleagues and is the starkest possible ultimate goal of injury-free working: reminder of why safety is, and must be, kk promote the health and well-being kk we believe all accidents are preventable, the top priority for SSE and its contractors.
of people working for SSE: and so we do everything safely and Amongst the safety-related issues on kk ensure effective environmental responsibly, or not at all: and which SSE is working with contractors, the management throughout SSE.
kk we operate ethically, taking the longconstruction and operation of wind farms term view to achieve growth while offshore is particularly important because The progress towards injury-free working will safeguarding the environment.
they present new challenges and risks.
SSE be supported by three specific initiatives on: is actively working with a group of other policy leading developers to set and implement kk safe working offshore: People in SSE have many different working the best possible safe working procedures.
kk all employees safety-related behaviours: environments from full-scale industrial and processes to offices.
One thing is the Health promotion kk management of leading safety indicators.
same, however: everyones role in achieving SSEs Health and Well-being Action Plan safe working conditions.
SSEs Safety provides the basis for workplace health Colin Hood Management System focuses on five Ps: programmes and initiatives, all designed Chairman
