Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report The Committee reviews the Groups analysis of health, safety and 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and environmental risks and its strategies to address those risks.
The Committee Environmental Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key summarised in section 6.7. performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee operating division.
Training is provided to the Committee on health, safety are available on the Groups website at http: www.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration scg csr corpgov committees health07.
pdf Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal objectives.
The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is 9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel and Environmental Committee health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
The Committee considers health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants, where required.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Helen Mahy Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee also receives reports from the Groups Environmental Strategy 29 June 2011 Group, which comprises a number of managers and is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Groups environmental strategy.
The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe health, safety and environmental management in practice.
Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to time, such as the East Midlands Trains Board Safety Sub Committee.
