CorPorAtE rEsPoNsiBility rEPort for the year ended 27 November 2011 Introduction people: job seekers: community As we continue to grow our global business organisations: and our employees.
and expand into new markets, we recognise We have continued to concentrate on the need for a more strategic approach to three strands: Community, Environment Corporate Responsibility CR, which starts and Workplace.
from the concept of corporate citizenship.
That is, looking at the core purpose of our CR Principles business and the knowledge and skills We are evolving our CR strategy around of our people, in balance with social and the following guiding principles: environmental needs to which we are well Core skills and expertise Projects Russell Clements placed to respond.
Chief Executive Officer that utilise the best of SThree and At a time when world economies are provide opportunities for learning: struggling and unemployment levels are Glocal Global vision with local rising, our role and expertise in staffing delivery: solutions is becoming ever more critical.
Through recognising talent and matching Employee engagement Initiatives skilled individuals to unique business that support engagement and team needs, we support economic sustainability building: and growth.
This knowledge provides Partnership approach Working a valuable proposition to our clients, closely with community organisations candidates and to those taking part in our to respond to real needs and engaging community engagement projects.
with clients and suppliers to leverage As a professional services company impact: focused on specialist recruitment Supports the values Projects that everything we do is about people.
This too reinforce the SThree values of: Respect: lies at the heart of our approach to CR.
Energy: Rapport: and Reward: and Our CR journey Represents SThree A CR This year we embarked on a transition programme that fits the business to build a more business-focused and and of which employees and other strategic CR programme, and are stakeholders can be proud.
committed to defining KPIs and targets in2012.
CR highlights We are proud of our achievements in 2011, We are proud of past achievements in which include the following: fundraising, and this will continue as we progress our efforts on skills-based Fundraising Over 203,000 donated volunteering.
By sharing core skills through during our three year partnership with volunteering we can increase social SOS Childrens Villages, which has value while providing opportunities for gone to projects in Africa, China, Haiti, our employees that respond to emerging India and Syria, with nearly 90,000 business needs.
For example, business donated to SOS Children this year: benefits such as employee engagement, cross team working, leadership and skills Volunteering 65 employees, roughly development.
3% of our workforce, took part in pilot projects for our new formal skillsGlobal CR vision and strands based employer supported scheme, Our vision for CR is aligned to the providing approximately 320 hours of Companys organising thought of support, impacting 193 beneficiaries.
We continued to work closely with Through CR we recognise and develop Time & Talents for Westminster and the talent of four core groups: young commenced new relationships with SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy REPORT Community Building on our previous work with young people who are NEET not in education, employment or training, in 2011 we made Employability and Raising Aspiration a central focus for our community engagement.
We believe this fits the so called sweet spot in terms of what we can best offer as a business in responding to priority community needs.
Due to a high level of employee-led initiative, projects across the business have not always been fully captured through a central reporting system.
Moving forward we are looking to better coordinate activities and replicate the best projects across our global offices.
150 people City Action and East London Business attended a Environment Alliance ELBA to support our sports event and We are increasingly aware of the role that volunteering in London: family day in the business must play in the global challenge Six University scholarships funded, four Netherlands with of climate change and are committed to at the University of Birmingham and two sweepstake raffle our part in that process.
at the University of Manchester: This year we commissioned Global Action 37 out of 43 offices in the UK, Ireland Plan, the UKs leading environmental and Europe recycling: behaviour change charity, to measure our UK carbon footprint and their analysis 94% of employees said they are proud showed that this was 2,873 tonnes of to work for SThree and 90% would CO2, between December 2009 and the recommend SThree as a great place to end of November 2010, including office work: utilities, paper use and company related Member of FTSE4Good for over three car travel regrettably we could not include years since September 2008. air and train travel, or waste as insufficient data was available for the period.
CO2 emissions for our UK utilities have reduced slightly over the last three years, as follows.
UK utilities 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 Footprint gas, electricity & water 2,348 2,309 2,293 We understand that in order to improve to offset half of the footprint volume, future carbon footprint exercises and re-investing the other half we would develop our environmental management have spent on offsetting, on employee we need to first improve data collection engagement initiatives that will help us procedures and this will be key focus area reduce the intensity of our carbon footprint for us in 2012. in the future.
For the last few years we have offset our To offset half the footprint, we invested UK carbon footprint.
This year we decided in ClimateCares Mixed Portfolio which 50 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy REPORT Recruitment Applicants to our business are always assessed fairly and treated with respect at every stage of the hiring process: Training & development We offer appropriate training to all our people in order to help them complete their daily work to the best of their abilities: Diversity & equality We ensure that all areas of our business embrace diversity and offer fairness and equality of opportunity in every respect: Talent We want to harness the full potential of all our people and we actively encourage and support those who demonstrate the right performance Students from includes a range of projects such as levels, behave in accordance with Lambeth Academy Gold Standard efficient cooking stoves in our values and who have the talent to had A Capital Ghana and Uganda.
progress: Experience at We continue to investigate ways to make Real Staffing, Reward We recognise service, effort our operations more resource efficient Soho, as part of a and achievement and reward personal and have initiated a programme to ensure day organised by success: and that our IT usage is maximised, using Career Academies low power consumption PCs, server Engagement & communications UK virtualisation and video conferencing in all talking to our people and listening to new offices.
In addition our UK car fleet what they have got to say is a priority.
has decreased its average CO emissions 2 We actively seek opportunities to from 184 g km to 157 g km, with a cap respond to their feedback.
This is how also imposed on the overseas car fleet.
Since 2006 we have recycled UK Governance and ethics company mobile phones to benefit Aspire In 2012 we plan to initiate a programme supporting those with a spinal injury.
of ESG training throughout the business.
We also ran a Recycling Countdown of Further information on governance offices going bin free, with 37 recycling matters is provided within the Chairmans facilities set up across the UK, Ireland and Statement and Corporate Governance Europe to recycle paper, cans, glass and report sections earlier.
plastic as well as printer cartridges.
Only a Diversity, talent and leadership few offices remain to go bin free in 2012.
This year we established Identity, an Workplace initiative to increase awareness of the We recognise the value and importance importance of women in leadership roles of our employees.
Managing talent is an and also improve organisational capability.
absolute priority for us this is the very An internal online community has been essence of what we do, and the promise developed to address topics such as we make.
We are committed to the Natasha Clarkework-life balance, career progression, following and continually strive to create a Tidey, Director Of and role models.
We have incorporated workplace in which the following are our Strategic Capability, programmes and modules into team identifying characteristics: Executive champion leader and management training to for Identity support gender diversity capability, and SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy REPORT have run a series of workshops and set up embedded into business processes, a network of Identity champions across starting with the appraisal and promotion the business.
processes, with talent acquisition and the on-boarding of new employees to follow A key objective of the business is to in 2012. attract, develop and retain talent to achieve our organic growth strategy.
Our Rapport survey this year showed that To support this, the Learning & 96% of employees feel that the SThree Development department designed values are relevant to them.
a management programme called Employee engagement Momentum with a focus on developing A key priority for 2011 was to build upon people, which included the latest tools Values Artwork our prior year launch of the SThree to assist managers in supporting and Rapport survey, with the response rate developing their teams in real time.
this year being 87%, up from the previous This has had a positive impact across years 82%.
The results of the survey the business and enabled managers to were also highly encouraging: 79% of increase engagement and performance respondents felt that their managers withinteams.
had effectively responded to last years During the year we increased our feedback, whilst 94% of respondents said commitment to leadership development, that they were proud to work for SThree and ran a series of management and 90% would recommend SThree as a development centres, attended by over 80 great place to work.
In response to In 2012, we have tasked ourselves with listening to our people and their ideas on creating team and country action plans how they wanted to improve their working to build upon the strengths and areas practices, we also implemented a learning for improvement identified in the survey strategy to support the application of both results.
We believe that this will enable us formal courses and flexible learning during to focus on aspects that will have the most day to day business life.
impact in our various locations.
At a Group We continue to partner with an external level, career development is a key priority business school where an initial cohort for SThree to ensure we build and retain of 11 Directors attended a Business a strong talent pipeline.
An example of us Leaders programme.
An element of the responding to this priority in 2011 was the programme provided attendees with set up of My Career Portal, a platform the opportunity to work on Executive which has given people control over their sponsored projects, so as to give a internal profile and development plans and contextual platform for their development.
visibility on new opportunities globally.
Values: Respect: Energy: Rapport: & Wellbeing and health & safety Reward Health & safety training was provided Building on our earlier work, continued as an e-learning interactive session for marketing took place to raise awareness employees, with over 180 UK employees of the values, their importance and the now having completed the training.
The campaign We also have a dedicated benefits consisted of new office design and specialist and look for ways to improve the artwork, values newsletters, values and SThree employee experience, for example culture book for all employees, intranet our cycle scheme, whereby employees articles and email campaigns.
can receive the cost of purchasing a Employees worldwide have attended bicycle.
To date 65 people have joined workshops, with the values being 52 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy REPORT the scheme, with 30 new participants thisyear.
Outlook We will continue to work towards a more KPI and target driven strategy, which will build on the above.
Russell Clements Chief Executive Officer 27 January 2012 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 53
