Developing People, Developing the Business Stobart Groups people are the foundation of our success The Right Tools for the job and we want to ensure that they have every opportunity to In March 2011, Eddie Stobart opened its Training Academy grow and develop with the business.
The Group works with at Widnes in Cheshire.
The new facility is dedicated to the its own trainers, as well as external providers to ensure every training and recruitment of drivers within the business, and training course is tailored to meet the precise needs of the will also become the central facility for all other staff training business: allowing employees to apply learning directly back within the organisation.
into the workplace, and maximising benefits to both the The purpose-built facility includes all the equipment and business and its employees.
resources required to train first class, professional LGV drivers.
It features an indoor practical training area for Management Development Programme hands-on experience on the actual units, trailers and in-cab In 2010, the Stobart Group Management Development technology used by the Group.
Programme MDP was launched to identify, nurture and The site also has three multi-purpose training rooms for develop emerging leaders within the Group.
This new employee development courses.
One room is also a fully learning and development programme forms a critical step in equipped IT training room built to provide Microsoft and PC driving the Groups business activities forward, whilst training, as well as system training on the Groups advanced 25 ensuring Stobart Group remains market leader in an in-house planning software.
Eddie Stobarts driver training team comprises 20 trainers and The MDP is a bespoke programme that has been designed to support staff.
This experienced team is dedicated to delivering support the succession planning requirements of the business.
the statutory requirements of the Driver Certificate in The Programme comprises the following elements: Professional Competence CPC, as well as DSA registered LGV instruction and NVQs.
Formal Training Courses including strategic leadership, Every new Eddie Stobart driver must complete an intensive finance for non-financial managers and managing and two day induction course to ensure they measure-up to improving performance.
The courses and their delivery are the exceptionally high standards that are demanded of a tailored to meet the needs of the individual and also the Stobart driver.
Every driver is also issued with a personal Driver business, this allows the delegate to readily apply the Manual and a comprehensive pack containing essential learning back into real-life work situations.
This innovative, publication is packed with vital Job Placements enable the delegates to experience and data that ranges from core Safe Systems of Work and understand a different division within the Group instead of customer location maps through to notes on clients special requirements, EU driving hours and even customs allowances.
just their individual division and day to day role.
The Company is ahead of schedule in delivering its own Projects are work-based and structured to provide range of accredited courses, ensuring drivers are in full learning opportunities for the delegate and also to be a compliance with the demands of the Driver CPC.
The CPC benefit to the business.
programme is aimed at ensuring LGV and PCV drivers are Mentor support with a Senior Manager or Director trained to a high standard in a variety of complementary within the business.
areas such as Health and Safety, Customer Care, EU hours The Group has worked in partnership with Coventry University and Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED.
Following successful To-date over 4,500 CPC days have been completed within completion of the programme and corresponding assignments, the business, meaning 98.5% of Stobart drivers have delegates will receive 90 University CAT points, along with a completed their first year of CPC training: with 62% having Stobart certification.
already completed their second year.
In addition to the MDP Programme, Stobart Groups recognise other talent within the business and creates Positive about Young People bespoke training programmes.
These include courses This year will see the further development of the Eddie Stobart in Time Management, Negotiation Skills and Project Apprenticeship scheme.
Management, with some employees completing NVQ Level 3 in Leadership and Management alongside these sessions.
The aim of this innovative scheme is to encourage more young people to join the industry, younger.
The programme takes inductees through a tailored 26 week training programme: achieving NVQs at Levels 2 and 3 and gaining key skills and technical knowledge in the process.
The Group supports young people in a range of Apprenticeship programmes, these include Traffic Office and Driving Goods Vehicles and also delivers NVQs in Customer Service, Business Administration and ITQ.
Developing People, Developing the Business I joined Eddie Stobart directly from sixth form college.
Im afraid to say that my formal education simply hadnt prepared me for business, and so most of my learning has been on the job...
I have no doubt I have progressed quicker, and achieved more, as a result of the training I have received with the Company.
This is why today, as someone who has risen through the ranks to become Managing Director of the FMCG Business Unit, I am SO supportive of the Management Development Programme myself.
Dave Pickering, Managing Director, FMCG Business Unit 26 Graduate Recruitment and Development these home grown Managers and Directors have gained an in-depth knowledge of the business, as well as building The introduction of a Graduate recruitment initiative is the the strong interpersonal relationships that are at the core of next step in the Groups wider succession planning strategy: Stobarts tight-knit, coherent and highly successful team.
with the aim of giving Graduates the opportunity to build Stobart Group offers comprehensive training for all the foundations of a long-term career in a successful, wellemployees.
Graduate recruits attend the Companys First established business.
Line Managers Programme FLM which includes a series of The Groups activities within Road, Rail, Sea and Air, and a courses and group training sessions that give them essential wide range of departments: including Planning, Operations, skills in areas like time management and leadership.
Warehouse, Finance, Human Resources, Business Development and IT: offer numerous interesting career paths with excellent Specialist Training potential for personal development.
Graduate positions are being made available across many of these areas.
Across the business, there is a constant requirement to deliver both legislative and compliance training.
This obligation is Career Development particularly centred on the specialist requirements of the Rail, Air and Ports divisions.
Stobart Group places great value on its employees, and has Wherever possible, this training is delivered in-house: ensuring a long and well-established career development programme the technical knowledge that is a statutory requirement that is actively applied at every level within the business.
is delivered in conjunction with the high standards of Traditionally much of the Groups own management team professionalism that are demanded of every Stobart employee.
has risen from within the ranks, recognising the potential of people who have proven their worth.
