Corporate and Social Responsibility As one of the logistics sectors leading providers, Stobart Group takes its corporate and social responsibilities seriously.
The Group has been responsible for numerous positive environmental initiatives and is widely active in the communities associated with its facilities.
Environmental Responsibility Enviro-Trailers The Groups total direct emissions of CO2 for the year In March 2011 Department for Transport launched a public ended 28 February 2011 were 261,836,973kg.
consultation on high volume semi-trailers and the potential The CO2 per loaded mile was 1.87kg for the year ended for increasing allowable trailer lengths.
This represents a 1.6% reduction long lobbied Government about the advantages of compared to the prior year.
extending trailer lengths, and has met with Ministers on numerous occasions to put their case.
As a launch member of the Freight Transport Associations 23 Logistics Carbon Reduction Scheme LCRS, Stobart Group Many loads tend to bulk out before they weigh out: filling is fully committed to reducing carbon emissions the trailers maximum capacity before its reached its maximum throughout all our operations.
According to the LCRS Annual Report, at any one time The increased capacity resulting from extending trailers offers around 83% of Stobart vehicles on the road are carrying a significant environmental benefits: easing traffic congestion, load, compared to an industry average of 71.7 percent.
This reducing pollution and CO emissions, and delivering 2 significantly better efficiency makes journeys more important cost efficiency gains to logistics businesses and economical and environmental responsible.
The stringent vehicle replacement programme ensures trucks benefit from the latest technological advances.
Health and Wellbeing Currently circa 89 percent of the Stobart fleet complies The Stobart Group is committed to maintaining and with stringent Euro 4 or Euro 5 pollution regulations: it is continuously improving standards of occupational health projected this will rise to over 95 percent by the 2011- and safety for all its employees 2012 financial year end.
Projects undertaken this year include the introduction of health An Eddie Stobart operated 18-tonne GVW Volvo dieseland nutritional advice in all the Groups on-site restaurants, electric hybrid vehicle will commence delivery operations and an initiative encouraging all staff to undergo a healthy for a major FMCG customer early in the summer of 2011. lifestyle check.
Resulting reductions in carbon emissions are expected to range between 10 percent and 15 percent.
Health and Safety: Managing Risk Working in conjunction with Volvo Trucks and a major FMCG customer, Eddie Stobart is conducting field tests in Health and Safety remains a key performance indicator for progress using five factory-built 44 tonne GVW dual-fuel the business.
During the past year there has been an tractor units using a combination of Liquefied Natural Gas excellent safety performance record, with accident incident and Diesel.
Trials are showing that these vehicles are frequency rate at 0.47, reducing from 0.53 in 2010. reducing carbon emissions by up to 15 percent.
This figure shows a marked improvement in safety of 11%.
Stobarts Environmental transport offering is at the RIDDOR rates are arrived at by dividing the number of cutting-edge of the sourcing and distribution of biomass RIDDOR-recordable incidents in a year by the number of hours fuels: a key contributor towards meeting the UKs power worked x100,000.
Whilst the severe weather during December 2010 did lead to The upgrading of Stobart Airs London Southend Airport a rise in RIDDOR accidents, these incidents were mainly due will offer passengers a 20-minute shorter air journey from to ice and snow encountered by employees at third party mainland Europe compared to the other London airports sites, rather than at Stobart Group facilities.
Alongside the In the Groups ongoing drive to achieve and maintain industry increased convenience there will commensurate leading Health and Safety performance it has implemented a reductions in fuel use and carbon emissions.
Stop, Think, Act campaign throughout the business.
This Stobarts drivers have been inducted in the techniques of campaign aims to reduce the number of preventable Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving SAFED.
Applied in accidents and RIDDOR incidents incurred by employees of conjunction with the CANBUS in-cab monitoring system, Stobart Group.
The success of this campaign is clearly SAFED provides ongoing training and rewards for drivers illustrated by September 2010 where the RIDDOR incident who make a positive contribution towards improving rate involving Group employees at Stobart sites fell to ZERO.
safety, and cutting fuel use and engine wear: protecting our environment and reducing waste.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Corporate and Social Responsibility Stobart Groups Stop, Think, Act campaign is now Each year a comprehensive risk-based internal audit programme recognised as a benchmark across the industry, and has now is carried out by experienced auditors.
This stringent programme been adapted and implemented by many other leading reviews and establishes compliance levels, with over 300 businesses operating in the sector.
internal audits taking place throughout the Group annually.
The Group recognises that involving and engaging with its Business risk and compliance standards are constantly workforce at every level leads to the positive Health and measured and reviewed at Director level within each Safety culture that it aims to build on and develop.
Over the operational division, and Board level at least once a month.
past 12 months this approach has resulted in the This process encompasses use of a balanced score card that development, revision and enhancement of the Safe Systems includes economic, customer and brand, process and people of Work SSW that affect every Eddie Stobart driver during perspectives: ensuring that management have the reliable their working day.
A comprehensive new Driver Handbook information with which to shape the future of the Group has been developed that includes all the core SSWs and is and make the vision a reality.
now being distributed during training days to all the Groups drivers.
An accompanying DVD has also been developed to Charitable Giving further reinforce and advertise the need for constant Stobart Group understands the importance of helping people adherence to safe working practices.
24 through charitable donations and contributions: both within Sites within the Group continue to demonstrate the highest the communities associated with its operations and nationally.
operational standards, with positive comments recently The senior management lead by example the CEO and received on the control and commitment to Health and Safety COO are both Directors of, and major financial contributors standards at the Groups 450,000 sq ft Daventry site.
These to, Carlisle Youth Zone.
This important new local initiative were relayed by the Local Authority after the completion of provides social opportunities for the young people of an Emergency Planning Exercise aimed at testing On-Site and Cumbria.
Andrew Tinkler and William Stobarts philanthropic Off-Site Plans through a major site fire simulation.
ethos is echoed throughout the Group, with many of Stobart Internal audits remain a key focus area for the Groups Health employees involved in volunteering: giving all-important time and Safety Department, with every operation receiving at least and energy to a range of good causes.
All sites are showing signs of continual Amongst the Groups charitable highlights during the past improvement, with compliance and areas of special focus year has been the sponsorship of Ronan Keatings annual showing an overall improvement.
Emeralds and Ivy Ball, which helped raise over 730,000 for Stobart Groups adopted charity of the year, Cancer Business Systems: Reducing Risk Research UK, as well as the Marie Keating Foundation.
The transport and logistics industry faces increasing challenges.
Stobart contributed over 150,000 to this event, equating Each year customers become ever-more engaged in Health, to a contribution of 1 for each mile covered by a special Safety, Environment and Quality whilst constantly driving to charity truck during the year.
In 2010 Stobart also sponsored further improve punctuality and pricing.
the Rock Ball which raises money for a Crohns Disease charity, and has contributed to numerous other good causes Stobart Groups business strategy is underpinned by its Brand, including Help for Heroes, Kidscape and Air Ambulance People, and Business Systems, it is the coherent development charities.
and improvement in all areas that will allow the business to achieve its vision.
In addition to its charitable work, Stobart Group continues its engagement with local communities through the sponsorship Extensive Business Management Systems including Policies, of key sporting organisations.
Stobart Group is one of the Procedures, and Continuity Plans : aimed at reducing risk longest continual sponsors in the English football league.
Its and ensuring legal, company and client requirements are backing of Carlisle United Football Club has helped the team consistently met and complied with: are documented win a national trophy this year and to continue its respected throughout the organisation, they encompass Health, youth development programme.
Stobart also sponsors the Safety, Environmental and Quality controls.
Widnes Vikings rugby team which has recently been granted Many of the Groups Business Management Systems have a Super League licence.
Finally Stobart Group has provided formal accreditations and certifications including ISO9001, support to the Professional Jockeys Association, enabling it ISO14001, OHSAS18001, EFSIS, and MHRA.
These systems to introduce a scheme to insure horse racing jockeys against ensure the Stobart Group maintains its accreditations, career-ending injury or illness.
protects its licensed drivers compliance, and reinforces the brand and company profits.
Stobart Gateway is the Groups internal web-based information hub.
It ensures that the business systems are available to every employee.
