44 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 11 Audit Committee Report Committee membership Steven Glew is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other Audit Committee members are Indira Thambiah and Ken McCall.
All of the Audit Committee members are Non-executive Directors and the Board considers them all to be independent.
As per the Combined Code, the Chairman has relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee will meet at least four times per year and further as necessary to fulfil its function effectively.
By invitation of the Chairman, the Group Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Divisional Finance Directors, Head of Business Assurance, the acting Head of Internal Audit outsourced with KPMG, other senior managers and the external auditors may also attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Group Finance Director attended all meetings during the year.
The role of Audit Committee Secretary is fulfilled by the Company Secretary.
At least once a year the Committee meet separately with the external auditors and the acting Head of Internal Audit without management present.
Committee activities The Audit Committee has met four times during the year and reports of these meetings were provided to the subsequent Board meetings.
The principal matters under consideration are set out as follows: Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed with management the Groups process, evaluation and assessment of its internal controls and management of risk including financial, operational, technical and compliance risks, focusing on effectively managing major risks to the Group.
The review covered all material controls as set out in C2.1 of the Code.
During the year, KPMG Internal Audit Services were appointed by the Audit Committee to develop and deliver an effective internal audit plan for the Group.
There is now a comprehensive Risk Register in place within the Group and an Internal Control framework.
These are used by the Executive Directors as a tool to assist with decision making.
Fraud and whistleblowing The Audit Committee has approved and discussed with management the Groups processes and policies for whistleblowing and for fraud and security.
A whistleblowing policy is now in place and the Audit Committee is satisfied that employees have the opportunity to raise concerns in confidence about possible fraudulent activity and any other concerns that arise within the organisation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation of such matters, including appropriate follow-up action.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the unaudited Preliminary Announcement and Annual Report and Financial Statements, the appropriateness and acceptability of accounting policies and practices, and compliance with financial reporting standards and requirements.
External audit The Audit Committee reviewed the audit strategy and the outcome and findings of the annual external audit.
It assessed the independence of the external auditors and concluded that  LLP were independent.
In addition, the Audit Committee approved the scope and fees for the external audit.
The Audit Committee confirmed that where  LLP provided non-audit services their objectivity was not compromised and that the policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work had been adhered to.
The Audit Committee has recommended the reappointment of  LLP for the next financial year.
