34 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 9 Directors Report The disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares was approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 197,686, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
This disapplication will be renewed at the Annual General Meeting in September 2011 in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 200,586 again, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover Directive are included elsewhere in the Directors Report, the corporate governance statement, the Directors Remuneration Report and the notes to the Group and Company financial statements.
There are no agreements in place between the Group and its employees or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Share buy backs At the Annual General Meeting in 2010, shareholders approved a resolution to grant the Directors authority to repurchase a maximum number of 7,907,455 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as shares become available.
During the reporting year to 1 May 2011, there were no purchases by the Company of its own shares.
It is intended to renew this authority from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in September 2011 in respect of 8,023,459 ordinary shares again, representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 1 May 2011.
Further details are set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Groups business activities and growth strategy, together with factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Group, are set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review and Group Finance Directors Review in sections 4 to 5 on pages 6 to 21.
The Directors have reviewed current performance forecasts, together with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary, that have been prepared in accordance with going concern and liquidity risk guidance for directors of UK companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2009.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to agree terms of payment when negotiating the terms of a transaction and to abide by those terms, provided that the Group is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At the year-end, the Group had creditor days of 93 2010: 85 days.
The Company has nil creditor days 2010: nil as the Company is not a trading entity.
Donations There was a charitable donation during the year to 1 May 2011 of 25,000 2010: nil.
There were no political donations.
Related party transactions Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 16.6 to the financial statements and in relation to the employment of Directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report in section 12 on pages 48 to 53, there is no material indebtedness owed to, or by the Company, or the Group, to any employee or any other person or entity considered to be a related party.
Employee practices The success of the Group is a direct result of the knowledge, skills, drive, passion and enthusiasm of its people.
From its earliest days, the culture of the Group has been to create and maintain an environment where individuals can flourish in order to fulfil their potential.
