Synergy Health plc 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility We have taken into account the needs of our stakeholders and Overview prioritised the key areas within our CSR programme listed below.
Synergy is expanding its engagement with issues of Community relationships Using our knowledge Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, recognising the Charitable partnerships and giving Educating others importance of managing day-to-day activities in a Employee fundraising Help to healthcare responsible way, being accountable for the impact of all operational activities on the environment and our local Community projects communities, and creating a working environment in which Workplace environment Environmental issues our colleagues can ourish.
CSR is a business approach Diversity at work Energy and carbon reduction that creates value by embracing opportunities and Employee training and development Transport pollution managing risks deriving from economic, environmental Health of employees Recycling and social developments whilst maintaining global Employee retention Materials competitiveness and brand reputation.
Health and safety Waste management Risk management Quality management We recently received a rating of 87 100 in the FTSE4good index, whichis designed to measure the performance of companies that We have also analysed our current performance to create a list of meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility standards.
objectives to meet the responsibilities of our business: In early 2011, we developed a Group CEO-led team to implement a Involving our business and employees in supporting the community CSR Programme, which consists of representatives from different Supporting healthcare related charities areas of our business.
To ensure the standards are cascaded effectively throughout our business, the plc and Senior Executive Using our knowledge and experience to interact at healthcare Boards are updated on progress within the programme on a relatedevents regularbasis.
Enhancing our internal communication methods, which will assist In the past year, a second team has worked on a project to link inimproving our business performance Synergys core values to its brand, with the objective of creating a Using employee engagement surveys to understand the areas of sustainable culture and leadership environment.
We chose our improvement to continue our successful employee relationships nameSynergy as an expression of the way we can work together withour colleagues, customers and other stakeholders.
We want to Continuing the improvement of our health and safety performance achieve improved business outcomes by working collaboratively, and Managing and minimising the waste and use of materials from itis important that we share common values as we expand globally.
ourservices Continuing to improve the efficiency of our energy use globally Employee success Winning the Greater China Business Award Synergy Health was announced as theproud winner of the Greater China Rising Star Award at the Greater China Achievement in International Trade Awards organised by the UK Trade Investment UKTI on Friday 4th February atthe LowryTheatre in Salford, UK.
The panel of judges praised Synergy Health, who have developed local partnerships with Chinese hospitals to helpthem comply with healthcare standards introduced bythe Chinese Ministry of Health in 2009.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 25 Talent management Training across the business Synergy continues to invest in its teamstoexpand and deepen the Groupstalent pool.
charitable activities such as donating funds for important An introduction from the Chief Executive healthcareequipment.
Corporate Social Responsibility is integral to the future of our business, and we have developed both Internal Branding and Corporate Social There is scope for further development within this area, which will Responsibility teams to progress these aspects of our business.
startby the implementation of a Company charity to be chosen by Iampleased to sponsor both of these programmes and to provide employees.
To ensure the partnership is effective, the Company is supportive leadership.
donating employee time for charitable activities.
Our internal branding team has been responsible for defining and Even though there will be a designated Company charity, we will articulating the values that define Synergy and then set out a continue to support employees who are involved in other fundraising programme that will see these values embedded within the Synergy exercises.
In the past individual facilities have arranged fundraising Health brand.
One of the key objectives of developing our internal events and we are encouraging this to continue in the future.
brand identity is to create a sustainable, Group-wide culture that lives Work in the community beyond a small number of senior leaders in our business.
In time we also expect that this will create a source of competitive advantage as We believe in supporting and building relationships within local we seek to differentiate Synergy through the actions of our people.
We feel it is important for more people to understand the work we do and to understand the commitment we have to improving Our CSR team is tasked with developing Group-wide policies that will safety and reducing risk through our high quality services.
see Synergy more engaged with its local communities, reducing the impact of its operations on the environment and creating a positive A prime example is our sterilisation business, which recently held a environment for its employees.
student educational day in conjunction with the Swindon Academy.
Sixth-form students from the academy were provided with a tour of We are delighted at the success of our education days in the past year theGamma site at Elgin and the South Marston laboratory, as well for external audiences.
Building relationships is very important to our asreceiving presentations from key personnel in the business.
business, and we would like to see improvements in establishing Additionally, our Senior Management team has been active in community relationships, along with more involvement in charitable providingtalks and advice for university students looking for work.
We shall be encouraging our employees to choose a Company recruitment opportunities in the upcoming year.
charity in the coming months.
We look to build on these achievements by continuing to offer such Our success over the past 20 years has been derived from the educational days for local schools, and build stronger relationships with creative, committed and talented people that we have within our hospitals in return for their continued support of our services.
We continue to make a commitment to broaden the training, support, and development opportunities that our employees deserve Thought leadership atall levels of the business.
In addition we are committed to reviewing Help to healthcare and improving the working environment in support of our diversity policy and our objectives of ensuring that we attract and retain the Our vision is to build a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in verybest people.
global health-related markets by differentiating our services and products through the way we work.
The healthcare sector has We have made progress in the past few years to improve the effect of provided a platform to build a successful business, and we would like our services environmentally, which has resulted in reducing the level to continue to work within the industry to share ideas and energy to of total carbon emissions by over 7% in the past financial year, in part inspire continuous improvement through innovative change.
resulting in the award of the Carbon Trust Standard.
Looking ahead we will continue to improve our energy utilisation and broaden our efforts We work within a wide range of locations with different standards of in 2012 to make progress on improving our waste management healthcare, and there are plenty of opportunities for us to improve controls, enabling the business to reduce the levels of absolute waste, these standards on a global basis.
We are proud of our work in China along with providing and using more recycling facilities.
This will give us to aid the development of safety standards in Chinese hospitals.
a great base to continue to improve our environmental performance.
Werecently entered into a formal partnership with the China Britain Education Centre in a project to promote mutual exchanges in ideas, Despite the challenging economic climate and the broader ambitions knowledge and innovation amongst medical professions.
of the Group, we are pleased to have achieved so much progress in the past year, and we look forward to making further progress in the To underline our achievements in this area, we have been awarded the coming year.
Greater China Rising Star Award at the Greater China Achievement in International Trade ceremony, and the Most Promising New Business Community relationships Award by the British Chamber of Commerce in China.
We were Charitable relationships praised for developing local partnerships with Chinese hospitals to help them comply with healthcare standards introduced by the Chinese There are many examples of Synergys employees organising Ministry of Health in 2009, and the unique proposition to Chinas charitable events internally.
The Company has also supported Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are e t n I y t i l i b a t n u o c c A t n e m e Synergy Health plc 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility healthcare community as well as commitment to developing the Chinese management skills through our graduate programme.
We are targeting closer working relationships with selected universities to aid development within the healthcare sector, and provide opportunities to help medical professionals with their development.
Forexample, we have been working in partnership with Queens Thinking Driving forward University, Belfast providing electron beam services for a research Analytical thinking Customer focus Innovation Commercial acumen project on bioresorbable polymers.
After our recent American Information seeking Initiative and pro-activity acquisition, we intend to develop a strategy to help reduce infection Oraganisation awareness Planning and organising and alignment Focusing on results rates within the USA, and continue our work to improve healthcare Technical and standards in China.
professional expertise Educating stakeholders in our markets Since the Company was formed in 1991, our business and employees Developing Leading have built up a wide range of knowledge in sterilisation, infection self & others & interacting Adaptability Communication control and other health related areas.
We are committed to sharing Concern for accuracy Inuencing and this knowledge with a variety of people to educate them in the fields Decisiveness persuading Resilience Interpersonal skills ofour services.
Self-development and Relationship building coaching others Teamwork For example, in the past year our sterilisation business has held a Leadership series of education days to broaden knowledge in this complex field and to ultimately raise standards within the healthcare sector.
These education days have included: Microbiological validation and compliance for medical devices Electron beam featuring a tour of our Tullamore facility A Good Cleanroom Practice and Environmental Monitoring day Achievement We believe our success comes from our focus on exceeding expectations and our commitment to go that extra mile, An analysis of the various sterilisation processing techniques, however small the difference may seem.
alongwith discussing effects on polymers and the usage of electronic components Accountability We take personal responsibility for our actions and are equipped to take the right course of action.
Ethylene oxide education day introducing theory and technology aswell as a practical insight into the validation process Integrity We believe that the way we work is as important as what we do.
We care deeply about the quality of our work and inspire trust by Looking ahead we shall continue to hold our successful education delivering on promises.
days as well as broaden our contribution and thought leadership to both global and local healthcare markets.
Innovation We achieve the best possible results by working with customers to develop new ways of solving problems and reducing risk.
Workplace environment Our ethics policy can be found online at: Our values http: www.
aspx To progress the Branding and CSR Programmes, we have outlined thecommon values in our business.
A leadership model has been developed that includes our four core values and our intention is to have these values embedded within the Synergy brand.
v e i h c A n o i t a v o n n I y t i r g Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 27 Training and development Senior leadership It takes a certain type of person to work at Synergy, one who This year we welcomed Constance Baroudel to the plc Board as the understands the importance of the work we do, recognises the first of two appointments that will see a more appropriate balance implications of their actions, and can make a difference with the between men and women on the Board.
Within our Senior Leadership development of the business.
We understand that our employees Community, which represents our top global 65 leaders, women areacore asset to our continued success, and we are focused on represent just 17% of the community.
Whilst we are not intending to attracting and retaining talented and committed personnel.
Strong set targets per se, we are putting in place support networks to ensure growth within the business has given opportunities for our employees that all of our people who have senior leadership potential are given to develop their skills, and progress their career within the business.
adequate support and to ensure that there are not artificial barriers that would impede their career development within Synergy.
We take a Our Human Resources department works closely with managers similar view towards ethnicity, where we believe we would benefit from andemployees to meet their aspirations for personal growth and a much more diverse population of senior leaders.
We perform an organisational capability review toassess the management teams performance against the skills required, along Ethnicity with development centres to access their potential, andassist them to There is a wide range of ethnic groups within the business, largely create development plans.
Our employees have semi-annual and dueto our spread of facilities around the globe.
The UK and Ireland, annual performance reviews.
and Europe in particular consist of mainly white employees, and as At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of four talent these regions account for a high proportion of our workforce, it reviews are undertaken per year where the Board discusses the talent disproportionately influences the overall ethnic diversity of our Group.
within the business with a view to how they can develop further.
The Group is looking to introduce a mobility policy with the intention Anexample of our desire to grow and develop our talent pool is our ofbroadening employees international experience and creating the Graduate Management Training Programme, which has been in place opportunity for minority groups to achieve senior leadership roles.
since 2008 to recruit and develop high calibre graduates.
Ethnicity % We are expanding the use of 360-degree feedback in all business areas and using development centres to monitor the skills and UK & Ireland development areas of our employees.
We aim to put KPIs in place Europe & Middle East which measure peoples mobility in the Company.
As part of our Asia & Africa diversity programme we have informal mentoring schemes in place, Americas and we will be setting out support networks to assist women and other Total specific groups in the business to further advance their careers.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Employee opinions White Asian Black Asian Hispanic Mixed Chinese, Race Employee engagement is important and we have a number of systems Thai Other in place that enable us to understand the views of our employees.
These include employee forums, works councils and engagement surveys.
The next major survey is in 2011 where we intend to more fully understand the perception of our business in relation to our Age brandvalues.
Our business possesses a number of strong teams to carry out and The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, which involves the improve our day-to-day services.
The age profile by region is set out top 65 managers from across the Group.
The community is in place to below, and the data is used for development and succession planning build cross-divisional working practices and ensure that information to ensure the long term sustainability of the Group.
and expertise is shared across the different businesses, along with engaging management, and developing their leadership skills.
We are Age comparison % looking to increase the visibility and interaction of senior management UK & Ireland across the business.
Europe & Middle East Asia & Africa Diversity at work Americas Our leadership embraces diversity, creating the right environment Total forpeople from all walks of life to contribute to our pool of talent.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Wepassionately believe that our future success is dependent on attracting and retaining people from a cross section of our communities Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 Over 60 and indoing so, we will create competitive advantage for Synergy.
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our employees and third-party business partners.
However, we also recognise that there is a need to create the right environment to support our diversity strategy, and the senior leadership of Synergy together with the CSR team are looking at how we develop our business to improve its attractiveness to new recruits as well as to provide support networks for minority groups within our business to positively support their personal development.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are Synergy Health plc 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Gender Environmental issues Energy and carbon reduction We promote a supportive and inclusive culture within our business, with equal opportunities for both genders.
54% of our workforce We are committed to ensuring that our services minimise their impact arewomen.
There will always be a need for a substantial level of energy use given the nature of our services: however it is important that we continue to reduce carbon emissions and our environmental Gender comparison % impact.
Our initiatives have resulted in some substantial reductions UK & Ireland inour carbon footprint this year as well as recognition for our efforts Europe & Middle East and approach.
Asia & Africa In October 2010 we were accredited with the Carbon Trust Standard.
Americas The accreditation was awarded following Company wide dedication to Total achieving carbon emission reductions.
The level of carbon emissions 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% from the business has fallen between 2010 and 2011, and the changes Male Female in consumption by type of utility are shown in the table below.
In relative terms the change in emissions per unit of activity weighted to total energy consumption across the Group is down 7.1%.
The Health and safety overall reduction in tonnes of CO2 per of revenue is 2.9% in real Synergy is committed to upholding high standards of healthand safety terms after adjusting for price inflation.
Each measure indicates that consistently around the globe.
Our track record is strong, meeting and our carbon emission reduction targets for 2011 have been exceeded.
in most cases exceeding externally benchmarked standards.
The outcomes from this year indicate a growing and sustainable carbon management and reduction culture in our organisation as a Our Group Safety Standard was introduced in 2009 to assist managers whole.
The table below shows the absolute carbon emissions along to understand and implement safe systems of work across the Group.
with the total utility usage.
Core activities, such as hazard assessment, manual handling, and contractor control are seen as essential requirements in attaining a 2009 10 2010 11 Variance Variance % safe workplace.
Training has been provided to managers and other Absolute Carbon employees to further improve performance.
We have continued to Emissions tC02 48,700 46,200 2,500 5.1% implement an independent audit system across our sites, with every UK and Ireland 14,000 12,100 1,900 13.4% site fully inspected and reports prepared that clearly identify where Europe and improvements can be achieved.
Middle East 30,500 29,400 1,100 3.4% The CSR Programme will aid our progress in raising health and Asia and Africa 4,200 4,600 405 9.7% safetystandards with our healthcare customers as well as reinforce Total Utilities ourdiligence within the business.
We are improving the availability mWh 190,300 181,900 8,400 4.4% ofhealth and safety data to our employees and will use these statistics to help identify and achieve best practice.
Electricity 47,000 43,700 3,300 7.1% Gas 141,700 136,900 4,800 3.4% Oil 1,600 1,300 300 18.8% The use of gas accounts for 75% of our total energy consumption with the majority of the 4.4% reduction in overall energy coming from gas and electricity.
The reduction in gas was led by changes in production within our Dutch linen business -6% and Thorne sterilisation facility -16%.
Electricity consumption fell 7% by 3.3 million kWh, almost half of which came from reconfiguring work in our sterilisation facilities.
We are pleased with our achievement in reducing our energy use andcarbon emissions and we will continue to work at reducing these levels.
We are analysing our operational performance to identify areas in which to minimise our usage further.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 29 Environmental accreditation The Carbon Trust Standard Quality management Synergy Health plc has been accredited Our businesses are heavily regulated by local and international with the prestigious Carbon Trust Standard.
An independent Quality Management System QMS The accreditation was awarded to the hasbeen developed within each sector of the business, with specialist outsourced service provider experienced quality management professionals working closely with following company wide dedication to their operational colleagues to implement documented systems that comply with all applicable standards.
All our sites are certified to achieving carbon emission reductions.
theappropriate standards, giving our customers the assurance that theyare receiving a quality service.
Our hospital sterilisation sites are In order to achieve the Standard, CE certified for medical device processing, and our medical device thecompany established a Carbon sterilisation facilities are approved to the necessary ISO standards.
Management Team comprising of Thiscommitment to quality was demonstrated when our site at Suzhou became the first hospital sterilisation facility in China to be accredited representatives from each division.
There are a number of internal audits implemented throughout the year, which provide the opportunity to implement best practice and Transport reduce non-compliance rates to the lowest practicable levels possible.
Transportation is pivotal to our services, especially in ensuring a fastWe recognise the long term success of the Group depends on its track turnaround for medical instruments to our hospital customers.
ability to consistently provide services of the highest quality.
Last year Each of our facilities has an objective to provide our logistics services this approach resulted in a number of successful new business as efficiently as possible with a minimum impact on the environment.
projects including: Our vehicle capacity utilisation rates are monitored, trucks are The certification of a new hospital sterilisation site in Leicester.
increasingly fitted with wind deflectors and we are investigating alternative energy sources.
We have adopted a company car policy The granting of a pharmaceutical manufacturing licence to our which has reduced the number of cars and C02 levels between 2010 Healthcare Solutions facility in Chorley.
The following table shows statistics on our car and These developments prove our commitment to quality and our ability commercial fleet usage levels.
to obtain all necessary regulatory approval required by the business, Commercial and by our customers.
Cars fleet 2010 2011 2010 2011 Number of cars 78 66 72 77 Average C02 pervehicle 306 270 324 297 Total C02 forfleet 11,940 8,900 23,327 22,850 The business has expanded its video conferencing technology to reduce the need for travel, and further conferencing units will be installed at existing sites, as well as our recently acquired BeamOne facilities in the USA and Costa Rica.
Recycling and waste management This year the CSR team has launched a new initiative to reduce theamount of waste that the Group generates and to increase thelevelof recycling.
Whilst the Group complies with its waste management obligations, this new initiative will set targets to reduce waste production, further reducing the impact our business has on theenvironment.
Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are
