22 Corporate and social responsibility review Leading the way on digital inclusion, 2.
Environment We will continually improve our environmental performance employee engagement and sustainability.
by using sustainable resources, promoting efficiencies and innovation throughout our business and products and TalkTalk plays a pivotal role in helping over 4.8 million consumer encouraging our suppliers to do the same.
Our energy use and business customers to connect, communicate and thrive per Gb of bandwidth use has fallen over a three year period in the digital age.
Weve always been active in the communities leading to our achievement of the Carbon Saver Standard.
in which we operate and this year weve given our activities more structure and clearer targets so we can more easily track Our target is to further reduce our carbon footprint by 25% by and share our achievements.
Our Corporate Responsibility 2021 based on Gb use of broadband services and to inspire program is built around three themes where we believe our employees and customers to lead a greener life and help we can make the biggest difference digital inclusion, the us to reduce our environmental impact on the world we share.
We will reduce our carbon footprint and waste, by focusing on: 1.
Digital inclusion Energy The internet connects and entertains, educates and informs Building materials it even saves us money.
Yet nine million people in the UK have Appliances never been online, and over four million of those are socially Water excluded due to age, unemployment or income.
And this group Ventilations will become increasingly isolated as more public and private Travel services move online.
Thats why we support and run a number Refuse of initiatives to help communities to bridge the digital divide.
This year we have been included in the FTSE4Good Index, Race Online 2012 the leading global responsible investment index, and won 2 Led by the UKs Digital Champion, Martha Lane Fox, Race several awards.
We have also received a BREEAM Excellent Online calls on people to inspire, encourage and support accreditation for our West London headquarters.
the UKs digitally excluded to take their first steps online.
Benefits to the UK are forecast to total 22 billion, while 3.
Employee engagement 1 households can save 560 per year.
TalkTalk was one of Employees the founding partners and has pledged to contribute by Our people are central to the success of TalkTalk and we have getting 100,000 more people online by the start of the embarked on a program to make the business A Brighter London 2012 Olympics, through education, training and Place for Everyone.
We want our people to feel included, awards programs.
respected and most importantly enjoy their jobs and be passionate about the great culture we share within our work TalkTalk digital champions environment.
We want to recognise our people for doing Our employees share their internet know how in their local great work and helping to drive our business forward.
Our start up kits give them ideas to take to anyone they think would benefit from being online from Brighter Basics their grandparents to local charities.
Uptake has been Our Brighter Basics are a set of values and benefits that impressive, with nearly 200 staff signing up in the first capture our personality and unique identity as a Company.
They define our aspirations as a way of every day life at work TalkTalk brighter futures and reach out into our personal lives and our communities.
We aim to get 1,000 more families in Brent online during Brighter Basics are described on page 9. the 2011 calendar year by working with the Local Education Authority to deliver E-Safety training alongside free and Digital hero awards discounted broadband and telephone packages.
In the These annual awards reward North West, we offer free connections and hardware via outstanding individuals who use digital technology to bring about schools in Salford and were the lead partner in Go ON positive social change.
In 2010, Liverpool, the campaign to help socially and digitally entrants from the 12 UK regions excluded adults and children in the city.
received over 140,000 public votes between them.
The 12 regional winners were invited to the House of Lords where they received bursaries to fund both new and existing projects.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 23 Involvement and recognition Liverpool family concerts Annual recognition schemes continue across the Group: We support the world-renowned such as TalkTalk Heroes in our business to business area.
Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra through our sponsorship Recognising teams and individual performance is an important of their Family Series.
Employee feature of our culture by acknowledging those who have Champions at our Warrington, gone the extra mile for the customer or their colleagues.
Irlam and Preston sites made Recognition has included our ability to invite X-Factor acts sure that over 1,200 of our staff and customers enjoyed free to our sites to perform for our staff and to enable our people concerts at Philharmonic Hall.
to apply for free tickets to attend X-Factor shows through participation in competitions.
The opportunity to be part of Britains biggest TV show is a very popular initiative at TalkTalk.
Employee benefits We were able to extend our comprehensive range of benefits Engagement during the year to include Save-As-You-Earn schemes in the Our Pulse engagement surveys are a regular way of UK and Ireland, enabling employees to participate in the information gathering on the views of our people across performance of the Company.
Employee engagement, the extent to which employees are psychologically and emotionally During the year we were delighted to be able to offer our attached to their work, positively influences customer employees in the UK free broadband and an equivalent satisfaction and productivity.
Our last survey results benefit for our people in Ireland.
registered an engagement score of 74%.
We believe that we can make a big difference in our communities Managers receive engagement data with feedback regarding by inspiring our 3,900 employees to get involved.
This information includes a summary with key for the calendar year 2011 include Give Something Back, the items highlighted in order to enable them to work with their opportunity for staff to take a paid day of leave to take part in teams to improve engagement.
volunteering or fundraising activities in their local community.
Our employees continue to work with our Company charity, Communication Ambitious About Autism, and its incredible work to support Keeping our people informed of developments and the young people with autism.
Autism is a lifelong condition that Companys progress, whilst enabling them to engage in two affects communication, social understanding and behaviour way communication, has been a strong feature this year at in 1 in 100 people.
Didos Blog has become a weekly personalised where professionals and parents are encouraged to talk account of the Chief Executive Officers experiences, with key more about autism and share knowledge and experiences messages to the TalkTalk community.
Employees are free to to achieve the best educational outcomes for autistic children.
post their comments on the blog anonymously should they In 2011 we celebrated a remarkable milestone: raising a total prefer not to include their details.
This is reinforced by Team of 1m over the eight years weve partnered Ambitious About Talk, a weekly set of messages designed to enable managers Autism and their TreeHouse School.
to share information with their teams in a consistent manner.
Through these and other initiatives, we aim to use our position Our All Hands events bring the Chief Executive Officer, to engage, empower and support the communities around us.
senior management and every single person in the Company, 1 The Economic Case for Digital Inclusion October 2009, PWC.
including our outsource service providers at call centres in 2 The most widely used environmental assessment method for buildings.
South Africa, India and the Philippines, together twice a year to get to hear and participate in key messages around the Companys half year and full year performance and results.
Employee forum We have a National Employee Forum and five Local Employee Forums that provide an important basis for communication and consultation on business change matters.
Meetings are held at least quarterly and deal with site based issues raised through our employee representatives and the local management team right through to national matters across the UK and Ireland.
These forums are integral to disseminating information and gathering feedback on matters such as legislative changes, employment levels and people development.
For more information visit: www.
com TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 24 Over Overview view P Per erformance r formance review eview Governance Governance Financial st Financial statement atements s Other information Other information 25 Directors Report: Governance Board and advisors 26 Corporate governance 28 Directors remuneration report 32 Other statutory information 38
