Business review Corporate responsibility At Tate & Lyle we see the Companys performance in financial, operational, social and environmental terms.
They are interdependent and all contribute to creating value, which is why corporate responsibility measures are included in our Group key performance indicators.
Javed Ahmed, Chief Executive Our approach to corporate responsibility CR Reporting parameters is enshrined in our Business Code of Conduct We report safety and environmental performance the Code, a copy of which can be found on our by calendar year, because we are required to do so website, www.
The Code applies for other regulatory reporting.
Assertions made in unconditionally to all wholly-owned parts of this CR section have been verified by our internal the Group, and we also seek to apply the Code audit function and the processes for measuring our in those operations in which we have a 50% carbon footprint have been externally reviewed stake or more.
Where we have a minority stake, by URS Scott Wilson.
we encourage our partners to adopt the Code.
This year we have reorganised our reporting of CR Applying the Code requires proactive management issues for ease of reference, bringing together into at every level within the Company.
one section our reports on safety, our people, the The Board reviews Tate & Lyles CR policies environment and communities.
Next year we plan and performance annually, and the Chief to report using a stakeholder model consisting Executive is the Board member accountable of workplace, marketplace, the environment and for all aspects of CR.
communities to reflect the integral importance of our stakeholders to our decision-making.
Improving our management of CR Following both the Group strategic review and Safety Board effectiveness review we carried out in 2010 details of which are in the annual report 2010, We have no higher priority than safety.
Ensuring we enhanced how we oversee, manage and report safe and healthy conditions for employees, on our CR risks and performance, including: contractors and visitors at all our locations is we established a new Board Committee, essential to our operation as a successful business.
the CR Committee, to review and monitor the processes and measures used to manage Overview of the year social, environmental and ethical risks.
Details Whilst our safety performance at most of of the Committees membership, attendance our locations improved in 2010 and our safety and key activities are on page 42.
The performance continues to compare favourably Committees terms of reference are available against the industry, the Groups overall safety on our website, www.
We were deeply saddened by the death of one employee at our we reorganised CR activities under a new joint-venture plant in Adana, Turkey as mentioned global unit, Group Operational Efficiency in the annual report 2010.
Three other employees and Sustainability GOES.
The Group VP, also suffered serious injuries.
Whilst all three GOES reports directly to the Chief Executive, have now returned to their old positions, these who retains overall responsibility for CR.
incidents contributed to the overall deterioration As part of this reorganisation, we also in safety performance.
This is not acceptable, and created a new position, VP Sustainability, we are taking action to enhance our safety culture with specific responsibility for driving forward throughout Tate & Lyle.
our sustainability work and communicating with stakeholders: and Managing safety with the help of our internal audit function Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy and external consultants URS Scott Wilson, workplace for our people requires effective, we carried out a review of CR performance proactive management.
During the year, we data presented in the annual report.
It resulted undertook a comprehensive review of our in improvements to the way CR data is approach to managing safety.
As a first step, captured across the Group, and changes in August 2010 we introduced a Call to Action to how we measure and report performance.
to standardise best practice and help embed We now report key performance indicators a safety culture Group-wide an effort greatly on a normalised absolute basis, in line with helped by our restructuring as an integrated industry practice.
global company and the subsequent global management of safety initiatives, policies and programmes.
26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Projects and activities Employee safety results We implemented a number of initiatives as part Recordable incident rate improved by 1% of the Call to Action: Lost-time accident rate worsened by 59% the Chief Executive and all his direct reports are closely involved in our safety auditing system: The US Corn Refiners Association CRA safety statistics are an important measure for us.
Our we commissioned external safety consultants, Sagamore plant won three CRA awards relating DuPont, to conduct a Group-wide perception to employee safety this year.
survey and field assessments, leading to a safety improvement plan that includes action Contractor safety results plans for all plants: Recordable incident rate worsened by 13% we have standardised accident investigation procedures, health and safety policies and Lost-time accident rate worsened by 39% procedures, reporting of performance including near-misses, and communications across Benchmarking results the Group: and We benchmark our safety performance against a recognised global leader in safety, DuPont.
Whilst the we have established global forums to share recordable incident rate for employees was slightly best practice worldwide.
above benchmark, the recordable incident rate for contractors was higher than benchmark.
The lost-time Results for the 2010 calendar year accident rates for both employees and contractors Following feedback on last years report, this were also higher than benchmark.
The lost-time year we rationalised the way we present data accident rate and contractor performance continue into two key measures, recordable incident rate to be a key area of focus for improvement.
and lost-time accident rate, in accordance with Occupational Safety & Health Administration Outlook OSHA, the recognised global industry standard.
We are committed to implementing a world-class In line with best practice and transparency we safety culture that delivers world-class safety report here in normalised absolute numbers: performance.
While we are disappointed with and use our Group Safety Index, which we our performance in 2010, we have an agreed safety reported publicly in previous years, as an strategy and objectives plan for 2011 which was internal management tool.
prepared following the results of the work undertaken by DuPont.
Our global safety teams, employees and contractors are working together to implement actions to deliver this plan in 2011.
Safety performance While in practice we make no distinction between employee and contractor safety and we report combined rates in our Group key performance indicators on pages 8 and 9, for regulatory reporting purposes we report on these groups separately.
Recordable incident rate Lost-time accident rate Number of injuries requiring treatment beyond Number of recordable injuries suf ciently serious first aid per 200,000 hours to result in lost work days or restricted work activities per 200,000 hours 0.89 1.82 1.56 1.38 0.64 0.64 1.09 0.46 0.36 0.7 0.69 0.29 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Employees Employees Contractors Contractors The smaller the number, the better the performance.
The smaller the number, the better the performance.
Our target is zero for every Tate & Lyle operation.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 27 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Corporate responsibility Reward: we have new structures for Our people incentivising and rewarding employees, including a new performance-related Group We aim to have good, ethical employment bonus plan and a sales incentive scheme practices and standards across all our operations, consistent across all our locations.
Our in line with our Business Code of Conduct.
Our remuneration policy for directors is explained policy is to reward our employees in order to on page 45. attract, retain and motivate the right people.
Financial remuneration is an important but by Appraisal: we have harmonised our no means exclusive part of this.
employee appraisal system across the Group, and are seeking to assess performance in a Employee profile consistent way.
At 31 March 2011, Tate & Lyle employed 4,111 people across the Group.
The decrease from 5,666 Diversity and inclusion employees is mostly due to the sale of our Sugars We believe in equal opportunities regardless businesses.
These figures exclude any remaining of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, Sugars employees, including those in Vietnam, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic although they were still employed by us on or national origin.
Our policies, practices and 31 March 2011. regulations for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity while being appropriate for the relevant market Employees by business unit sector and country of operation.
Our aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their Speciality Food Ingredients individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
41% The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, Bulk Ingredients training, promotion and career development.
59% An employee who becomes disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
An important part of our cultural transformation is to become more globally diverse and inclusive, Employees by geography both in our internal talent pool and our range of Asia Paci c potential recruits.
We have established a diversity 5% and inclusion council to embed this approach in our operations.
Latin America 15% Health and wellbeing North America 46% We share best practice across the Company Europe, Middle East and work with healthcare partners to provide and Africa 34% information, advice and support on health issues.
Our programmes are developed in line with local needs and cultures.
Outlook 2011: the journey to a Our evolution into a global organisation performance-related culture demands a truly diverse workforce and this will We have seen significant changes in our be a key focus in our recruitment and retention Company as we implement our new strategy.
We will also be working to further embed We support and engage with our employees our new performance management systems on this journey in a number of ways.
and processes across the Group.
Communication: in changing times, regular communication is more important than ever.
With the emphasis on open, two-way discussion, we explore the issues involved in transforming the business through a wide range of channels and media, such as roadshows, workshops, conference calls and our refreshed staff magazine.
These activities include our communication and support programme for employees directly affected by strategic change, namely the establishment of our new innovation centre in Chicago, USA and the establishment of a global Shared Services Centre in d z, Poland.
28 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 The graphs on page 30 show our progress.
Environment In calendar year 2010, versus 2009: We seek to operate in a way that is as Energy use per tonne of production reduced environmentally sustainable as practical, while by 9%, due to energy efficiency projects and working continually to reduce our environmental improvements in plant utilisation impact further.
By using resources such as energy Primary carbon footprint from manufacturing and water more efficiently, and reducing waste, we energy use reduced by 10% per tonne of can also achieve reductions in operational costs production, resulting largely from these energy per unit of production.
Improving the Companys efficiency improvements environmental sustainability, therefore, is not only good for the environment but can also be beneficial Water use reduced by 5% per tonne of financially.
In recognition of this, we are working on production, due to water efficiency projects including an environmental sustainability measure and improvements in plant utilisation in the Group key performance indicators in next Waste reduced by 4% per tonne of years report, while continuing to report on our production, and has reduced by 24% existing environmental metrics in this CR section.
since 2008, following a combination of waste reduction projects, production process Overview of the year changes at Loudon, USA, and improvements Tate & Lyles environmental policy and standards in plant utilisation.
apply to all our activities globally, and we aim to integrate environmental considerations into all Most of our operations globally complied with major decisions.
We focus on those aspects of our their environmental operating permit limits during direct operations that have the greatest potential 2010.
On the rare occasions that a site temporarily impact on the environment, these comprise: our exceeded its limits, we took immediate action energy use and consequent carbon footprint: to correct the issue and prevent a recurrence.
We expect all our operations to meet operating permit limits at all times and treat any 2010 was an exceptional year for us in terms contraventions seriously.
Energy efficiency improved significantly, as projects to improve Outlook ethanol distillation and dehydration at Loudon, Our newly-appointed VP Sustainability will Tennessee, USA, and energy management at provide strategic leadership of our work to further the Decatur, Illinois, USA and Loudon refineries, improve environmental performance, driving action delivered their full benefits.
As a result our plans that will build on our progress to date.
Meanwhile our These plans include: water efficiency increased and waste volume reducing energy and water usage per unit of was reduced through targeted efficiencies.
production, and minimising process waste, Managing our environmental performance through a constant focus on efficient operation, During 2010 we took several measures to improve supported where appropriate by capital the management, oversight and reporting of investment: environmental performance, including: working to eliminate any incidence of implementing one standard environmental audit non-compliance with environmental permits: programme across the Group: continuing to evaluate our carbon footprint: and issuing updated, detailed environmental improving engagement with colleagues and reporting guidance, to ensure reporting on external stakeholders on our environmental a standard and consistent basis: and performance and other sustainability matters.
commissioning external consultants URS Scott Wilson to review our processes for measuring our carbon footprint.
This led to enhancements to our reporting methodology and tools for measuring our carbon footprint, in line with the relevant international reporting standards.
Results for the 2010 calendar year The data presented here outline the environmental performance of our global manufacturing facilities, including joint ventures where we have operational management control or influence.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 29 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Business review Corporate responsibility Environmental performance Energy use Primary carbon footprint GJ per tonne production Tonnes CO per tonne production 2 4.99 4.94 0.41 0.41 4.48 0.37 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Water use Waste Cubic meters per tonne production Tonnes per 000 tonnes production 4.68 9.57 4.65 4.43 7.57 7.23 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 The environmental data for the calendar years 2008, 2009 and 2010 presented in this Annual Report 2011 is not directly comparable to that provided in the Companys annual report 2010 and previous reports due to changes to the Companys structure and developments in the Companys environmental reporting arrangements.
Specifically, these differences are as follows: 1.
Discontinued operations have been removed for 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Inclusion of data from some additional joint ventures.
Movement to normalised absolute reporting i. e. performance per tonne of production volume.
30 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 We support many initiatives and organisations Community involved in community regeneration all round the world, including: We want to play a positive role in the communities in which we operate.
Our policy Europe is to build long-term relationships with local Hungrana, Hungary: our joint venture partners who directly address local needs, and business supported a local primary school by who share our aims in establishing strong, safe and donating equipment and holding safety and healthy communities.
We chiefly do this through environmental events.
charitable donations and by supporting our employees participation in community activities.
Amylum Bulgaria: our joint venture business supports local schools and runs other Overview of the year small-scale initiatives.
In the past, our Sugars division played a key role Tate & Lyle, The Netherlands: we sponsor in our overall community programme.
The disposal a windmill, an institute for visually impaired of the Groups EU Sugar Refining operations on people and a holiday programme for disabled 30September 2010 had no immediate impact children.
We also hold careers, historical and on the recipients of the divisions community technical open days for the local community.
activities, as these activities were transferred with the business.
However, there was an Amylum Nisasta, Turkey: every year our joint impact on the structure and focus of the Groups venture business supports the TEMA Soil Tree overall community programme.
We are therefore Foundation with a local tree-planting day.
undertaking a comprehensive review of the Groups community programme, and will report on the USA results of this review in the annual report 2012.
Lafayette: our two plants support the United Way of Lafayette regeneration organisation.
Charitable donations Decatur: we support agricultural shows, local Our Corporate Donations Committee oversees organisations responsible for arts grants, community policy throughout the world.
It and a range of education, community and selects projects that target local needs and regeneration projects.
We also support the deliver the most positive impact, and ensures Associated Colleges of Illinois.
that our community work reflects our broader responsibilities as a company.
Our guidelines Loudon: our plant supports the United Way for funding and support are: of Loudon regeneration organisation.
education 50% Asia environment 25% We made a one-off donation for the victims of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
health 15% arts 10% Outlook Following the sale of the Groups EU Sugar In the financial year to 31 March 2011, Refining operations, we will undertake a Tate & Lyles total worldwide charitable donations comprehensive review of the nature, purpose and were 346,000 2010 714,000 : this decrease scope of our community programme everywhere is largely due to the sale of the Groups EU Sugar we operate.
We will assess policies, the nature of Refining operations.
pro bono and cash contributions, and the selection of charities we support.
Results will be included in our annual report 2012.
Actual community spend by allocation Arts 10% Health 24% Education 40% Environment 26% Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 31 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
