Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 39 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Report of the Corporate Social  The past twelve months have seen a step-change in the way theGroup has integrated corporate responsibility into allaspects of its business operations.
One of the most visible manifestations of The Group is ever vigilant of the need to take Membership of the thisstep-change has been the creation of the action when existing stock, equipment or CSR Committee of the Board, which is chaired procedures require retrofitting or upgrading CSRCommittee bytheChief Executive Officer and also comprises toimprove environmental efficiency and there the Chairman andChief Operating Officer.
has been significant investment in this respect over the past 12 months.
The terms of reference for the Committee John Hughes Michael Tobin Chairman provide for the Committee to oversee the Responsible procurement Chairman Groups activities in the areas of environmental Simon Batey Michael Tobin Procurement at TelecityGroup is made up SID CEO affairs, marketplace, workplace and community.
largelyof three components: buildings, energy During the year, the Committee has taken action and equipment.
In all three areas we try to Brian McArthuron creating targets to measure performance in Maurizio minimise the Groups environmental impact.
Muscroft Carli Rob Coupland these areas.
GFD Forexample, a number of data centres use John Hughes Chief Operating energy from renewable sources, including officer The influence of the Committee has fed through John Sahar thosein Paris, Stockholm and Amsterdam OReilly Elhabashi into the way the business reports on corporate andthe new Powergate facility in London.
responsibility now and in the future.
As well as showing progress on commitments made last In addition, energy efficiency is now a key buying year, this report sets out clear performance criterion for TelecityGroup as part of its overall Executive Director measures for our most material corporate assessment of the lifecycle running costs of responsibility issues.
These targets are linked equipment.
The Group is continually working Nonexecutive Chairman tospecific targets for 2012 and five-year goals withIT infrastructure manufacturers to help for2016, offering a clear long-term vision of develop devices that consume less power NonBoard member of management Simon Batey John OReilly John Hughes ourapproach to corporate responsibility.
Chairman Chairman Chairman This process of engagement with suppliers The Committee is comprised of members CSR targets are discussed in detail in of the Board and management.
isoneimportant way in which TelecityGroup Simon Batey th John Hughes e table on page 43 g istrying toinfluence industry-wide standards The UK Code does not provide guidance SID John OReilly Maurizio Carli for the membership of this Committee forenvironmental performance.
Managing environmental impact and the Board believes that membership John Simon Batey OReilly SID of representatives of the Board and TelecityGroup has ambitious expansion plans Maurizio Sahar management to be appropriate.
tomeElhabashi et growing cust C o arli mer demand for premium Sahar Elhabashi The Groups Director of Marketing and highly connected data centre capacity across Communications also attends meetings Europe.
Over the next four years the goal is ofthe Committee.
toalmost double the Groups available customercapacity.
In terms of environmental impacts, a key challenge is to maintain improvements in the energy efficiency of existing stock and ensure facilities obtained through acquisition are brought up to standard as quickly as possible.
Inthe past, when companies designed data FTSE4Good is an index designed to objectively centres, the key concern was ensuring the measure the performance of companies that resilience of service provision.
While this remains meet globally recognised corporate responsibility a critical success factor, in todays marketplace standards.
TelecityGroups continued membership Michael Tobin managing energy use and the environmental in the FTSE4Good index acknowledges the Groups CSR Committee impact of facilities is also of great importance.
commitment to responsible business practice.
Chairman 40 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 CSR Committee calendar for 2011 At specific meetings Review of the Groups historical approach to corporate social Review and discussion of: responsibility with a view to introducing more quantitative targets proposed targets and longer-term goals: andmeasures in the future which are relevant and integral to update on objectives for 2011: and thebusiness key areas to be covered in the public CSRreporting.
Agreement that possible CSR targets would be examined and Discussion and agreement on inclusion of several new CSR-related discussed for key areas of the business targets as they pertain to the business, covering environment, customer satisfaction, employee engagement and the anti-bribery policy Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At each meeting Review of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on implementation of actions agreed atprevious meetings over future years and will report on the progress Responsible procurement continued of the initiative in due course.
In addition to these efforts on environmental efficiency, the Company has also taken steps CUE provides a way to determine: Managing and measuring energy use toengage with suppliers working on its capital Opportunities to improve a data centres The IT hardware that supports the growing digital projects on an anti-corruption initiative that was sustainability economy typically resides in highly connected introduced in 2011.
The new anti-corruption data centres such as those we operate.
It is the How a data centre compares with similar protocol provides additional governance on the Groups view that thedata centre industry has a data centres appointment of major contractors involved in new vital role to play increating a more environmentally build projects.
The protocol is designed to apply If a data centre operator is improving efficient economy.
TelecityGroup is committed to companies involved in significant contracts designs and processes over time to minimising its environmental impact, focusing and also to significant equipment vendor Opportunities for the consideration of onnew operational and management processes relationships where major is defined as any renewable power sources developed through its Energy Management contract value over 200,000.
TelecityGroup Trade-offs in energy efficiency strategies Programme and the implementation of best has also sought to apply the protocol to existing bycomparing total CUE under various use practices contained in the EU Code of Conduct contractors and vendors.
During 2011 the initial scenarios, operating conditions, etc.
focus for the adoption of the protocol was in the UK to ensure compliance to recent anti-bribery In November the inaugural 2010 11 CRC Energy CUE is calculated as follows: legislation Bribery Act 2010.
To this end, in 2011 Efficiency Scheme performance league table over 60% of the value of major new UK capital was published by the UKs Environment Agency.
CUE projects was covered by the protocol.
TelecityGroup was placed 103rd in the league table which ranks over 2,000 organisations in Total CO emissions caused by Although the Group only engages with suppliers 2 theUK that consume more than 6,000MWh thetotal data centre energy kg whom it believes conduct their business in a ofelectricity per year according to a weighted compliant and ethical manner, it will continue IT equipment energy kWh score.
This ranking was the highest and therefore towork to increase the number engaged in the best-placed in the data centre sector, and Groups specific anti-bribery protocol.
During TelecityGroup was ranked third in a peer group Total CO emissions caused by the total data 2012 and beyond, focus will be extended to 2 that incorporated organisations in the wider centre energy is the data centre energy cover all geographies in which the Group is ICTmarket.
consumption in kWh multiplied by carbon engaged in major capital investment projects.
intensity of the data centre energy supply We expect this to be an iterative process as The CRC performance score takes into account measured in kg CO kWh.
suppliers are required to update their own 2 the steps a business has taken to implement internal procedures and sometimes their existing energy management and reporting procedures.
Both the numerator and denominator are contractual relationships with TelecityGroup These include installing Automated Voluntary annualisednumbers.
toaccord with the new protocol.
However, the Metering AVM systems and achieving the Group has endeavoured to establish stretching Carbon Trust Standard accreditation, a rigorous targets for the successful roll out of this protocol Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 41 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Achieved In progress Update on objectives set for 2011 Commitment pledged in 2010 Result Commentary Governance Establish a Boardlevel CSR Committee The CSR Committee meets twice each year, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
Other members are the Chairman andthe Chief Operating Officer Environment Drive further energy efficiencies across the Group through The EMP is overseen by the newly created Operational the Energy Management Programme EMP Standards Team, enabling TelecityGroup to achieve further energy efficiencies across the Group Achieve ISO 14001 certification for the newly acquired IFL ISO 14001 has been maintained at all sites.
The IFL data centre data centre in the UK and maintain certification across the will pass through the final stage of the accreditation process in whole estate Q1 2012 Ensure procurement decisions include considerations Some data centres procure energy from renewable sources.
In ofenergy efficiency addition, energy efficiency is a key buying criterion as part of the overall assessment of the lifecycle running costs of equipment Workplace Develop employee feedback survey Survey launched and received a response rate of 65%.
Overthreequarters of respondents 77.4% agreed with the statement that I really enjoy working for TelecityGroup, 16.8% were neutral and only 5.8% disagreed with the statement Achieve OHSAS 18001 certification for the newly acquired OHSAS 18001 has been maintained at all sites.
The IFL data IFLdata centre in the UK and maintain certification across centre will pass through the final stage of the accreditation thewhole estate process in Q1 2012 Launch new 2011 employee share scheme Scheme launched with a take-up rate of 33% in 2011 comparedwith 32% in 2009 and 44% in 2008 Marketplace Achieve ISO 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 certification for The establishment of an integrated quality management system the newly acquired IFL data centre and continue integration has enabled the Group to achieve and maintain ISO certifications of Groupwide ISO compliance and audit systems to retain across the Group.
The IFL data centre was successfully accredited ISO 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 certification for ISO 27001: 2005 and ISO 9001:2008 in Q4 2011 Ensure effective implementation of environmental, quality, Training and the dissemination of knowledge is delivered data security and health and safety systems through through the newly created Operational Standards Team systematic training and dissemination of knowledge Continue engagement with relevant trade associations Senior representatives of the Group continue to be active andindustry bodies participants in bodies such as Intellect, the EU Code of Conduct for DataCentres and the newly-formed Data Centre Alliance Community Explore opportunities to further community investment During the year the Group made cash donations of 150,000 activities through strategic partnerships to a range of charities including Make-A-Wish Foundation, theNSPCC, the Princes Trust and Action for Children Become patron of Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group TelecityGroup became a patron during 2011 Continue to encourage and engage employees in TelecityGroup continues to support employees in activities charitablecauses with charities focused on helping youth development and underprivileged children 42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 The Groups success is predicated on providing capacity to support our customers long-term business growth.
thatit encourages further energy efficiency invests significantly in developing the skills and Managing and measuring energy use while not penalising companies that are helping expertise of our people.
One of the key themes of the certification process requiring organisations to Staff commitment is an important element of Groups engagement is to work with key opinion measure, manage and reduce carbon emissions customer satisfaction four out of five staff formers inside and outside the industry on the across their operations.
arein roles that are dedicated to direct customer wider environmental impact of the digitalisation service and customer engineering roles.
During The Group has further improved environmental of business and commerce.
Data centre the year, for the first time, the Group initiated an efficiency by introducing more energy monitoring operators need to be able to demonstrate the employee engagement survey.
Participation was and targeting systems and installing more critical role of the sector in mitigating carbon strong with a 65% response rate with the results sophisticated metering systems and energy useelsewhere and show that the industry itself showing that over three quarters of respondents analysis.
The Group continues to monitor its isa responsible consumer of energy.
77% agree with the statement that they really annualised power usage effectiveness PUE As part of this process of engagement, enjoy working for TelecityGroup.
The Group will measure which is reported to the Board on a TelecityGroup continues to support the EU Code continue to report on both these metrics and has bi-monthly basis.
While this important metric of Conduct for Data Centres.
Of the approximately set targets to improve performance over time.
willremain an internal measure, the Group 130 data centres awarded participant status, iscommitted to reporting externally on a new Diversity is an important constituent of decision over 20% of these are operated by TelecityGroup, carbon usage effectiveness CUE measure making within the business.
While diversity will making the Group by far the largest single launched during the year.
CUE captures a always remain a factor of success, TelecityGroup participant in the scheme.
In addition, the Group combined picture of the energy efficiency is not in favour of quotas of any type and will remains actively engaged in the Green Grid and ofoperations and the carbon intensity of the continue to focus on hiring the best people submitted data to the Carbon Disclosure Project energy used.
It encourages individual data forthe best roles.
for the first time in 2011. centres to both improve the efficiency of its systems and procedures and seek out low Groupwide ISO compliance and audit carbon sources ofenergy.
TelecityGroup has continued to develop and Combined with internal reporting on PUE, strengthen its integrated quality management Industry accreditations monitoring CUE provides the Group with systems, enabling the Group to achieve ISO and important information to compare the efficiency related certifications across the Group for of data centres and explore trade-offs in energy security, quality and environmental management, efficiency strategies under various use scenarios together with occupational health and safety.
The process of integrating new businesses into these management systems will be maintained Industry engagement in 2012 and beyond with the two most recent TelecityGroup continues to be an active member acquisitions, Data Electronics and UK Grid.
ofIntellect the leading trade association Tofurther strengthen these processes the representing the UK technology industry and Group will launch a new bespoke software seeks to make legitimate representations to the system in early 2012 to improve management UK Government on the Climate Change Agreement audit and tracking of any non-conformance.
and the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
The delivery of these systems is now A concern for the Group going forward is that coordinated by an Operational Standards theGroups continuing growth will compromise Teamcomprising subject matter experts its position in the CRC league table.
Business ineacharea, providing support to country expansion will inevitably mean an increase in managersto ensure they are fully conversant power usage for the Group.
In its current format, inwhat needs to be done to maintain the CRC Scheme is not able to account for the performance improvements.
fact that this increased growth will contribute tothe UK economys overall energy efficiency.
Employees By virtue of the Groups scale and expertise, IT Building data centres will always be a capital equipment housed in TelecityGroup data centres intensive business.
However, the Group is far more efficient to run than if it were hosted recognises that the skills, knowledge and in organisations smaller proprietary server rooms.
commitment of our workforce are vital factors in TelecityGroup is seeking to work with the our continuing success.
As a result, TelecityGroup Government to improve the CRC Scheme so Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 43 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Targets and longer-term goals Target measure Why it is important 2011 actual Target for 2012 Goal for 2016 Group CUE kg CO kWh annualised Carbon efficiency 0.651 Improvement of at Maintain improvement 2 for TelecityGroup data centre footprint isakey measure of least3% reduction from ofat least 3% per 1 excluding UK Grid broader environmental 2011 level annum from 2011level performance Workforce engagement measured as a We want ourpeople 65% Increase participation Achieve a participation % of employees participating in employee tofeel a strong rate in employee survey rateof80% satisfaction survey commitment to by 5% from 2011 level or above thebusiness Workforce satisfaction as measured Motivated people 77.4% Achieve improvement in Achieve a satisfaction byproportion of employees agreeing perform better satisfaction score by 5% score of 80% orabove with the statement in the annual employee survey Ireally enjoy workingfor TelecityGroup 2 Proportion of capital projects Business integrity is 62% 70% of all new major capital 90% of all new major contractors compliant with anti key to successful and projects contractors capital projects corruption protocol as measured by sustainable growth bycontracts value to contractors by % of total capital spend covered by 3 have signed protocol contracts value to contractors working on capital projects have signed protocol awarded during the year who have signed the protocol Customer satisfaction measured Retained clients 96% Maintain customer Maintain customer as a % of customers responding to arevital for the satisfaction levels satisfaction levels customer surveys as either satisfied continuing growth above90% above 90% ofverysatisfied ofthe business Maintenance of ISO OHSAS Management systems Accreditation Maintain integration of Maintain integration accreditations external accreditation maintained in Group-wide compliance ofGroup-wide improves standards existing data and audit systems to compliance and audit onall aspects of centres retain ISO 14001, ISO systems to retain operational 27001, ISO 9001 ISO14001, ISO 27001, Accreditation performance andOHSAS 18001 ISO 9001 and OHSAS ontrack for new certification across all 18001 certification data centres sites.
Achieve in data across allsites centres acquired during 2011 where notcertified Achievement of external CSR Stakeholders want Maintained Maintain listing Maintain listing issuespecific accreditation toengage with FTSE4Good listing inFTSE4Good inFTSE4Good byindependent institutions companies that have Engaged with Maintain Carbon Trust Maintain Carbon Trust and agencies credible external Carbon Disclosure Standard certification Standard certification endorsement as a Project CDP responsible business Continue to engage Continue to engage withCDP with CDP 1 Future CUE results may be affected by: a acquisition of data centre assets which may operate at significantly lower efficiency rates: or b changes in a national grid supplys carbon emission factor.
2 Refers to value of new major capital projects awarded in the UK in 2011.
3 Refers to value of all new major capital projects awarded in 2012 across the Group.
44 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Charitable work Customer satisfaction Emerging issues water and waste The customer is at the heart of everything Beyond these issues that are critical to the future TelecityGroup does in designing, building and success of the business, the Group recognises operating data centres across Europe.
The that there are emerging concerns that will be of Groups success is predicated on providing greater importance in the near future.
For example, capacity to support our customers long-term many new technologies that drive energy efficiency business growth.
TelecityGroup is committed will also increase water usage through evaporation toachieving the highest levels of customer associated with cooling.
The Group is starting satisfaction and the Group closely monitors its toconsider water efficiency, recognising the performance in this area.
The latest survey importance of water to the resilience of the indicates that 96% of customers are either Groups sites.
In addition, although waste is a satisfied or very satisfied with the level of service relatively small proportion of the Groups that TelecityGroup provides.
The Group seeks environmental impact, the Group is taking tomaintain this very high level of customer measures to ensure it minimises waste and satisfaction and is committed to report on recycles as much unavoidable waste as possible.
Future direction Community investment Over recent months the Group has spent time The shift towards reporting on business-critical developing a set of targets that relate to the most corporate responsibility issues means that, in material corporate responsibility issues forthe future annual reports, data on some of the Groups Group: carbon efficiency, customer satisfaction, activities such as community investment and employee engagement, accreditation of robust charitable partnerships will only feature in the management systems and business integrity.
corporate responsibility section ofthe Group Foreach of these areas there is now a quantifiable website at www.
metric with a specific performance target for 2012 and a longer-term goal for the next five years.
Despite this change in emphasis, TelecityGroup remains fully committed to and engaged in a The Group will be monitoring the performance number of important activities that support ofits data centres in each of these areas and thelocal communities in which the business willreport annually on progress against targets.
The Group believes it can have most Through this process, stakeholders in the business impact by focusing on initiatives that promote will have a clear picture of what corporate education and opportunities for disadvantaged responsibility means to the business and how children and young people.
itis an integral part of our successful and sustainable growth.
During the year the business made cash and in-kind donations of over 150,000 to a range ofcharities On behalf of the Corporate including the NSPCC, Make-A-Wish Foundation,  the Princes Trust and Action for Children.
In addition, the Group became apatron of the Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group.
Several members of the Board hold senior advisory positions in certain charities.
John Hughes Michael Tobin isAmbassador for the Alzheimers Society: Chairman of the Corporate Michael Tobin is Chairman of the Friends of  TheLoomba Trust, a charity providing education 10 February 2012 and aid for children of poor widows in India, a Board member of Byte Night which raises money for Action forChildren and a Board member ofthe Technology Leadership Group of the Princes Trust: and Brian McArthur-Muscroft isamember ofthe Corporate Development Board for the National Society for the Preventionof Cruelty toChildren.
