BUSINESS REVIEW Community at the heart of what we do To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do We work hard to be a good neighbour in the communities around our stores and provide a leadership role on the environment.
Building a long-term sustainable business is crucial to our future success.
Introduction 64m 7.7% Community is an essential part of our long-term strategy.
We are committed to tackling the issues that matter to our communities Donated to local charities Emissions reduction from our and society at large.
and good causes baseline portfolio of buildings We have five Community Promises which we have developed by listening closely to what our customers and staff expect from us.
They are: Buying and selling our products responsibly: Caring for the environment: 100 3 Providing customers with healthy choices: Community Fairs in the UK Three new zero-carbon stores in the Czech Republic and the UK Actively supporting local communities: and Creating good jobs and careers.
Each year, we set KPIs in each of the 13 countries where we operate stores so that we can measure our progress on projects which sit alongside each of these commitments.
100% Pledging to become a zero-carbon business by 2050, for example, Nutritional labelling on eligible means that we can play our part in tackling climate change.
own-brand food lines Climate change matters to our customers wherever we operate and by cutting our own emissions, we can make a real difference.
We are also working with other businesses to transform the consumer goods industry by tackling carbon hot spots in the global supply chain.
At the same time, we are helping our customers to cut their carbon footprints by 50% by 2020.
To read our Corporate Responsibility Report online www.
com  34 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements SCHOOLS OF EXTENDED EDUCATION In South Korea, we celebrated the opening of our 100th School of Extended Education and took our total to 107 in the year.
Our South Korean Schools provide people with a place to get involved in a variety of activities from dance classes to cooking.
940,000 places at our Schools of Extended Education in South Korea this year TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 BUSINESS REVIEW 1bn Community at the heart of what we do of locally sourced product sales in the UK We are also working to strengthen the sustainability of our supply We want to be highly valued by our local chains by assisting with export growth.
In India, we held a Tesco Meet communities and this year, we have made the Buyer event in Mumbai this year and have been working with the Joint Economic Trade Committee to help Indian exporters access good progress with our Community Promises.
We have listened to our customers and know that many of them want to buy locally sourced products to support their local communities.
This year in the UK, we have reached sales of 1 billion for local products.
In Turkey, the large majority of our own-brand Kipa products are Buying and selling our products responsibly domestically sourced, helping many small local suppliers to compete In every country throughout the world, our customers want safe, with larger international suppliers.
Many also want to know that what they buy is sourced to robust ethical and environmental standards.
We want Caring for the environment to provide all of our customers with what they want, whatever their As one of the worlds largest retailers, we have a clear responsibility needs and we believe it is possible to do this while upholding strong and a significant opportunity to protect the environment.
Our aim standards across our business and in our supply chains.
is to create more sustainable ways of doing business.
We work in partnership with our suppliers to ensure our products are We are reducing our direct impact on the environment, working with sourced responsibly.
We have local technical teams across the world, our suppliers to manage resources more carefully in our supply chains working alongside our commercial teams to ensure that our standards and empowering our customers to create a mass movement in green are met in every area of our business, and dedicated ethical trade consumption.
managers in key sourcing countries.
We know that retail businesses can play a powerful role in tackling We continue to engage with our suppliers through our Trading Fairly climate change.
We are determined not only to play our part, but programme and in Bangladesh, China and South Africa we help to play a leading role.
We are working to reduce our own emissions, suppliers and stakeholders address local and national challenges.
while also engaging with customers, other businesses, suppliers, non-governmental organisations NGOs and governments to bring about change.
We are making real progress in becoming a low-carbon enterprise.
This year, Tesco was named the top retailer in the Carbon Disclosure Projects 2010 UK FTSE 350 and Global 500 reports for our carbon reporting and performance.
Our global direct carbon footprint in 2010 11 was 5.44 million tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent.
2 This year, we continued to decouple our business growth from the growth in our carbon emissions: while our net sales area grew by 8.8%, our carbon footprint increased by only 1.7%.
We opened the worlds first zero-carbon supermarket in Ramsey, Cambridgeshire, in 2009.
This year, we opened our first international zero-carbon store in Jarome r, Czech Republic, and completed two more zero-carbon stores in the UK, in Welshpool and Bourne.
Together with Unilever, Tesco co-chairs the Sustainability Steering Group of the Consumer Goods Forum, and is leading the project announced in December 2010 to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.
This work involves developing and committing to sustainable supply chains for palm oil, timber, soy, paper and beef.
Providing customers with healthy choices We want to help our staff and customers to lead healthy lives.
As a global business, we know that healthy lives mean different things ZERO-CARBON STORES in our different markets.
We aim to work with partners in industry, academic and technical experts and governments to understand and We opened our second help tackle key public health issues for example, food safety, obesity zero-carbon store in Jarome r, and alcohol misuse.
36 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements TESCO GREAT SCHOOL RUN Over one million primary school children in the UK took part in our Great School Run.
We have a clear role to play in making high-quality foods affordable Actively supporting local communities to everyone, and in giving customers the information they need to The local communities around our stores are home to many of our make healthy food choices.
We can also use our trusted brand to customers, staff and suppliers.
We want Tesco to be more than a store encourage our staff and customers across the world to adopt healthy, to them.
This means being in tune with the needs and values of local active lifestyles.
communities, engaging positively on the issues that matter to them We currently have 100% nutrition labelling on eligible own-brand food and making lasting contributions that improve local areas.
By doing lines in all of our markets and we offer Healthy Eating brands in seven this, we ensure we are true to our values, and help build our customers countries.
Our Healthy Eating brands are nutritionally balanced lifetime loyalty.
products that have controlled amounts of fats, sugar and salt.
We have exceeded our target of donating at least 1% of pre-tax profits Last year, we encouraged over 7.2 million staff and customers to get to charities and good causes.
In total, this means that we have donated active across the world exceeding our targets in all markets.
Our over 64 million this year.
We have also raised 7.2 million for our UK Get Healthy with Tesco Lotus programme helped 4.2 million people Charity of the Year, CLIC Sargent.
get active in 2010 through an aerobics competition, an annual Tesco We are continuing to roll out our Community Champions across Lotus Walkathon and football clinics.
Community Champions are Tesco employees who spend In the UK, our Great School Run involved over 1 million primary school a proportion of their week coordinating activities in their local children and more than 700,000 customers and staff took part in communities.
Our customers want to feel engaged in their local causes Cancer Research UKs Race for Life and Run 10k.
and the best people to identify these causes are living and working in the communities they support.
We now have over 650 Community Champions across the Group.
In Thailand, we achieved our one million hours volunteering target, reinforcing our position as the retailer perceived to be most supportive of local communities.
Last year in the Czech Republic, our Tesco We are committed to buying Foundation shared 23,700 between 21 NGOs, with the donation being used for a variety of schemes from the tutoring of disadvantaged and selling our products responsibly children through to equipment for disabled people.
to ensure that everyone involved is Following on from the success of our UK Community Fairs initiative in treated fairly.
2009, we increased the number of Community Fairs to 100.
The fairs, held up and down the UK, provided an opportunity for local charities to sign up new volunteers and for local suppliers to showcase their products.
The fairs were a resounding success, with over 10,000 new volunteers signing up for local projects.
Creating good jobs and careers We have over 290,000 employees across the UK, making us the biggest private-sector employer in this market, and over 492,000 worldwide.
We are dedicated to providing diverse career opportunities for all our staff worldwide from positions in stores, to roles for store managers, buyers, accountants and lawyers.
This year, we increased the total number of staff in the Group by 21,000.
Our Regeneration Partnership stores in the UK help long-term unemployed people get back to work and guarantee face-to-face interview training for everyone who applies.
Our successful candidates have an eight-week training course on life skills and confidence building, after which they begin work in our stores.
This year, we developed eight new Regeneration Partnerships bringing the total to 35 stores, and around 4,000 jobs created for long-term unemployed people.
For more information on creating good jobs and careers, see pages 42 to 45.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37
