BUSINESS REVIEW 7.7% Community at the heart of what we do Emissions reduction from our baseline portfolio of buildings To put our responsibilities 64m Donated to local charities to the communities we serve and good causes at the heart of what we do We work hard to be a good neighbour in the communities Providing customers with healthy choices around our stores and provide a leadership role on the We want to help our staff and customers to lead healthy lives.
Building a long-term sustainable business As a global business, we know that healthy lives mean is crucial to our future success.
different things in our different markets.
We want to be highly valued by our local communities We have a clear role to play in making high-quality foods and this year, we have made good progress with our affordable to everyone, and in giving customers the information community promises: they need to make healthy food choices.
We can also use our Buying and selling our products responsibly: trusted brand to encourage our staff and customers across the world to adopt healthy, active lifestyles.
Caring for the environment: We currently have 100% nutrition labelling on eligible Providing customers with healthy choices: own-brand food lines in all of our markets.
Last year, we Actively supporting local communities: and encouraged over 7.2 million staff and customers to get Creating good jobs and careers.
active across the world exceeding our targets in all our markets.
Buying and selling our products responsibly Actively supporting local communities We work in partnership with our suppliers to ensure our products are sourced responsibly.
We want Tesco to be more than a store to the staff and customers who live in the communities around our stores.
We continue to engage with our suppliers through our Trading Fairly programme.
In Bangladesh, China and South We have exceeded our target of donating at least 1% of Africa, we help suppliers and stakeholders address local and pre-tax profits to charities and good causes.
In total, this national challenges.
means that we have donated over 64 million this year.
We have also raised 7.2 million for our UK Charity of the We have listened to our customers and know that many Year, CLIC Sargent.
of them want to buy locally sourced products.
This year in the UK, we have reached sales of 1 billion for local products.
We are continuing to roll out our Community Champions Tesco employees who spend a proportion of their week Caring for the environment coordinating activities in their local communities.
We now have over 650 Community Champions across the Group.
As one of the worlds largest retailers, we have a clear responsibility and a significant opportunity to protect the Creating good jobs and careers environment.
Our aim is to create more sustainable ways of doing business.
We have over 290,000 employees across the UK, making us the biggest private-sector employer in this market, and over Our global direct carbon footprint in 2010 11 was 5.44 million 492,000 worldwide.
We are dedicated to providing diverse tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent.
This year, we 2 career opportunities for all our staff worldwide from positions continued to decouple our business growth from the growth in in stores, to roles for store managers, buyers, accountants and our carbon emissions: while our net sales area grew by 8.8%, lawyers.
This year, we increased the total number of staff in the our carbon footprint increased by only 1.7%.
This year, we opened our first international zero-carbon This year, we developed eight new Regeneration Partnerships store in Jarome r, Czech Republic, and completed two more bringing the total to 35 stores and around 4,000 jobs for zero-carbon stores in the UK, in Welshpool and Bourne.
24 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SCHOOLS OF EXTENDED EDUCATION In South Korea, we celebrated the opening of our 100th School of Extended Education and took our total to 107 in the year.
Our South Korean Schools provide people with a place to get involved in a variety of activities from dance classes to cooking.
940,000 Places at our Schools of Extended Education in South Korea this year TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 25 TESCO VALUE AND FINEST IN THE UK The popularity of our Pillar brands with customers has meant that Tesco Value has become the second largest food brand in the UK ahead of Coca-Cola with sales of more than 1 billion a year.
Tesco Value is only pushed into second place by Tesco Finest.
More than half of our customers buy from the Finest range on a regular basis, from Finest spectacles to Finest Restaurant Collection ready meals.
1bn Both Finest and Value now sell more than 1bn each year 26 TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011
