Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 35 Our Sustainability to be a successful business, we need to be sustainable.
that means embedding sustainability within our company and everything we do.
we are committed to building on our progress so far and continuing on our sustainability journey.
Sam Weihagen Group Chief Executive Offi cer managing SuStainaBilitY our group viSion The Board, through the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee To ensure the longevity of our business by delivering and Group Executive Board, sets the Groups sustainability sustainable and profi table growth.
Robust management systems and policies support To integrate sustainability into everything that we the implementation of our sustainability strategy.
do every product we sell, every customers holiday Over 2010 11, we made good progress in embedding experience, every employees role.
sustainability further into the business and continued to refi ne To make dreams come true for everyone involved our key issues within the four strategic areas listed below.
in our business, today and for the future.
We set up our Group Working Party on Sustainability GWPS, KeY achievementS in 2011 in 2010 for strategic decision-making.
Over 2011, we made Our UK airline worked closely with all our base airports progress in developing a global approach to sustainability, to gain their commitment to recycling and establish encouraging sustainability leadership across the Group and the necessary infrastructure to maximise in-fl ight sharing best practice across our operations internationally.
Across the Group, we communicate on sustainability to our We launched networks of sustainability and people using the intranet, emails, employee magazines and environmental champions across the Group to promote newsletters.
We also have networks of sustainability champions and engage our people in sustainability.
across the Group, who take a leadership role in shaping the We developed a Group-wide child protection policy.
sustainability focus of their business.
We developed a Group-wide vision and strategy along with some stretching 2020 targets.
We became the fi first global tour operator to subscribe OUR MARKETPLACE OUR ENVIRONMENT to Travelife.
Conservation of CUSTOMERS natural assets Awareness raising Emissions Education of children Aircraft ef ciencies Product differentiation Energy ef ciency and security Brand enhancement Resource use our SuStainaBilitY StrategY Health and safety Waste prevention and recycling Satisfaction We believe that the success of our business rests on our Business travel SUPPLIERS commitment to be economically, environmentally and socially Supply chain management sustainable.
Our approach is to maximise the benefi ts that Travelife awards Water management our business brings, while minimising the adverse impacts Education of our operations.
Animal welfare If we successfully address these issues, Our sustainability strategy is centred on the key areas which we will be we believe contribute to a sustainable business model: people, a sustainable marketplace encompassing customers and suppliers, business environment and communities.
OUR COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE Our strategy diagram shows how these four areas are Protecting local cultures and Engaging employees interlinked and together create a truly sustainable business.
environments in sustainability Improving local livelihoods A better place to work Within each of these four areas are a number of material Child protection Integration into values and culture Charitable giving Encouraging innovation issues.
Many of these are managed by our sustainability team, Employee volunteering in sustainability while some, such as customer health and safety, are managed Improving places where Employee welfare we live and work within other areas of the business.
directors report: 36 Business review Our sustainability continued StaKeholder engagement organisations took part.
Topics discussed included: Engaging with stakeholders enables us to understand their tackling human rights issues in supply chains through interests and concerns, and to discuss and explain our position.
greater collaboration within the tourism sector: This informs our sustainability strategy and ensures we the accountability of senior management for delivering are focusing on the most important issues and driving the Groups sustainability strategy and targets: and our performance.
the need for clearer and more accessible results of the We held a formal stakeholder consultation in 2011 where Groups sustainability performance.
we asked for opinions on our strategy, our reporting and The discussions with stakeholders have informed our our key issues.
Stakeholders from UK-based and international sustainability strategy and we will look to conduct more sustainability and tourism associations, environmental and stakeholder consultations in the future.
wildlife charities, and governmental and academic our performance The following table shows our performance to date against our 2011 Group targets.
target progreSS marketplace customers To include sustainability messages on all Group Achieved UK, Central Europe, Northern Europe, consumer websites Belgium and North America marketplace Suppliers To subscribe to a Group-wide supply chain management tool Achieved Travelife environment emissions and energy To establish a baseline for Group energy use Achieved Airlines to reduce CO emissions by 0.5% on FY2009 10 Achieved 2 environment resource use and waste To implement a recycling programme within all Group Partially achieved corporate offi ces All Group business segments to measure and report Partially achieved waste produced To engage with base airports to implement recycling Achieved of in-fl ight waste To reduce water consumption by 2% per guest night in Not achieved Group owned controlled hotels Business mileage travelled by car to be measured and reported across all business segments On track communities To develop a Group policy on child protection Achieved Each business se gment to develop a charitable strategy Agreement made on types of charitable giving for home communities but strategy not fully developed in all segments people Each business segment to have a network of environmental Achieved UK, North America, Northern Europe, ambassadors an environmental committee Belgium, Central Europe To include sustainability in the business objectives of In Quality Assurance Manager job description key overseas staff Overall we have made good progress against our 2011 targets.
The direction set by the GWPS has led to improved performance, which has resulted in meeting more of our Group targets.
In the coming year we will continue to address those targets which we did not meet.
We have improved data collection processes across the business this year, which will help us to continue to set challenging targets going forward.
Further details on progress, including towards segment-specifi c targets and our Group-wide 2020 targets, will be included in the full online Sustainability Report 2011 www.
com sustainability, which will be published in February 2012.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 37 Our Marketplace Our Environment Customers Environmental management Every area of our business is fully committed to providing We manage our environmental performance through our Group the highest levels of customer service.
We engage with our Environmental Policy.
Some of our operating companies have customers and deal with them honestly, transparently and formal environmental management systems such as ISO 14001 fairly.
We measure our success through customer satisfaction to which the UK and Scandinavian airlines are accredited.
surveys and use this invaluable feedback to help us In 2010 11, we improved data collection processes around the continually improve.
Group and set up a temporary database for better analysis and Customer health and safety is our priority.
We have researched and analysed various options are tightly regulated and we aim to minimise risk and improve for the sustainability database best suited to our business, our processes wherever possible, for example through our: and will confirm this in the coming year.
ISO 9001 quality management standard: and Emissions and energy Thomas Cook Group Preferred Practice programme, Most of our carbon emissions are from aircraft although our which focuses on improving health and safety by globally airlines are among the most efficient worldwide due to our coordinating information and reporting systems with local high load factors.
We continually implement carbon reduction policies and decision making.
Suppliers must sign up to initiatives such as equipping planes with winglets to create the programme standards and are audited against them.
We aim to raise awareness of sustainability with our customers Our energy consumption includes electricity and gas used by using Travelife logos in our brochures and marketing in our buildings and vehicle fuel used in business travel.
material, so our customers can easily recognise those hotels We installed smart meters in our UK retail stores to show that actively protect and support their local environment energy use.
This instant access to data has already led to and communities.
implementation of energy-saving measures, for example, resetting the heating timers to match occupancy levels in Suppliers one store saved an estimated 30 tonnes of CO a year thus 2 It is important to manage our supply chain sustainably to demonstrating the link between sustainable operations build trust, increase efficiency and reduce costs and risks.
In 2011, the whole Group subscribed to Travelife, an industryResource use and waste wide initiative which audits properties against social and While our priority is to avoid waste, where waste is inevitable, environmental criteria and offers awards.
This allows us our aim is to reuse or recycle.
Our airlines have engaged to have a consistent approach to encouraging best with our base airports to arrange the necessary recycling practice worldwide.
infrastructure thereby maximising our in-flight waste recycling Around the Group, 135 hotels hold Travelife awards.
We have and diverting a significant amount of waste from landfill.
been working to improve our own hotels so that we can lead Read more in our Sustainability Report 2011. by example: www.
com sustainability All ten of our Sunwing hotels have Travelife gold awards.
Before moving to the Travelife system, Sunwing was the first company to receive EU Ecolabels in every country of operation.
Our SENTIDO brand launched an ambitious programme to have all hotels 33 at present at a Travelife award level by 2013.
In addition, we will train managers of hotels with gold awards to achieve even more and set best practice standards.
SENTIDO subscribed to Travelife in June 2011 and already has seven hotels at award level.
Hotels have subscribed to Travelife and are working towards achieving awards on audit.
directors report: 38 Business review Our sustainability continued Our Communities and retain the people who will deliver business success.
Nobody is better placed to tell us how we are doing than our people.
A fi fifth annual Group-wide employee engagement survey run by an independent specialist third-party has recently been conducted and the results are being analysed by management at Group and segment level.
The survey gives all employees the opportunity to share their Our business longevity depends on the health and prosperity open and honest views on how they feel about working for the of the communities in which we work.
We are developing a Company, what we are doing well and how they believe we Group-wide community strategy which will cover source could improve.
In 2010, we recorded a response rate of 77% markets and destination communities.
Key focus areas will which is our highest yet and indicates the value our employees include children and education, health and the environment, place on providing their feedback.
The level of engagement as well as attributing resources for disaster and emergency increased again this year remaining signifi cantly higher than relief.
Full details of our community contributions including internationally recognised benchmarks.
As important, charitable giving, volunteering and gifts in-kind will be employees understanding of our Values, the how we disclosed in the full online Sustainability Report which will be do business was rated as Excellent.
The Group-wide cash charitable Within segments, actions are developed in response to survey donations for the year totalled 128,000. results.
In Northern Europe, leaders reward is directly linked In destination communities in particular, it is our responsibility to the outcome of the engagement survey for their area and to promote and safeguard childrens welfare.
We must raise all managers are targeted on an 80% score, with clear support awareness among our people, customers, suppliers and other and development in place to support those who have yet to stakeholders, ensuring they are suitably informed and trained meet the target.
to identify and react effectively when child safety may Regular communication with our employees is key to ensuring be at risk.
that everyone remains focused on the Groups agenda.
The In 2011 a Group-wide child protection policy was developed Company commits to using a range of communication and and approved.
Further to the policy, the Group will also sign feedback channels.
up to The Code an industry-driven code of conduct for In Condor, regular webchat sessions are available for the the protection of children from sexual exploitation in travel employees to engage directly with the segment Chief Executive and tourism.
Offi cer and his leadership team.
In Central Europe, a key focus has also been improving leaders skills in actively seeking and receiving direct feedback from their teams.
Our People As our business evolves, there will be developments that directly impact our people and we are committed to consulting on these via our internal consultation forums, through discussion with our European Works Council and local representative groups.
diverSitY and incluSion A key strength of our organisation is our diversity we believe it is an essential part of how we do business and we continue to ensure that we meet the needs of our equally diverse our emploYeeS and valueS customer base.
Our business depends on our people offering our customers We operate in 22 countries, employing people from a wide great service every day.
We have 31,000 employees across range of backgrounds and countries.
Working within a single Group culture they are the Board and to the Group Executive Board have increased focused around a common set of values, which guide how diversity, in terms of skills and experience, internationality we do business and work together.
and gender, in line with the recommendations of the Davies Our vision we go further to make dreams come true is Report, entitled Women on Boards.
The leadership teams and embedded amongst our people through the promotion of the segment boards are also diverse, which improves the sharing PROUD values, a set of fi five values which are the cornerstone of of best practice and insight from different countries across the the actions of our people.
These values are reinforced through Group.
With new appointments we seek to further increase the all of our people processes and through PROUD awards, which breadth and depth of knowledge.
recognise individuals and teams who have gone further to The underlying principle of our approach to diversity is that we make dreams come true for our customers.
do not tolerate any form of unlawful discrimination, and aim engagement and involvement to refl ect the diversity of the communities in which we operate.
Whilst current business performance creates uncertainty and We are committed to treating people fairly and ensuring that change for many of our people, we are committed to ensuring our employment policies are free from any form of unlawful that Thomas Cook is a great place to work and is able to attract discrimination against existing or potential employees.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 39 incorporates the Product Academy which offers up-to-theThe Equality and Human Rights Commission positively minute information on our products, so our people can acknowledged the work done by our UK segment to further better serve our customers.
develop a culture based on equality and diversity, clearly aligned to our business strategy.
A key part of this has been In India, the Centre of Learning has been established to the diversity e-learning programme that has been delivered build a talent pool for Thomas Cook, as well as the wider to segment leaders, and which will be further rolled out to leisure industry.
Acting as an additional revenue stream, the all UK employees in the coming months.
organisation offers development programmes in a variety of travel-related subjects and through the open courses offered To support our employees with young families our enables the business to strengthen links across the sector German business has developed an innovative public private as well as the opportunity to spot and acquire rising talent.
partnership with local government to establish a crche on the Thomas Cook campus.
This successful initiative provides great As well as formal development programmes, we offer facilities for families in the area, with 30% of places available work placements and secondments to broaden peoples to Thomas Cook employees at a subsidised rate.
knowledge base and provide further stretch.
As an official supporter of the London 2012 Olympics and Paralympic Building the talent pipeline Games, we have the unique opportunity of being able to attraction, development and retention offer a number of our people exciting secondments to Continuing to develop our colleagues and plan succession critical roles involved in the organisation of the Olympics is vital to being able to deliver our business goals.
through our partnership with LOCOG, and around 300 Our talent management and succession plans are continually opportunities as Games Time staff where they can actually reviewed and updated, and each year the Board and Group work as part of the Thomas Cook team supporting Executive Board evaluate succession coverage and strength our customers.
in our key leadership positions across the Group.
performance and reward In 2011, we commenced a programme to benchmark our Effective performance management is central to developing senior talent against international standards and put in place our high-performance culture, and is a core responsibility of targeted development plans for each individual.
Our managers have a vital role to play in coaching, ensure that we have the best possible talent leading the motivating and inspiring their teams through clear objective business now, whilst ensuring that our rising talent is setting and regular feedback.
All of our segments run welldeveloped to meet our future capability requirements.
established annual performance review programmes, with During the year we have strengthened the pipeline by more regular feedback sessions throughout the year where appointing talented external hires at senior levels and have line managers provide feedback and coaching to help people promoted internal talent into key roles.
Our Online Travel develop the right skills and address any challenges they may Agency OTA strategic initiative has recruited well over 100 face in meeting performance standards.
These processes are talented individuals, many of whom are industry experts from underpinned by our values, and guide how we coach our leading online organisations.
Leadership development has people to get the best from themselves and others.
high priority at all levels and across all segments.
Development Many of our employees have an element of their reward is supported through a broad range of activities including directly linked to their personal performance through secondments, coaching, mentoring and international business Company bonus programmes, further reinforcing the school programmes.
For example: link between achievement of their personal objectives, performance of the business and their reward.
Share Both Thomas Cook Central Europe and Condor have ownership is encouraged and although share price well established relationships with universities across performance has been disappointing during the year, the Germany, and offer sandwich courses and apprenticeship Company remains committed to operating share plans across opportunities to rising talent.
Condor has a partnership with the Group to drive greater alignment between employees and the University of Applied Sciences Frankfurt.
The Bachelor of shareholders interests.
The Company also operates Sharesave Arts B.
Aviation Management was launched in September on an international basis which it believes is a responsible 2011 providing an opportunity for talented students to way to facilitate employee share ownership across the whole combine academic study at university with an equal amount employee base, whilst providing security from downside of on-the-job development at Condor sites acrossEurope exposure for those less financially able to withstand share and North America.
The UK is investing heavily in developing its senior management population and has a well-established partnership with Loughborough University who deliver the Thomas Cook Diploma in Leadership and Management for our senior leadership population.
Accessibility to training programmes has increased with the launch in the UK of L&D online this year which enables our people to access learning and development 24 hours a day, every day of the year.
The web-based system provides online learning programmes, reading material, links to informative websites and
