Corporate Responsibility Statement For the year ended 31 December 2011 The Company has not produced a separate Health & Safety: The Board takes into account, environmental, corporate responsibility statement in the report Non Executive Director, Andrew Simon, social and governance matters in its conduct and accounts since it believes these matters Health & Safety report on pages 43 and 44: of the Companys business.
The Board believes are sufficiently important to receive the personal that it has adequate information to identify and attention of individual directors rather than risking Supply chain: assess the major environmental, social and less focus through the exercise of collective Deputy Chief Executive, John Carters review of governance risks and as part of the system of responsibility.
Instead, full details of those areas the year: internal control receives reports on the risks normally covered by such a report are contained associated with these matters.
The Board has either in the reports of the directors responsible Employees: received briefings on such matters during 2011. for such matters, or in a separate report, as Deputy Chief Executive, John Carters review of explained below: the year: and Environment: Community relations: Chief Executive, Geoff Cooper, Chief Executive, Geoff Coopers review of Robert Walker Environment report on pages 38 to 42: the year.
Chairman 21 February 2012 Committees and Professional Advisers Secretary: Executive committee: Corporate broker: A. S. Pike G. I. Cooper Chief Executive and Committee Citibank, Chairman, Credit Suisse Audit committee: J. P. Carter Deputy Chief Executive, C. J. Bunker Chairman, R. Anderson, Bankers: P. N. Hampden Smith Finance Director, J. Coleman The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, N. G. Bell Group Development Director, Barclays Bank plc, Remuneration committee: J. Bird Chairman, Consumer Division, Lloyds TSB Bank plc A. H. Simon Chairman, C. J. Bunker, A. J. Davidson Chairman, Specialist Merchanting, J. Coleman, P. Jansen, R. Walker Solicitors: C. Kavanagh Group HR Director, Slaughter and May, London, M. R. Meech Group Property Director, Nominations committee: Linklaters LLP, London, J. Mescall Chairman, General Merchanting, R. Walker Chairman, C. J. Bunker, Clifford Chance LLP, London, A. S. Pike Company Secretary & Lawyer, J. Coleman Hewitsons LLP, Northampton R. D. Proctor Supply Chain Director, Health & Safety committee: P. Tallentire Chairman, Plumbing & Heating Auditors: A. H. Simon Chairman, R. Anderson, Division Deloitte LLP, London J. P. Carter, R. Walker Investment Bankers Advisors: Registrars: HSBC Bank plc, Nomura International plc Capita Registrars, Beckenham 48
