Environment Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 Introduction It is an occupational hazard of reporting Waste and Resources Action Programme In a difficult market, it is possible to regard on environmental matters that measurement WRAP : environmental challenges as distracting or bases and definitions of data are constantly The Carbon Trust: not crucial to the immediate success of our shifting as regulators, governments and WWF: company.
We do not take that view and, in industries gradually evolve a more robust UK Forest and Trade Network: 2011, we started to build the frameworks approach.
In this report we describe where Constructing Excellence Wales: within the Group to continue to pursue our we have changed our approach in response The Environment Agency: environmental vision.
to these shifts, and also describe where we University of Salford: Specifically we have: believe we need to adopt fresh targets for the The Building Research Establishment BRE : Restructured how we work in the branches future.
The report is structured to cover our Construction Products Association: and to allow us to provide the environmental environmental performance in four aspects The British Retail Consortium.
assurance increasingly required by of Group Environmental Management Our NEEAP continues to challenge our customers who purchase timber and timber Processes, Buying Responsibly, Operating assumptions about the rate and complexity products: Responsibly and Selling Responsibly.
of change and our perceptions of our own Increased the ability of our branches to performance.
The composition of the panel has recycle both our own and our customers Environmental management evolved since its inception in 2009 and in 2011 waste: processes we welcomed three new members, representing Challenged our businesses to instil Working with key stakeholders our customers views, onto the panel.
behaviours aimed at lower energy We have identified three key themes where We received 30 environmental complaints, consumption: we need to innovate, improve and sometimes which have informed and will continue to inform Started to consider how we might better be disruptive in order to achieve our vision.
The detail of these complaints measure, reduce and communicate the Our approach to these themes responsible is included in the relevant sections below.
environmental impact of our international buying, operating and selling is supported supply chain: and by our Non-Executive Environmental Advisory Improving measurement Developed our Sustainable Building Solutions Panel NEEAP and by other communications As far as possible, we use the same data to SBS service to make sure we are at the with stakeholders.
In 2011, we canvassed 44 compile the KPIs reported here and in our forefront of construction product supply for views about our approach through a range of regulatory or voluntary submissions such as a sector being asked to make deep cuts in channels.
the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, Forest carbon emissions.
We continue to believe that a collaborative Footprint Disclosure Project FFDP or WWF UK In 2011 we estimate that 6% 2010: 5% approach is important in delivering sustainable Forest and Trade Network annual report.
Where of our total profit was delivered by being change to the construction supply and home start and year-end periods differ, such as in environmentally responsible.
We have increased the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy uncertainty remaining over the impact of the number of partners with whom we are Efficiency Scheme CRC submissions, we environmental regulation, we will expect to be working to 13.
Each of these partners offers a apply the same measurement methodology.
able to continue to grow this contribution faster skill, perspective or knowledge that we could We use our sector knowledge and experience than our competitors giving us a sustainable otherwise not access.
Some of our important to determine issues of materiality.
partners are: we currently exclude, from our carbon CCF has performed strongly during 2011 38 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Timber certification CO emissions reduction KPI, emissions of other green house 2 Timber purchased by value Corrected data and OECD sales defl ated fi gures gases from air conditioning.
Our KPIs are Tonnes CO per m group sales 2 compiled from measurable data when it is 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 11 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 13 100% 75 available or estimates when not.
Lloyds Register of Quality Assurance LRQA verifies our annual environment report and their 50 assurance statement for this report is available on our website at www.
25 The introduction of a full years worth of data from the BSS Group has made the compilation of 2011 KPIs a little more challenging since 0% 0% 0 road and waste data in particular have had to FSC: Forest Stewardship Council OCS: Other certifi ed schemes Energy Transport 2005 data excludes Wickes timber fi gures be estimated.
made good progress with our range of doors in is already operating with ISO14001 certified Setting ambitions both retail and merchanting.
Door ranges now environmental management control and we We are proud of what we have achieved in have significantly more certified options than have requested that all our general merchant, 2011: uncertified options.
As a result of these two specialist merchant and retail suppliers adopt A 6% contribution to the Groups profit: initiatives, we expect to increase our proportion this standard.
We will make a similar request to Significant improvements in our waste of certified purchases in 2012. plumbing and heating suppliers in 2012. management performance: In 2012, we will be checking that our Over 2011 we have worked with a couple of Sourcing 91% of timber purchases by value existing due diligence system meets the partners to trial a measure of the environmental in our merchanting division from certified detailed requirements of the EU Timber impact of a product that is simple enough well managed or controlled origins: Regulations, with which we will have to comply to be repeated at scale and yet meaningful, The development and introduction of our by 2013.
In partnership with the WWF, we and therefore, useful to our suppliers, our SBS: and campaigned for these regulations, and welcome customers and ourselves.
We have adopted An upper quartile placement in the CRC their introduction.
We anticipate opportunities two approaches, one broad brush, which performance league table.
will arise from better-controlled local purchases aggregates all environmental factors into a For us to retain a sustainable competitive and a level playing field amongst first placers of single score, the other, a narrower focus on advantage, deliver our vision and continue to timber and timber products in the EU market.
cradle to factory gate carbon dioxide emissions.
act responsibly we recognise the need and Our target for 2012 is to ensure that all of We intend to continue developing these intend to establish targets for our carbon the timber products we place on the EU market measures during 2012 before releasing them intensity, waste management performance for the first time are credibly certified.
By for suppliers to adopt.
and contribution to profit from environmental 2014, we expect all our timber and timberactivity for the next 5 to 10 years.
fibre product purchases to be from supply Getting more from less resource efficiency chains that started in certified well managed or In 2011, we continued to review our product Buying responsibly controlled forests.
categories for opportunities to introduce Purchasing more certified products with a higher recycled content, such well-managed timber Controlling the environmental impact as Ecosand made from recycled glass.
We We estimate the Group purchased 85% by of other products have also eliminated approximately 40 tonnes value of timber and timber-fibre products The enquiry rate from our customers, for of packaging from existing products by either in 2011 from supply chains that started in products certified to BES 6001 responsible reduction or reuse.
Although the tonnage certified well managed or controlled forests.
sourcing of construction products remains savings are relatively small, the changes made Whilst the proportion achieved in merchanting low and has not grown substantially over during 2011 are forecast to save over 600 increased, the retail contribution fell slightly, 2011.
At the same time, there is a plethora of tonnes of packaging during the full calendar largely due to increased sales of existing customer facing schemes designed to promote year of 2012.
We continue to work with WRAP uncertified flooring.
the environmental credentials of products.
on home improvement product resource We have now improved the flooring range The international standards bodies are acting efficiency.
so that in 2012 it will consist of material slowly, which is where we believe we should We have not yet done enough work to be predominantly sourced from certified well step in to innovate to find the right solution.
able to quantify a target reduction in resource managed or controlled forests.
In 2012, we will be trying Corrected data and OECD sales defl ated fi gures 2009 restated to include timber chain of custody complaints, to understand the best way of approaching Tonnes waste per m yard and core sales omitted in 2010 report this area.
05 06 07 08 09 10 11 14 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 11 30 60 Operating responsibly Reducing our energy consumption and reducing road journeys 15 30 In 2011, we used approximately the same amount of energy for heating and lighting 241 MWh as we did in 2010, despite the acquisition of the BSS Group, which represents a significant improvement in efficiency.
In 0 0 addition, on a like-for-like basis, we increased Landfi ll Recycling Incidents Complaints the number of deliveries we made to branches from central warehouses and from branches mainly because of the purchase of the BSS and all stores had visibility of their own waste to our customers.
In total, we consumed 14 Group.
In 2011, we replaced 330 commercial reduction and recycling performance.
In 2012, million litres of fuel in 2011, 53% more than in vehicles with more efficient models.
the best performing sites will be able to operate 2010.
As a result, the quantity of carbon dioxide We continued to increase the final destination with neutral waste costs.
CO that we account for increased by 48% to deliveries and internal distribution activity in With the right support from the waste 2 104,000 tonnes.
Whilst we believe we increase the carbon management industry, we believe that zero by the expansion of our Group, and by our efficiency of these activities when we do them waste to landfill is achievable and cost effective supply chain product centralisation initiatives.
in-house, they are counted as new emissions for our businesses.
By 2014, we would expect We estimate, although we cannot measure with against us and therefore do not reflect in our to have achieved a 90% reduction in waste precision, that suppliers save more carbon from KPI.
Our internal modelling of supply chain going to landfill on 2005 levels.
product centralisation than we use in increasing emissions is not yet sophisticated enough to our central distribution activity.
reflect the gains we believe we have made and Operating without polluting Despite our absolute emission growth, we cannot use this data to publically report on our local environment because of acquisitions, we are now a less all emissions across the supply chain.
We were not prosecuted for any environmental carbon intensive business than at any point We will continue to develop our modelling offence in 2011, although we were involved in in the last six years.
In 2011, 52.7 tonnes of capability of supply chain emissions to 19 environmental incidents, which we reported CO were emitted for every million pounds of establish a separate target for distribution and to the competent authorities.
Fourteen of these 2 turnover we took, at 2005 prices.
In 2010 the property carbon dioxide equivalent emissions.
were paint spills in transit, a result of taking on equivalent measure was 60.4 tonnes and you We believe that we are on track to meet our the distribution of paint to our branches, which need to look back to 2007 for our previous 2013 intensity reduction of 20% on 2005 levels.
had previously been done by our suppliers.
Supply chain teams have quickly understood In 2012, we will benchmark carbon Reducing waste to landfill how to distribute paint more safely, but it is an performance between the acquired BSS and increasing recycling area we monitor in case further improvements business, which has recorded better efficiency, In 2011, we sent 79% less waste to landfill than are required.
and the rest of the Group to exploit best we did in 2005.
We extended our waste backWe are disappointed to have caused a practice.
Towards the end of 2011, we gave our haul service to include paper, brochures, timber nuisance to our neighbours at four of our Merchant and Wickes branch managers visibility and pallets.
Branches and stores now routinely branches over 2011, with one being issued of their electricity consumption patterns for the segregate 18 waste streams and send back 9 with an enforcement note.
All the issues have first time and challenged them to cut out waste.
different wastes to our distribution centres.
We are confident that, through this approach, All the businesses support our drive Unfortunately, oil or diesel from spills entered we will recover the cost of our CRC carbon towards sector leading waste management nearby watercourses three times over the year.
credits for the 2011 2012 financial year of performance.
By the end of 2011, we had We continue to provide spill kits to branches approximately 1m, by reducing our electricity introduced the Groups waste management and stores and train colleagues in their use.
facilities from the supply chain to the BSS We have an absolute target of zero incidents, Our vehicle fleet has grown by 50%, to businesses and will be developing this further which we believe is achievable.
The trend in approximately 3,000 commercial vehicles, over 2012.
By the end of 2011, most branches incidents reported over the last five years is Jeanette Wakefi eld at Wickes Rushden 40 21.9 1.0 19.6 1.7 18.0 2.8 18.4 3.1 13.3 5.6 9.0 7.7 4.6 6.8 2.2 Target 5 5 5 10 6 10 4 17 3 21 5 37 26 30 0 Target TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 We have continued to invest in Wickes, taking the opportunity to acquire 13 new stores from the receiver of Focus 41 REPORTS Environment Report for numbers to rise roughly in proportion to the monitoring if we are to retain the confidence branches to recover more pallets from our number of sites from which we operate.
of our certification body and of our customers.
customers, as well as refining our measure of It is our assertion that we remain the multiple packaging use.
We will set out a 2017 target in Reducing water use merchant with the best coverage of product line with our other KPIs once we have achieved 3 In 2011, we used 88m of water per million and branches for chain of custody with every an accurate measure of packaging used.
pounds of adjusted turnover, which is already Travis Perkins branch able to provide evidence.
better, some two years earlier, than our 2013 We are pleased to report a 36% fall in the Product and service innovation 3 target of 132.6 m per million pounds of sales.
number of customer complaints about this About 80% of the contribution that our The 37% reduction on the 2008 baseline year aspect of our service delivery.
Never the less, responsible environmental approach makes was driven through our continuing leakage 18 unhappy customers is unacceptable and in to profit comes from having the right products detection programme.
We will review our data 2012 we will work towards making responsible and services to meet the sustainability needs of and set a new target during 2012. timber supply second nature.
our customers, their customers and the policy frameworks for sustainable construction.
Environmental management system Reducing packaging use We launched our Sustainable Business We remain on track to bring the BSS Group We markedly improved the calculation of Solutions service at the end of 2010 and in companies into the Travis Perkins ISO14001 merchant packaging volume in 2011 by 2011 it incorporates a detailed set of solutions Environmental Management System Certificate switching from category level estimates to that provide the right level of help, support and in 2012. measured data, thereby reducing our estimate expert technical assistance to the construction In 2011, the Travis Perkins Group had a of packaging used by more than 50%.
Our integrated approach provides 30% equity interest in Toolstation.
Toolstation course of 2012, we will adopt this approach solutions to energy efficient building, renewable data has been included in the report on a in the BSS businesses.
This change in basis energy projects and waste management.
of measurement means it is not easy to In 2011, Travis Perkins Group sold 2 determine meaningful data for any reduction approximately 60km of insulation, had a range Selling responsibly driven by our activities.
of over 14 different types of renewable product Selling timber and timber products The reduction in the intensity of packaging categories and took over 1.3 million in revenue Customers of our general merchanting used has, in the main, been achieved through a from our customer waste management offer.
businesses are increasingly demanding changed product mix following the acquisition Travis Perkins exhibited at Eco build in 2011 evidence that the timber and timber products of the BSS Group.
The product categories and will be there again.
we sell are from well-managed sources.
sold by BSS have very little packaging.
Taking We have continued to develop our internal back significant quantities of pallets from chain of custody procedures and have changed our customers sites is also contributing.
We the way our branches work to improve the estimate we reused or recycled 21,000 tonnes Geoff Cooper provision of evidence.
The way we sell certified of pallets in 2011.
Chief Executive well-managed timber will always require close Over 2012 we will be incentivising our 21 February 2012 Benchmarx sales have increased by over 40% 42
