Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 52 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 53 Governance Governance Corporate Governance report continued a variety of questions and the Directors were able to make additional At the meeting of the Non-Executive Directors in May 2011, the The Chief Financial officer, the Director of Group Audit Services & Nomination Committee comments where appropriate.
appraisal of the Chairman was undertaken.
The Chairman was not Risk and the external auditor are normally invited to meetings and The Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors for the year present for the discussion which was led by the Senior Independent other Directors, including the Chief Executive and the Non-Executive ended 30 September 2011 and is chaired by Sir Michael Hodgkinson The results were collated and the responses were given to the Chairs Director Sir Michael Hodgkinson.
The Audit Committee meets with the the Senior Independent Director Sir Michael Hodgkinson and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and to the external auditor without management present and also meets with Clare Chapman are considered to be independent by the Company.
Chairman of the Board on an anonymous basis.
In September 2011, Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its the Director of Group Audit Services without management present.
Clare Chapman resigned from the Board on 19 October 2011 and the summary reports, analysing the responses by broad category and by Committees current membership is three.
Audit Remuneration Nomination reference to a trafc-light system showing the number of red, amber The Committees duties, which were discharged during the year, include: Board Committee Committee Committee and green scores, were presented to the Board for consideration and No major concerns were raised in the Nomination Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company debate and action points were agreed.
Horst Baier Non-Executive Director 7 7 and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial Dr Volker Bttcher MD Central Europe 7 7 performance and reviewing the significant financial reporting In relation to the appointments of Minnow Powell appointed Independence of Non-Executive Directors Paul Bowtell Chief Financial officer 0 2 judgments contained therein 4 April 2011 and Coline McConville appointed 21 September 2011, The Chairman, Dr Michael Frenzel, did not meet the independence Tony Campbell Non-Executive Director 7 7 12 14 5 5 a description of the roles and required capabilities was prepared prior criteria laid out in the provisions of the Combined Code at the Reviewing the Companys internal control and risk management Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director 5 7 5 5 2 2 to the appointments.
This is because Dr Frenzel is the Chief systems, including presentations from sector, regional and Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director 6 7 13 14 4 5 Executive of TUI AG a 55.47% shareholder of the Company as at Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director 7 7 5 5 2 2 functional management An extensive search of suitable candidates was carried out by an Dr Michael Frenzel Chairman 7 7 5 5 2 2 30 September 2011.
Agreeing in advance the work of Group Audit Services and external agency prior to commencing the interview process and the Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director 2 2 5 7 reviewing the results of the work undertaken balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, how the Board Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are given in Sir Michael Hodgkinson Deputy Chairman works as a unit and the collective knowledge of the Board had been his biography on page 47.
The Chairman does have a number of other Considering the appointment, re-appointment and removal, and Senior Independent Director 7 7 4 4 2 2 taken into consideration when preparing a description of the role and external roles but the Board is satisfied that these do not interfere Peter Long Chief Executive 7 7 approval of remuneration and terms of engagement of the Johan Lundgren Deputy Chief Executive 7 7 the capabilities required.
Consideration was also given to whether with the performance of his duties as Chairman of the Company.
external auditor Coline McConville Non-Executive Director 1 1 the candidates would have sufficient time available to devote to their Reviewing the policy for the engagement of the external auditor Of the other 10 Non-Executive Directors, two are not considered to Minnow Powell Non-Executive Director 3 3 5 5 duties.
The Nomination Committee considered that Minnow Powell to supply non-audit services.
The Audit Committee has concluded be independent Horst Baier is also an Executive Director of TUI AG Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director 7 7 and Coline McConville would make excellent contributions to the that, in some cases, the provision of non-audit services by the and Rainer Feuerhake was a member of TUI AGs Executive Board Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director 7 7 deliberations of the Board and that they met the independence criteria incumbent auditor, which does not impact on their independence Harold Sher Non-Executive Director 6 7 until his resignation in February 2010. laid out in the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director 2 2 5 7 in providing their primary statutory audit role, is appropriate and The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent are Sir Will Waggott Chief Financial officer 7 7 this has been communicated to the Board.
Auditor independence It was felt that Minnow Powells qualications and experience, gained Michael Hodgkinson, Tony Campbell, Bill Dalton, Minnow Powell, and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Committee monitoring over 30 years as an auditor in an international accountancy practice, Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the year in which the Coline McConville, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk and individual was a Board member.
and approving, where appropriate, the nature of the work and the made him an excellent candidate as a Board member and also Harold Sher.
level of fees paid for non-audit services as a proportion of the total Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Clare Chapman was unable to attend two Board meetings due audit fees paid The Board recognises that the UK Corporate Governance Code to clashes with NHS meetings where she was Director General Coline McConvilles educational qualications and operational requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Reviewing and revising the Committees terms of reference of Workforce.
experience in various senior roles over the last 20 years, and as a should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company non-executive director of HBOS, would also enhance the current During the year, the Audit Committee has focused on improving was compliant with provision B1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee skillset of the Board.
key financial controls, processes and procedures.
In the UK & Ireland Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2011.
The Board is See the Remuneration report for full details of the Remuneration Mainstream business, a new senior management team is in place and Two meetings took place during the year one to consider recommending committed to seek to ensure that its membership is refreshed regularly.
Committee, its composition and work during the year.
a review has been completed of critical processes and procedures.
the appointment of Minnow Powell as a Non-Executive Director and Control improvements which have been identied are being Meetings of the Non-Executive Directors Throughout the year, Clare Chapman was Chairman of the the other in respect of Coline McConville.
A meeting to consider implemented and a process of continuous monitoring of these The Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors three times Remuneration Committee she resigned from the Board succession planning in detail for the Board and senior management controls will also be established.
As part of the ongoing work on during the year two meetings in February and one in May 2011. on 19 October 2011 and has been replaced as Chairman of has been scheduled into the corporate calendar for 2011 12. processes and procedures elsewhere in the Group, net write-offs Two meetings have been scheduled for 2012 and others will be the Remuneration Committee by Bill Dalton.
of 7m have been identied arising from the understatement of held as the need arises.
Audit Committee No major concerns were raised in the Remuneration Committee current liabilities in Nouvelles Frontires French tour operator From 1 October 2010 until 31 January 2011, the membership of effectiveness survey.
offset by surplus sundry payables which had not been eliminated the Audit Committee was Jeremy Hicks, Tony Campbell, Bill Dalton from the Group balance sheet.
See Note 4 of the consolidated and Giles Thorley all being independent Non-Executive Directors.
financial statements for further details.
Finally, in the TUI Travel Following the resignation of Jeremy Hicks and Giles Thorley on Marine business an extensive review of back ofce finance processes 31 January 2011, the Committee comprised only two independent Board governance structure has been conducted and control improvements identied are in the Non-Executive Directors whilst an external search process was process of being implemented.
underway to nd replacement Non-Executive Directors.
Tony TUI Travel PLC Campbell undertook the role of Acting Chairman during this period.
Further steps being taken to improve key financial controls and procedures during the year have included the following: On 4 April 2011, Minnow Powell was appointed as a Non-Executive Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee which increased the Close focus on, and investment in, the Financial Control Improvement membership to three.
The Company, therefore, did not comply with Programme established in the UK & Ireland business.
This has Delegated authorities Delegated authorities Delegated authorities the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period 1 February to included the restructuring of financial roles and responsibilities Sets remuneration and incentives for the Executive Ensures that the Board and Committee Monitors the Groups integrity in financial 3 April 2011 as a minimum of three independent Non-Executive Directors and the establishment of a new senior management team Directors: approves and monitors remuneration composition has the optimum balance of skills, reporting and reviews the effectiveness of is required.
Minnow Powell is considered to be independent and the and incentive plans for the Group.
knowledge and experience by nominating suitable the risk management framework.
Introduction of a COSO control framework in the UK & Ireland to Board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience.
candidates for approval by the Board to fill strengthen financial controls as part of an initiative to introduce a executive and non-executive vacancies.
Group-wide COSO compliance framework The Audit Committee met 14 times during the year four of these meetings were specically called to review and approve draft Presentations on financial controls to the Audit Committee from Members Members Members announcements, results and trading statements of the Company.
senior management of major businesses across the Group Bill Dalton Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman Minnow Powell Chairman Three meetings two in October and one in December 2010 Tony Campbell Dr Michael Frenzel Tony Campbell Establishment of documented quarterly self-certication at a were called to discuss financial control issues which resulted in Dr Michael Frenzel Rainer Feuerhake Bill Dalton business unit level to confirm key financial controls are in place Rainer Feuerhake Sir Michael Hodgkinson the restatement of the 2009 financial statements.
and operating as intended www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 54 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 55 Governance Governance Corporate Governance report continued Establishment of a Group Finance Compliance team to verify the The Group Audit Services function reviews independently the announcement of the interim and preliminary results, details of which, Anti-bribery and corruption self-certication returns and support the various businesses in existence and adequacy of controls implemented by management together with the Groups financial reports and other announcements, The TUI Travel Group Code of Conduct the Code, which was first strengthening financial control and reports its findings regularly to the Audit Committee can be accessed via the Groups website www.
published in August 2008, made it clear that the Group will not tolerate any type of corruption or bribery whether public, private, Review of the numbers and quality of financial management across The Audit Committee reviews the proposed work plans of the The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Senior active or passive.
the Group supported by an external consultancy company and the Group Audit Services function, reports issued by Group Audit Independent Director meets with a range of major shareholders to establishment of a finance academy as part of a continuing Services, progress made on addressing findings arising from gain an understanding of their views.
Both Sir Michael Hodgkinson The Groups policy was further amplied in July 2011 when a detailed commitment to competence these reports, as well as reports on systems and controls from Senior Independent Director and Clare Chapman Chairman of the policy on procedures for the prevention of bribery and corruption the external auditor covering material weaknesses.
The Chairman Establishment of a Finance Auditable Universe to ensure that Remuneration Committee met with major shareholders during the the Anti-Bribery Policy was issued to all employees worldwide and of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of decisions as to what should be audited are taken in the context course of the year.
posted on the Group intranet to take account of the provisions of the the Audit Committee meetings held and the Board receives the of a complete knowledge of what could be audited Bribery Act 2010.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson met with several major shareholders in January minutes of all such meetings Improved monitoring of the timely closure of audit recommendations 2011.
Discussions covered the restatement of the 2009 accounts, the Great importance is attached to adherence with the Anti-Bribery The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign selection of  LLP as the new auditor and the Policy and, therefore, extensive training is taking place throughout exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in Audit Committee effectiveness review process for appointing a new Chair of the Audit Committee.
This training is delivered by a combination of internet accordance with policies appropriate for each Sector and is the At the meeting of the Board in September 2011, the points raised as a exercises and interactive presentations which often make use of responsibility of the Chief Financial officer and Group Treasurer Clare Chapman met with one of our major shareholders in June 2011. result of the review were considered in detail and action points agreed.
a specially-produced in-house lm using professional actors.
The The meeting was arranged at Clares invitation following her discussion Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity lm tracks a fictitious hotel construction and contracting project with investors at the AGM which was held in February 2011.
The meeting Internal control and risk analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review in a Mediterranean country and is designed to be paused at various was a general exchange of views and covered a number of issues The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of by the GMB and the Board.
These forecasts also include details points to provide interactive discussion.
It has proven to be far more which were fed back to the Committee.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of the Groups ongoing compliance with its regulatory and memorable than more conventional slide presentations.
of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
banking requirements There is an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman To date, training has been received by the Board, the GMB, the The systems of internal control and risk management have been The Group has established investment appraisal and authorisation and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration GRMC, most of the Sector Boards and all in-house counsel.
Training developed to ensure compliance with the UK Corporate Governance procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed against budgets and Nomination Committees at the AGM.
The AGM also provides continues to cascade down to all relevant managers and to other Code on internal control and risk management.
which have been approved by the Board a forum for the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the views of colleagues whose roles make it particularly important for them to shareholders with them directly.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where understand the law and the Anti-Bribery Policy.
Company to the Chief Executive and, through him, to the other necessary to remedy any deficiencies identied through the Groups In respect of general meetings of the Company: Executive Directors and the Group Management Board GMB.
The internal control and risk management processes.
Whistle-blowing The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather There are policies and procedures for the reporting by employees separate issue and does not combine resolutions together than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In Group Risk Management Committee GRMC and the resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
It is the policy of inappropriately pursuing these objectives, internal controls which include financial, The GRMC is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises members the Group to employ staff and management of high integrity, to train operational and compliance controls and risk management can only Proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to of the GMB, the Director of Group Audit Services & Risk, the Director them appropriately and to require compliance with all relevant laws, provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material vote for, against or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form makes it of Financial Control and the Chief Information officer.
Meetings of regulations and internal policies.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted the GRMC are held at least twice a year and membership is For all employees on a UK contract approximately 18,000, and for of internal controls during the year.
All postal proxy votes are returned to Equiniti the Companys almost 6,000 German colleagues together representing approximately Registrar which is responsible to for ensuring votes are properly The Board confirms that: The GRMCs core duties are to assist the Board in fullling its 50% of all employees across the Group, condential employee received and counted responsibilities through: hotlines are in place using third party providers.
Employees can There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Proxy counts are displayed at the close of the AGM and the results make condential reports about any issues they would like to raise.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group Providing an oversight of the framework for managing risk posted on the Companys website www.
com following This has been in place for the year under review and up to the throughout the Group Plans are in place to make whistle-blowing hotlines available, where the closure of the meeting date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts the law permits, to all Group employees by the end of the calendar Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management The Annual Report & Accounts is laid before shareholders at the AGM year 2012.
However, irrespective of whether hotlines are available, The process is regularly reviewed by the Board framework and internal control systems for managing risk all employees are aware of the provisions in the TUI Travel Code of The process accords with the UK Corporate Governance Code Determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the UK Corporate Governance Code Provisions Conduct the Code which encourages them to report any lack of Group is willing to take For the reasons disclosed within this Annual Report, during the year The key elements of the existing control framework and review compliance with the Code to their immediate supervisor or other the Company did not fully comply with the following provisions: Monitoring performance and changes in the Group risk prole processes in place across the Group are as follows: suitable Group function.
The Code makes it clear that nobody who Identifying the most significant risks to the Group and agreeing Code Provision A2.2.
The Chairman should on appointment meet provides information with honest intentions need fear any adverse The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
The responsibility for appropriate mitigating strategies the independence criteria set out in Code A3.1 see page 52 consequences, even if the information proves to be unfounded.
GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives into their Code Provision B2.1.
The majority of members of the Nomination operational and financial business plans The operators of hotlines report calls to nominated recipients in the Enterprise-wide risk management ERM Committee should be independent Non-Executive Directors Sir Group Audit Services Department who review these and investigate The GMB meets regularly together with other senior executives to The objective of the framework is to improve operational performance, Michael Hodgkinson and Clare Chapman are considered to be them as appropriate.
In the financial year a total of 34 calls were consider Group operational and financial performance and business reduce losses and to protect and enhance shareholder value in the independent but Dr Michael Frenzel and Rainer Feuerhake are not made, the majority of which resulted in internal investigations.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf pursuit of the Groups strategic goals.
for the reasons given on page 52 its regular report to the Audit Committee, Group Audit Services of the GMB on significant changes in the business and the external The Group considers four types of risk when identifying potential Code Provision C3.1.
The Board should establish an Audit provides a summary of any condential reports received and actions environment.
The Chief Financial officer provides the Board with events that could affect the delivery of business objectives and Committee of at least three or, in the case of smaller companies, taken.
A monthly report is also produced which includes a summary financial information which includes key performance and risk indicators strategic goals.
Risks are considered in the context of longer term two independent Non-Executive Directors see page 53 of all calls received highlighting any issues raised.
The Group operates an enterprise-wide risk management ERM strategic and emerging threats: medium term challenges associated Code Provision D2.1.
If the Company Chairman is a member of the process which is integrated within the short and long term business with business change programmes: shorter term risks triggered by Communication with shareholders Remuneration Committee, he must be considered independent on planning processes see below changes in the external and regulatory environment: and shorter The Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and members of appointment see page 52 The Board believes that, in order to be effective, risk management term risks in relation to internal operations and control.
the Investor Relations team hold regular meetings with major processes must be driven down to each operating unit.
Accordingly, shareholders to review the Groups performance and prospects.
There is regular reporting to the Board through the Audit Committee each Sector Board now addresses risk management as a standing The views of shareholders are communicated to all members of on key ERM activities undertaken by Group Risk Management and the Andrew John agenda item and is responsible for ensuring that the risks facing the Board following such meetings.
During the course of these status of the risk management process.
Company Secretary that Sectors businesses are identied and that related action plans meetings the issue of governance is discussed.
Presentations to 4 December 2011 are implemented major shareholders are made at least twice yearly, after the www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 56 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 57 Governance Governance Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee the Committee formulates and Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during The Group has performance-related reward policies.
These In accordance with a decision taken by the Committee based upon applies the Company policy with consideration to the prevailing the year by: are designed to provide the appropriate balance between xed the economic climate, Executive Directors base salaries were not economic climate in the major economies within which the Group remuneration and variable at-risk reward which is linked to increased at the normal annual review in October 2009, October 2010 Deloitte LLP Deloitte operates and within the spirit of its core values which cultivate the performance of both the Group and the individual.
However, to reect performance and promotion Herbert Smith LLP Herbert Smith responsible leadership in the external and internal social environment.
performance-related measures are chosen carefully to ensure during the year, the Committee does anticipate undertaking a review Peter Long Chief Executive Consequently the Committee closely considers the Companys a strong link between reward and true underlying financial for selected Directors prior to 31 December 2011.
Bill Logan Advisor to the GMB performance in building both shareholder value and a secure future performance.
Individual performance is measured through an Jacky Simmonds Group Human Resources Director Benets are provided to Executive Directors in accordance with the for all stakeholders.
assessment of comprehensive business unit deliverables, modelling David House Group Reward Director practice applying to other executives in their geographic location.
the Groups values and the achievement of specic objectives.
At a This report has been prepared by the Committee and has been Jacky Simmonds has direct access to the Chairman of the Committee minimum, the individual performance of the Executive Directors is approved by the Board.
It complies with Schedule 8 of the Large Annual performance bonus and, together with David House, they advised the Committee on all assessed on an annual basis.
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Within the Annual Bonus Plan, challenging performance goals are set aspects of the Groups reward policies and structures during the year, Regulations 2008.
This report will be presented to shareholders In assessing levels of pay and benets, TUI Travel compares the and these must be achieved before the maximum bonus becomes ensuring a greater balance between payment relating to control as for approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on packages offered by different groups of comparator companies.
Below a set threshold level no bonus is payable and, at a well as performance.
Peter Long attends meetings of the Committee 7 February 2012.
These groups are chosen having regard to: target level, half of the maximum is payable.
To exceed the threshold to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration level, performance of at least 90% of the level required for the target of his direct reports and Andrew John Company Secretary acts as Financial size turnover, profits and market capitalisation Remuneration Committee award is required.
The Annual Bonus Plan measures are weighted Secretary to the Committee.
Peter Long, Jacky Simmonds and Andrew Scale of business the number of people employed During the year, the Committee comprised the following heavily to the Groups financial performance and the balance to John are not in attendance when their own remuneration is considered.
Non-Executive Directors: Diversity and complexity of businesses personal objectives.
The maximum bonus opportunity for each Deloitte, an external consultancy organisation, provided independent Executive Director varies by individual.
The range is 120% to 175% Geographical spread of businesses Clare Chapman Chairman advice on all aspects of senior management remuneration.
Deloitte of annual base salary.
The chart below provides further detail in Tony Campbell Industry type also provides salary benchmarking information and tax services to the respect of the bonus measures and weightings for the current year.
Bill Dalton Relevance as: Group from time-to-time and verication of the relative performance Dr Michael Frenzel a potential source for candidates for roles within the Group: and conditions attached to the Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Rainer Feuerhake a potential threat in respect of attracting TUI Travel executives.
Full year profit and cash flow measure Annual Bonus Scheme DABS.
Cash headroom at the cycle low point Three of the members of the Committee are independent NonExternal consultants are used to advise the Committee on the Herbert Smith LLP advised on various legal issues relating to the Personal strategic objectives Executive Directors.
Dr Michael Frenzel and Rainer Feuerhake are structure and level of pay and benets in TUI Travels markets.
Companys share schemes and also provides other legal services to not considered by the Company to be independent.
The normal policy for Executive Directors is that, using target a member of the Executive Board of TUI AG and Rainer Feuerhake or expected value calculations, long term performance drives was a member of TUI AGs Executive Board until his resignation in Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 60% of total annual remuneration excluding benets and the February 2010.
TUI AG is a 55.47% 50.83% on a fully-diluted basis Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service total proportion of performance-related remuneration including shareholder of TUI Travel PLC as at 30 September 2011 and their contracts and do not participate in the Groups pension scheme, annual bonus is 70% as shown in the chart below.
appointments are pursuant to the Relationship Agreement between annual bonus scheme or long term incentive schemes.
Non-Executive Long term incentives TUI AG and the Company.
Directors have second term letters of appointment which can be Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme Clare Chapman resigned from the Board on 19 October 2011 and terminated by either party serving three months notice with the Fixed remuneration All Executive Directors participate in the DABS which requires a Bill Dalton has been appointed Chairman of the Remuneration exception of Horst Baier whose initial appointment letter has not Annual incentive minimum of 25% and a maximum of 50% of any annual performance Committee in her place.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson was also appointed yet expired and, in common with all initial term letters, provides for Long term incentive bonus award to be deferred into share-based awards.
Matching as an additional member of the Committee on 19 October 2011 and six months notice.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK share-based awards may also be made up to four times the deferred Coline McConville was appointed to the Committee on 2 December 2011.
Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will be subject to re-election amount and are subject to the achievement of stretching performance at the AGM to be held on 7 February 2012.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, conditions over a three-year period.
Awards of deferred and matching other than as a shareholder as disclosed in the interests in shares Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is approved by the share-based awards are subject to forfeiture conditions until the table on page 65, in the matters to be decided by the Committee.
Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors, having release date.
The earliest point at which the shares are eligible The three independent members of the Committee have no conicts taken account of the fees paid in other companies of a similar The main components of remuneration in the Company are: for release is at the end of three years following deferral.
Before of interest arising from Committee members cross-directorships complexity and the skills and experience of the individuals.
The base 1 October 2011 awards consist of conditional shares and it is intended Fixed remuneration and none of the members of the Committee participate in any fee for the Non-Executive Directors is 55,000 but the Chairman that awards made after 1 October 2011 will consist of nil cost options.
base salary bonus schemes, pension plans, share awards or any employee share and Deputy Chairman who is also the Senior Independent Director benets For awards of matching shares made during the year, no shares will schemes in respect of the Company.
Members of the Committee are paid higher fees to reect their additional responsibilities.
The pension contribution vest unless the annual average of the ratio of the Groups return have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the Company.
Chairman receives a fee of 300,000 and the Deputy Chairman on invested capital ROIC to the weighted average cost of capital Performance-related remuneration receives a fee of 200,000.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and The Committee met five times during the year.
Bill Dalton was unable WACC meets or exceeds one over the three-year period.
A hurdle annual bonus the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive an additional to attend on one occasion due to prior commitments.
of ROIC, being at least equal to WACC, is used to ensure that the long term incentives fee of 15,000 and 10,000 respectively.
relevant long term incentive awards pay out only when shareholder The Committee advises the Board on overall remuneration policy.
value is being created over the performance periods.
If the ROIC Base salary The Committee also determines, on behalf of the Board, and with Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors and WACC hurdle is met, shares will only vest to the extent to which two The salary for each Executive Director is based on individual the benefit of advice from external consultants and members of the senior executives further performance conditions are satisfied over the three-year performance and on information from independent professional Human Resources Department, the remuneration of the Executive The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration packages are period as follows: sources on the salary levels for similar jobs in groups of comparable Directors and other members of the Group Management Board offered which: companies.
This approach is consistent with that used to determine GMB.
The activities of the Committee are governed by its Terms Set the total remuneration package at an appropriate level to salary and benefit levels for all employees within the Group.
Internal of Reference, which have been approved by the Board and can be reect the competitive market in which the Group operates relativities and salary levels in the wider employment market are also found on the TUI Travel website at www.
Link a substantial proportion of the total remuneration package taken into account.
to the achievement of demanding financial performance targets Structure the reward of senior management to align their interests with those of the shareholders over the long term Reinforce the high performance culture throughout the Group www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 58 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 59 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued Up to three quarters of the matching shares will vest based on Awards under the PSP lapse if the performance conditions are not met.
Policy on external appointments Contracts of service growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS, before amortisation The Company recognises that its Directors may be invited to become Executive Directors The DABS and PSP schemes have been amended.
Going forward, of goodwill and merger intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-executive directors of other companies and that those such The Remuneration Committees policy is for Executive Directors to rewards to employees will be more closely aligned with their separately disclosed items, in relation to the growth in the UK appointments can broaden experience and knowledge and benefit the have rolling contracts with a 12-month notice period.
contribution to the performance of the Group.
For future awards Retail Price Index RPI as shown in the table below: business.
Subject to the approval of the Board, Executive Directors under both the DABS and PSP schemes it is intended that: Volker Bttcher, Peter Long, Johan Lundgren and William Waggott are, therefore, allowed to accept non-executive appointments and Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth Proportion of matching shares vesting currently have service agreements with a 12-month notice period and Up to half of the nil cost options over shares will become to retain the fees received excluding positions where the Director Below 4% 0% it is intended that all new appointments will also have 12-month notice exercisable based on growth in the Groups EPS as reported is appointed as the Companys representative as long as this is not Between 4% and 13% On a straight line basis periods.
However, on occasion, to complete an external recruitment in relation to the growth in the UK RPI.
The level of growth likely to lead to a conict of interest.
between 10% and 100% successfully, a longer initial period may be used reducing to 12 months, required will remain unchanged 13% or above 100% For the year ended 30 September 2011, Peter Long received and following guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Up to one quarter of the nil cost options over shares will become retained non-executive directors fees in respect of an appointment Up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on the exercisable based on the Groups TSR performance relative to an No provisions for compensation for termination following change with Rentokil Initial plc FTSE 100 of 75,000 2010: 75,000.
Groups ranking of total shareholder return TSR performance index of 23 international travel and leisure companies see opposite of control, or for liquidated damages of any kind, are included in the For the period 1 October 2010 to 31 December 2010, Paul Bowtell relative to companies ranked 30th to 100th by market capitalisation for constituents as shown in the table below: current Directors contracts.
In the event of any early termination received and retained non-executive director fees in respect of his as at the date of the award as shown in the table below: of an Executive Directors contract, the policy is to seek to minimise TSR per annum Proportion of nil cost options exercisable two appointments Capita Group Plc FTSE 100 and SThree plc TSR Ranking Proportion of matching shares vesting any liability.
Executive Director Effective date of contract Notice period Between index and index 8% On a straight line basis Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 15% and 100% Dr Volker Bttcher 5 September 2007 12 between 15% and 100% Performance graph At or above index 8% 100% Peter Long 19 February 2008 12 At or above upper quartile 100% TUI Travel PLC shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange Johan Lundgren 20 March 2009 12 Up to one quarter of the nil cost options over shares will become on 3 September 2007.
From December 2007 until June 2011, the William Waggott 22 April 2008 12 Matching share awards lapse if the performance conditions are exercisable based on the improvement in the Groups ROIC over Company was a member of the FTSE 100 Index.
the performance period as determined by the Committee prior measures the performance of First Choice Holidays PLC up to the Non-Executive Directors to each award merger, and subsequently the performance of TUI Travel PLC, assuming Performance Share Plan Non-Executive Director Effective date of appointment Notice period dividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved The PSP allows Executive Directors and eligible participants Horst Baier 13 October 2009 6 All-employee share schemes against an index of 23 international travel and leisure companies.
The to receive share-based awards, subject to the satisfaction of Tony Campbell 3 September 2010 3 Executive Directors based in the UK are eligible to participate in latter index is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for performance conditions set by the Committee, which are normally Clare Chapman 3 September 2010 3 the HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee comparison purposes and will in future be used within the performance measured over a three-year period.
Once vested, PSP share-based Bill Dalton 3 September 2010 3 share scheme enabling staff to acquire shares in the Company on measures of the Companys long term incentive schemes.
awards are subject to forfeiture conditions until the release date.
Rainer Feuerhake 3 September 2010 3 preferential terms.
To further encourage employee shareholding in The earliest point at which the shares are eligible for release is the The constituents of the index are: Dr Michael Frenzel 3 September 2010 3 the Company, the Share Incentive Plan provides a matching share for third anniversary of the award date.
Before 1 October 2011 awards Sir Michael Hodgkinson 3 September 2010 3 Aer Lingus Group Finnair Priceline.
com every four shares bought by a participant under the plan.
Matching consist of conditional shares and it is intended that awards made Coline McConville 21 September 2011 3 Air Berlin FirstGroup Royal Caribbean Cruises shares are not subject to performance conditions.
after 1 October 2011 will consist of nil cost options.
Minnow Powell 4 April 2011 3 Air France-KLM Flight Centre Ryanair Holdings Dr Erhard Shipporeit 29 October 2010 3 Carnival Hertz Global Holdings Stagecoach Group Shareholding guidelines For awards made during the year, no shares will vest unless the Dr Albert Schunk 29 October 2010 3 Club Mediterranee Kuoni Reisen R Thomas Cook Group The Executive Directors will be expected to build, within five years of annual average of the ratio of the Groups ROIC to the WACC Harold Sher 29 October 2010 3 Deutsche Lufthansa National Express TUI Travel their appointment, and then maintain, a shareholding equal in value to meets or exceeds one over the three-year period.
If the ROIC WACC easyJet Norwegian Air Shuttle Wotif.
com Holdings 1.5 times their basic salary or two times in the case of the Chief Executive.
hurdle is met, shares will only vest to the extent to which two further The information provided in the following pages of this report has Expedia Pierre & Vacances performance conditions are satisfied over the three-year period No new shares were issued during the year and therefore the been audited by  LLP.
as follows: Company has remained within its headroom limits for the issue of new shares under share incentive schemes.
All share incentive awards Up to half of the shares will vest based on growth in the Groups made, and all future share incentive awards, will normally be settled EPS, before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill with shares purchased in the market.
impairment and separately disclosed items, in relation to the growth in the UK RPI as shown in the table below: TUI Travel PLC Policy on pensions Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI growth Proportion of shares vesting 200 Each of the UK-based Executive Directors and senior executives Total Shareholder Return TUI Travel PLC shares Below 4% 0% participates in a dened contribution retirement or long term listed 03 Sept 2007 Between 4% and 13% On a straight line basis investment scheme.
between 10% and 100% The Groups pension policy is that, in the event that a participant 13% or above 100% 150 in a registered pension scheme may reach or exceed HMRC lifetime Up to half of the matching shares will vest based on the Groups or annual thresholds, and therefore chooses not to accept further ranking of TSR performance relative to companies ranked 30th to registered pension contributions, a contribution to an unregistered 100th by market capitalisation as at the date of the award as shown long term investment scheme or a non-pensionable cash payment, 100 in the table below: equivalent to the Groups contribution to the registered pension TSR Ranking Proportion of matching shares vesting scheme, will be offered in lieu.
Pension scheme participants will not be compensated for any adverse tax consequences of exceeding the Below median 0% HMRC lifetime allowance limit.
50 Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis TUI Travel PLC between 15% and 100% Executive Directors, and senior executives outside of the UK, FTSE 100 At or above upper quartile 100% participate in local pension plans.
FTSE 250 International Travel and Leisure Group 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept Source: Datastream 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 www.
