Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 44 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 45 Business and financial review Business and financial review Current trading and outlook In Canada we are continuing to experience strong In France, as previously stated, we have initiated a Winter 2011 12 Summer 2012 growth in demand and bookings are currently up project to consolidate the tourism businesses with We are satisfied overall with the progress of trading It is still early in the bookings cycle for Summer 34%.
Capacity has been expanded to destinations the aim of creating a single French business with a for Winter 2011 12.
Bookings have slowed since our 2012, with most source markets outside of the in Mexico and the Caribbean, with sales performing long term viable future.
Initial meetings with Works previous update in some source markets where, Northern Region launching their main edition particularly well into the RIU hotel portfolio.
We are Council and local employees have taken place and as expected, we are experiencing a later booking brochures in December.
the merger is progressing as anticipated.
prole, reecting the continuing issues in North In the UK we have currently sold 19% of the Africa and challenging consumer environment in In the Nordic region capacity has been increased, In addition, for clarity purposes, we will from now programme.
Bookings are 11% lower than prior these markets.
with the expansion to destinations such as the on combine the turnaround and cost efficiencies year, partly reecting a reduction in capacity, which Bookings Canaries, Cape Verde and Mexico.
This has been targets together under a new business improvement is currently down 9%.
Average selling price is up since facilitated by the arrival of two Boeing 767s from programme.
9%, partly reecting cost ination of approximately Cumulative previous Cumulative the UK replacing a Boeing 747 which came from Year on year customer bookings trading bookings 5% and the higher proportion of differentiated In light of the above, we have reassessed our target booking variation % at 11 Sept statement at 27 Nov Corsair who have now reduced their eet and products sold, which currently account for 65% from the remainder of 78m and now expect increased third party capacity.
Volumes left to sell UK -11 -12 -12 of sales, up eight percentage points on prior year.
incremental profits and cost savings of 107m, are currently 10% higher than prior year and our Nordic region 1 flat flat to be delivered in broadly even tranches over the The Nordic region programme was launched on booked load factor is 73%.
Volumes overall are Germany -3 -10 -8 next three years.
20 October 2011 and as such, it is very early in at, although within this sales to Thailand are France tour operators -7 -14 -12 the bookings cycle, with only 12% sold to date.
particularly difficult due to the ooding in and Belgium 2 3 2 Outlook around Bangkok, while other destinations such Netherlands 31 7 15 Fuel foreign exchange As with the rest of the travel and aviation industry, as the Canaries are selling well.
We have the We have hedged the majority of our fuel and we continue to operate in a challenging geopolitical In the UK capacity has been reduced by 9%.
This is exibility to switch capacity between destinations currency requirements for the seasons currently and economic environment which is demonstrated as a result of a change in aircraft eet mix, including if appropriate.
Differentiated volumes continue on sale.
The following table shows the percentage by the later booking prole that we are seeing in moving aircraft within the Group to serve higher to grow with volumes up 31% on prior year.
of our forecast requirement that is currently some source markets.
We have adjusted our Winter demand in the Canadian and Nordic markets.
Most hedged for Euros, US Dollars and jet fuel.
We have In Germany, capacity has been reduced by capacities to reect the current market conditions of the capacity reduction has come out of Egypt previously stated that fuel costs are expected to 11%, driven by lower demand for North African and are trading in line with our expectations.
Booked load factor remains broadly in rise by circa 30% in 2012. destinations.
Bookings to Egypt are currently Summer capacities will be exed to match line with prior year, at 48%.
Volumes sold since our 39% behind prior year which is in line with capacity profitable demand.
Winter Summer last update are down 12%, highlighting the later 2011 12 2012 reductions.
This is partly offset by demand for booking prole compared with prior year.
This slow We remain focused on our strategy of increasing alternative destinations such as the Canaries Euro 98% 92% down is being driven by the continuing issues in the proportion of sales of differentiated and up 12%.
Booked load factor is 53% and average US Dollars 92% 80% North Africa and a weaker consumer environment.
exclusive product, and on increasing controlled selling prices are up 5%.
Jet fuel 91% 78% Average selling prices are up 5% which partly distribution with a focus on online to enhance reects cost ination of approximately 4%, as well The French tour operators continue to experience As at 1 December 2011. our customer access and reduce distribution as the higher proportion of differentiated product lower demand for North African destinations, with costs.
Through our new business improvement Business improvement programme sales.
Differentiated product continues to book volumes down 26% for Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco.
programme we have self help measures in place We announced at the start of the year that we earlier and experience higher demand, with In addition, there is a trend towards later bookings, to help offset the difficult macro-economic expected to deliver a further 89m through our volumes up 12% compared with last year.
driven by the consumer environment.
However, environment, including clear plans in place for turnaround programme across our Mainstream thanks to the planned merger, capacities are shared Germany and France.
In addition, we continue businesses, and a further 40m of cost savings and and managed across the French tour operators, so to strengthen our cash ow in order to fund the 1 efficiencies in the UK Mainstream business and that load factors for the first half of Winter are in dividend and growth.
All of which means that, even Current trading Group, over a three year period.
We have delivered Winter 2011 12 Risk only line with prior year.
in the current challenging market conditions, we 42m of turnaround savings including 12m over Total Total Total continue to operate from a position of strength.
2 2 2 3 3 In Belgium, bookings are 2% ahead of last year AS Year on year variation % P sales customers Capacity Left to sell delivered in Canada and 21m of cost savings and load factors are broadly in line.
The increase during 2011, leaving a remainder of 78m.
Mainstream in volume continues to be driven by seat only and UK 5 -7 -12 -9 -6 Our German Mainstream business recently through an increase in long haul sales as we open 1 Nordic region 1 1 flat 3 12 Current trading announced plans to implement a cost reduction up new destinations such as Thailand.
In the Summer 2012 Risk only Northern Region 4 -4 -7 and growth programme, GET 2015, through which Netherlands our strong trading performance in Total Total Total it expects to improve margins.
This will be achieved Germany 5 -3 -8 -11 -3 2 2 2 3 3 Summer 2011 has continued into Winter 2011 12, AS Year on year variation % P sales customers Capacity Left to sell via increased focus on differentiated and exclusive Austria 3 -6 -9 with volumes up 15% and average selling price up UK 9 -3 -11 -9 -8 product, increasing our online business through Switzerland -16 -17 -1 8%.
An increase in capacity, mainly as a result of Nordic region 5 -9 -14 1 3 significant website developments and back ofce Poland 10 49 36 eet expansion, has helped us continue to build Northern Region 8 -4 -11 restructuring.
These actions will take place Central Europe 4 -3 -7 on our market leading position.
alongside previously announced initiatives to 1 These statistics are up to 27 November 2011.
France tour operators -1 -12 -11 In Specialist & Activity revenue is up 7% year on replace outdated IT systems, which will drive 2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
Belgium flat 3 3 year, with growth achieved in all divisions except cost reductions.
3 These statistics include all risk capacity programmes.
Netherlands 8 24 15 Adventure, which continues to be affected by Western Europe 2 2 1 lower demand for North Africa.
Education and North American Specialist are performing well.
Specialist & Activity n a 7 n a 4 Accommodation & Destinations 4 21 16 In A&D bookings are up 15% versus last year, 1 These statistics are up to 27 November 2011. driven by the B2B division, where bookings are 2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk.
Bookings for the B2C division are up 4%, following strong growth in 2010.
We have now 3 These statistics include all risk capacity programmes.
com website in five 4 These statistics refer to online accommodation businesses only: sales refer to total transaction value and customers refers to roomnights.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 46 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 47 Governance Governance Mainstream Sector which includes source markets, UK Services AEGIS, AEGIS Managing Agency Limited UK, 1.
Dr Michael Frenzel Board of Directors and Ireland, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and HSBC North America Holding Inc, Talisman Energy Inc Non-Executive Chairman Age 64 Finland.
Prior to the merger of First Choice Holidays PLC and US Cold Storage Inc. Dr Michael Frenzel joined the Board of TUI Travel and the Tourism Division of TUI AG, Johan was Chief PLC on 28 June 2007 as Non-Executive Chairman.
Rainer Feuerhake Executive of TUI Nordic and also took responsibility for Michael studied law at Ruhr University in Bochum and Non-Executive Director Age 67 tourism sales in the source markets of Italy and Russia.
completed his doctorate whilst working at the university Rainer Feuerhake joined the Preussag Group now as a scientific assistant.
Dr Volker Bttcher TUI AG in 1968 and by 1980 was responsible for group Landesbank WestLB, Dsseldorf, in 1981 where 1.
Managing Director, Central Europe Age 52 accounting.
Rainer was appointed as Chief Financial he was promoted to various managerial positions Dr Volker Bttcher joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC officer of Preussag AG in November 1988 and and became manager of the Industrial Holdings on 19 June 2007 and is responsible for Central Europe subsequently TUI AG following a resolution to rename Department in 1983 and overall manager of WestLBs in the Mainstream Sector.
After an early career in law, Preussag AG on 1 July 2002.
In this position Rainer Equity Holdings Division in 1985 including holdings Volker joined Touristik Union International in 1987 as was responsible for the departments of Accounting in banking, leasing and real estate.
Having occupied various management & Reporting, Finance, Investor Relations, Tax Affairs, In 1988, he became a member of the Preussag AG positions, he became head of TUIs Special Programmes Mergers & Acquisitions, Destination Management executive board, being responsible for Trading and Division in 1996 which included responsibility for and the Shared Service Centre.
He resigned as Chief Logistics.
Michael has held the position of Chief long haul destinations, city tours and the Eastern Financial officer in February 2010 and is now acting Executive and Chairman of the Executive Board of Mediterranean.
In 2003 Volker was appointed Chairman as a consultant for TUI AG.
He joined the Board of TUI AG formerly Preussag AG since January 1994, for Central Europe for TUI AG, being responsible for all TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007. overseeing its extensive acquisition programme in the tourism activities in the source markets of Germany, 12.
Harold Sher late 1990s, which resulted in the acquisitions of TUI AGs Austria, Switzerland and Poland.
Non-Executive Director Age 64 stake in Hapag-Lloyd and of leading tourism businesses the Board of TUI Deutschland GmbH in April 2000.
Harold Sher joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC as such as Thomson Travel and Nouvelles Frontires.
Following the restructuring of TUIs business model in a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007.
He Michael is also currently a member of the supervisory Germany, he was appointed CEO of TUI Deutschland studied commerce at university and started his career board of a number of companies including AXA Konzern GmbH in July 2001. as a Chartered Accountant.
Harold moved to industry AG, AWD Holding AG and Volkswagen AG.
Horst Baier early in his career holding a range of executive positions 2.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Director Age 55 before being appointed Chief Executive of Amalgamated Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Horst Baier joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC as Metal Corporation PLC in 1992, a position he still holds.
Independent Director Age 67 a Non-Executive Director on 13 October 2009.
He He has served as president of a major North American Sir Michael Hodgkinson joined the Board of First Choice commenced his professional career in the Treasury Steel Services Group and, together with his role at Holidays PLC as a Non-Executive Director in January Department of Continental AG, the German tyre Amalgamated Metal Corporation, this has provided 2004 and became Chairman in March 2004.
Between 1994 and 1996 Horst was him with broad international commercial experience.
9. the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007 as responsible for Group Financing for the Frth-based 13.
Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and is the Senior Schickedanz Group.
In 1996, he took over responsibility Non-Executive Director Aged 70 Independent Director.
Following an early career in the for the Treasury, Accounting and Tax Department at Dr Albert Schunk joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC automotive industry, he was appointed Chief Executive TUI AG.
Since 2001, Horst has been responsible for as a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007. of Grand Metropolitans European Food Division in 1986 Accounting & Reporting for TUI AG and, in November Albert studied economics at university and carried out and in 1992 he joined BAA plc, becoming Chief Executive 2007, was appointed to the Executive Board of TUI AG a research project for the German Government in Latin in 1999, a post from which he retired in June 2003. with responsibility for the Controlling function.
After joining IG-Metall, he has served on the February 2010, Horst was appointed Chief Financial Sir Michael was Senior Non-Executive Director at supervisory board of Volkswagen and other German officer of TUI AG.
Royal Mail and Chairman of Post Ofce Limited until Companies since 1976.
In 1994 he became a member of September 2007, a director of Bank of Ireland plc from 8.
Tony Campbell the European Economic and Social Council in Brussels May 2004 until July 2006 and a non-executive director Non-Executive Director Age 62 and has recently been advising the Riu Group in Spain.
of Dublin Airport until November 2011.
He is currently Tony Campbell became a Non-Executive Director 10.
12. a non-executive director of Transport for London and 14.
Dr Erhard Schipporeit of First Choice Holidays PLC in April 1997 and joined Crossrail Limited and was appointed Chairman of Keolis Non-Executive Director Age 62 the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007 as a UK Limited on 11 October 2011.
Dr Erhard Schipporeit joined the Board of TUI Travel Non-Executive Director.
Tony was Deputy Chief PLC as a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007.
Executive of Asda Stores Limited until March 2001.
Peter Long He started his career in 1979 in the Bosch Group and is currently the Chairman of T M Lewin Group Limited, Chief Executive Age 59 in 1981 he joined VARTA AG VARTA Battery AG, at The White Company UK Limited and EAT Limited, a Peter Long joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on that time a leading European battery company, where non-executive director of The Original Factory Shop and 28 June 2007 as Chief Executive.
In November 1996 he became Chief Financial officer in 1990 and Chief a director of Data Transfer & Communications Limited.
he was appointed Group Managing Director of First Executive and Chairman of the Executive Board in 1993.
Choice Holidays PLC and became Chief Executive in 9.
Clare Chapman After the successful restructuring of VARTA the next September 1999.
Prior to joining First Choice, he was Non-Executive Director Age 51 move in his career brought him to the Munich based Chief Executive of Sunworld Holidays.
Clare Chapman became a Non-Executive Director of conglomerate company VIAG AG as CFO.
VIAG merged First Choice Holidays PLC First Choice in March 2003. in 2000 with VEBA AG to form the new E. ON AG, one 13.
From February 2001 to June 2005 Peter was a She joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC which was of the worlds leading utility companies.
Erhard was non-executive director of RAC plc, and from April formed when First Choice merged with the Tourism CFO and Executive Board Member of E. ON from 2000 2006 to July 2009 he was a non-executive director of Division of TUI AG in September 2007.
Clare was also until his resignation in November 2006.
He is currently Debenhams plc.
Peter was appointed as a non-executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She is a non-executive director of a number of companies director of Rentokil Initial Plc in 2005 and is currently currently Group People Director at BT Group PLC and including SAP AG, Deutsche Boerse AG, Talanx AG, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
was previously the Director General of Workforce for Hanover Rueckversicherung AG and Fidelity SICAV.
William Waggott NHS and Social Care, Department of Health.
Minnow Powell Chief Financial officer Age 48 this, Clare was Group Personnel Director at Tesco.
In Non-Executive Director Age 57 William Waggott joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on addition, she serves on the advisory Board Member for Minnow Powell became a Non-Executive Director of 28 June 2007 as Commercial Director.
He was appointed the Judge Institute, Business School for the University TUI Travel PLC in April 2011.
During his 35 years at Chief Financial officer of TUI Travel PLC in November of Cambridge: and is a Fellow of the Institute of Deloitte, he became a senior partner and concentrated 2010.
Will spent the early part of his career with Coopers Personnel.
Clare was appointed as a non-executive 16. on looking after Deloittes major clients including BAA, & Lybrand and Courtaulds Textiles plc, where he director of Kingsher PLC in December 2010.
Hammerson, Reed Elsevier, Anglo American and BSkyB.
performed various senior group finance and divisional Clare resigned from the Board of TUI Travel PLC on He was also a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board director roles.
He entered the leisure travel industry 19 October 2011. for six years.
when he joined Airtours plc and held a number of positions including UK leisure group finance director, 10.
Coline McConville prior to joining Thomson Travel Group in 2001.
He Non-Executive Director Age 67 Non-Executive Director Age 47 then went on to become Chief Financial officer of Bill Dalton became a Non-Executive Director of First Coline McConville joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on TUI Tourism in 2006.
Choice Holidays PLC in October 2004 and joined the 21 September 2011.
Her background is in management, Board of TUI Travel PLC on 19 March 2007.
Bill is also marketing and consulting.
She spent ten years at Clear 5.
Johan Lundgren Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was Channel International Limited where, as Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Age 45 previously an executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, for Europe, she was responsible for operations across Having worked in the tourism industry for twenty Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc and Global Head 58 countries including the UK, France, Italy and Spain.
five years, Johan is the Deputy Chief Executive of TUI of Personal Financial Services for the HSBC Group.
Coline began her career in management consultancy, Travel PLC responsible for the Mainstream Sector and During his banking career, he has amassed a great deal working with both McKinsey & Co in London and the was appointed to the Board of TUI Travel PLC on 21 of international expertise and is also a non-executive LEK Partnership in Munich.
She is a law graduate with December 2007.
Prior to his appointment as Deputy director of a number of UK and North American an MBA from Harvard.
Chief Executive in October 2011, he was Managing companies including Associated Electric & Gas Insurance Director of the Northern Region of TUI Travels www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 48 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 49 Governance Governance Directors report The Directors submit their report and the audited financial Group policy that payments to suppliers, whether in advance or after 1,155m bank revolving credit facility agreement Contractual arrangements statements of the Company and the Group to the members of TUI the provision of the goods or services, are made on the basis of the An agreement dated 17 May 2011 between a number of relationship The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties Travel PLC the Company for the year ended 30 September 2011. terms that have been agreed with them.
banks and the Company relating to a 1,155m bank revolving credit in support of its business activities see pages 30 and 48. facility currently provided to the Company, contains terms which The Company had no trade creditors at 30 September 2011 Principal activity give the lending banks the right to cancel all commitments to the Independent Auditors 2010: nil and consequently creditor days have not been presented.
The principal activity of the TUI Travel PLC group of companies Company and to declare all outstanding credits and accrued interest KPMG Audit PLC, the previous auditors, did not seek re-appointment Where the Company is the recipient of goods or services, payment of the Group is that of an international leisure travel business and immediately due and payable if a change of control occurs.
For the for the year ended 30 September 2011 and therefore the Directors suppliers is conducted by one of the Group companies in accordance the principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
purpose of this agreement a change of control occurs if: appointed  LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint with the policy set out above.
It provides a broad and diverse range of leisure travel experiences to  LLP will be proposed at the AGM.
Any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of more than 30 million customers in 31 key source markets.
For further Charitable giving and political donations the Company: or information see TUI Travel overview page 2.
Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of We have developed a Group-wide charity policy and guidelines to TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire information to the auditors ensure transparency in our charitable activities and to enable us to 75% or more of the voting shares in the Company Annual General Meeting The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is report annually on TUI Travels charitable giving.
During the year, the The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Tuesday 7 no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Group made charitable donations of 380,680 2010: 475,277.
For 350m 6.0% convertible bonds February 2012 at 10.30 am at the ofces of Herbert Smith, Exchange unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she further details see page 30.
The Group made no political contributions In September 2009, the Company issued 350m of 6.0% convertible House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS.
An explanation of ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware during the year 2010: nil.
bonds with a conversion price set at 349.30p per share.
The settlement the business to be transacted at the AGM has been circulated to of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys took place on 5 October 2009.
The convertible bonds contain terms shareholders and can be found on the website www.
auditors are aware of that information.
Directors and their interests which give the bondholders the right to redeem the bonds at their Details of Directors and their biographies can be found in the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest up to the Business performance Other information Corporate Governance report on page 46 and Directors interests date of redemption, if a change of control occurs.
For the purpose of A description of the business performance for the year ended Other information relevant to the Directors report can be found are given in the Remuneration report on page 65. the convertible bonds a change of control occurs if: 30 September 2011, prepared in accordance with the Companies in the following sections of the Annual Report: Act 2006, is set out on pages 32 to 43 and forms part of the Following a takeover offer to acquire all or a majority of the shares Information Location in Annual Report Directors and ofcers insurance Directors report.
in the Company being declared unconditional in all respects or The Company has purchased, and maintained throughout the year, People Page 24 becoming effective, the offeror and or its associates have or Directors and Ofcers Liability insurance and the level of cover is Social responsibility Page 24 Results and dividends will have more than 50% of the voting rights in the Company: or regularly reviewed.
Sustainable development Page 28 The Group profit before taxation for the year ended 30 September The Free Float of the Company is less than 30% of the issued Charitable and political donations Page 30 2011 was 144m 2010: restated loss of 73m.
The Directors ordinary shares for at least five consecutive dealing days where significant agreements change of control Future developments Page 45 recommend a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share 2010: 7.8p, the Free Float is a all outstanding ordinary shares of the Company The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose any significant Board and Committee Membership Pages 51 and 52 payable on 10 April 2012 to holders on the register at the close of less those held by or on behalf of TUI AG, its associates and any agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of Financial risk management Page 20 business on 9 March 2012.
When taken with the interim dividend persons acting in concert with it and b the ordinary shares control of the Company.
Pension schemes Financial statements Note 6 C of 3.3p per ordinary share paid on 3 October 2011 2010: 3.2p, this underlying the outstanding secured exchangeable bonds due Acquisitions Financial statements Note 13 gives a total dividend of 11.3p per share 2010: 11.0p relating to the Relationship Agreement with TUI AG 2013 issued by Nero Finance Limited on 16 January 2008 Post balance sheet events after year ended 30 September 2011.
The Relationship Agreement between TUI AG and TUI Travel, 30 September 2011 Financial statements Note 33 400m 4.90% convertible bonds dated 29 June 2007, includes the principle that TUI Travel will operate Share capital authorised and issued Financial statements Note 23 Key performance indicators and principal risks and In April 2010, the Company issued 400m of 4.90% convertible bonds independently of TUI AG and records the understanding between Substantial shareholdings Page 144 uncertainties with a conversion price set at 382.34p per share.
The settlement took TUI AG and TUI Travel regarding the relationship between them and See page 18 for the key performance indicators and page 20 for the place on 27 April 2010.
The convertible bonds contain terms which the governance of TUI Travel.
The Relationship Agreement will remain The Directors report was approved by a duly authorised Committee principal risks and uncertainties.
give the bondholders the right to redeem the bonds at their principal in force until either the shares in TUI Travel are no longer admitted of the Board of Directors on 4 December 2011 and signed on its amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest up to the date to trading on the London Stock Exchange, or TUI AG has less than behalf by Andrew John, the Company Secretary.
Corporate Governance report of redemption, if a change of control occurs.
For the purpose of the 10% of the rights to vote at general meetings.
In addition, in the event By Order of the Board The Corporate Governance report for the year ended 30 September convertible bonds a change of control occurs if: that another party acquires control of TUI AG during the term of the 2011, prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Relationship Agreement, TUI AG will lose certain rights under the Following a takeover offer to acquire all or a majority of the Transparency Rules, is set out on pages 51 to 55 and forms part of the Relationship Agreement including its rights in respect of the shares in the Company being declared unconditional in all respects Directors report.
Andrew John composition of the Board.
or becoming effective, the offeror and or its associates have or will Company Secretary have more than 50% of the voting rights in the Company: or The Relationship Agreement contains restrictions on the acquisition Suppliers 4 December 2011 by TUI AG of additional shares in TUI Travel which result in the increase The Free Float of the Company is less than 30% of the issued TUI Travel benets from both its economies of scale and application Company Number: 6072876 of its shareholding to more than 55% of the voting rights on a fullyordinary shares for at least five consecutive dealing days where of purchasing power.
Our principal suppliers are hotel owners and diluted basis save where TUI AG makes a general offer to acquire all the Free Float is a all outstanding ordinary shares of the Company operators and aircraft suppliers.
Amongst others, our key strategic TUI Travel shares in issue.
A number of bonds are held on TUI AGs less those held by or on behalf of TUI AG, its associates and any relationships are with hotel chains such as RIU, Fiesta, Atlantica and behalf and, if converted at the conversion price set on the launch persons acting in concert with it and b the ordinary shares aircraft providers such as Boeing.
Each source market has local and date, would give rise to 52,309,463 new shares.
On a fully-diluted underlying the outstanding secured exchangeable bonds due overseas teams to engage in effective procurement strategies to basis if shares held by all bondholders were converted, TUI AG had 2013 issued by Nero Finance Limited on 16 January 2008 deliver optimum benets to TUI Travel.
Co-operative working is a holding of 50.83% as at 30 September 2011.
As a percentage of fundamental to our relationships with key suppliers to ensure that TUI AG subscribed, at the issue price, for 50% of the convertible bond shares in issue, TUI AGs holding as at 30 September 2011 was 55.47%.
the highest standards in terms of Health & Safety and quality are offering to prevent the potential dilution of its majority shareholding.
Suppliers falling below these expectations will be TUI AG has anti-dilution rights in respect of further issues of shares removed from our programmes.
in TUI Travel other than on a pre-emptive basis.
TUI Travel has also Going concern agreed that certain matters will require the prior approval of 80% of After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have reasonable The operating units within the Group are responsible for agreeing the the Directors present at the meeting of the Board at which such matter expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources terms and conditions under which business transactions with their is considered, including material changes to the business of any Group to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, suppliers are conducted.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations, company, acquisitions and disposals of a value which exceeds 10m, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and in common with the industry as a whole, payments are often the entry into, variation or redemption prior to their due date of any financial statements.
made in advance for the provision of goods and services.
The Group borrowing facilities and the approval of the annual budget.
does not follow any code or statement on payment practice but it is A further summary of funding and liquidity is included in Note 1 B vi to the consolidated financial statements.
