CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 Key corporate responsibility policies and systems GOVERNANCE Code of Business Conduct Guidance on expenditure on Foreign Compliance online portal Policy Officials Gifts & hospitality policy and Compliance Committee online register Conflicts of interest declaration form Independent system for Guidance on avoiding Awareness training programme speaking up whistle blowing facilitation payments STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Employee stakeholder engagement Global online stakeholder guidelines 2012 management tool 2012 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY EHS Strategy Forum IS014001 accreditation for HIV AIDS policy Environmental Management System EHS policy to be revised in 2012 Participant membership of the Crisis management and emergency Voluntary Principles on Security Tullow Safety Rules response facilities and plans and Human Rights 2012 Tullow Oil Environmental Standards toes PEOPLE Tullow values Employee handbooks induction Equal opportunities policy local legislation requirements Group HR policies Harassment policy Localisation policy SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN Supplier centre online Master contract reflects Code of Tullow five contract criteria Business Conduct, UK Bribery Act assessment, which incorporates the Group local content policy 2012 United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Supply Chain principles SOCIAL ENTERPRISE Social enterprise guidelines Social enterprise working Local and community SE projects group responsible for approving managed by in-country teams Tullow Education and Enterprise TEED projects Development TEED fund More information Page Governance & risk framework Corporate governance 76 Tullow has a strong governance and risk framework that gives direct ownership of risk management and corporate Governance and risk framework 80 responsibility to the Board and Executive Directors.
This Our business model 14 cascades down the organisation through a Regional Business structure, which is supported by specialist corporate functions.
It promotes accountability and transparency in our activities and sets the standard for acceptable and ethical behaviour.
It is embedded in how we run our business and is fully integrated with the Groups business model.
com Seismic Project Manager with BGPs Party Chief and EPI Groups Acquisition Supervisor during seismic operations in Block 13T, Kenya.
C ORPORATE GO VERNANCE 76 Chairmans introduction At Board level, we seek to provide strong leadership, to set the tone for the organisation, and to continuously improve the way we work together to ensure we maintain and enhance the culture and values of the Group.
81 Board of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors, except those retiring, will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
84 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee met on four occasions in 2011 and fully discharged its main responsibilities during the year.
86 Nominations Committee report We will conduct the searches for two new Non-executive Directors sequentially to ensure that they collectively bring the desired blend of personal attributes, background and skills.
88 Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors.
We reviewed the changes made to our Remuneration Policy in 2011 with major shareholders.
100 Applying the code The UK Corporate Governance Code took effect from June 2010 and the Boards view is that Tullow has fully complied with the Code during the year.
106 Other statutory information ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT & INITIATIVE Maintain our entrepreneurial and creative spirit as we challenge ourselves to develop the business and as individuals.
This value is reflected in the agility, innovation and sense of personal initiative that have underpinned Tullows success to date.
