Corporate responsibility continued SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN acceptable behaviour or practices quickly.
Reporting gives Building long-term sustainable supplier relationships us additional assurance of high standards of performance, particularly in areas of health and safety.
2011 highlights New online supplier centre launched, see case study below Supply Chain works closely with specialist functions within the business such as Compliance and EHS.
In addition, complex Tullows five key criteria for contract evaluation intentionally contracts may need a wide range of resources such as tax, address the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact to legal or treasury.
This helps to identify the key risks in relation develop more sustainable supply chain practices to the goods or services and the contract strategy focuses on Contractual terms with suppliers amended to reflect addressing all of those risks.
A contract strategy, depending on Tullows new Code of Business Conduct and the enactment its size and value, will go through a peer review before it goes of the UK Bribery Act back to the business for acceptance.
This enables us to specifically identify the bespoke elements of the contract that Tullow evaluates suppliers against five criteria.
1 Does the are required to ensure that the actual contract commitments suppliers approach to safety and the environment meet Tullows draw on or exceed the 10 principles of developing a sustainable and industry standards?
2 Does the suppliers offer meet the supply chain and Tullows criteria.
While a lot of large technical requirements for the goods or services tendered?
companies will have similar terms within their contracts, in 3 How much local content is incorporated in the tender offer?
most instances they simply penalise companies if those terms 4 Is the company working in an ethically compliant way, adhering are broken.
We recognise that many of our suppliers are in to Tullows Code of Business Conduct and all applicable laws and developing countries and we work directly with them through regulations.
5 Is the supplier providing the best technically our supplier development programmes to help improve and acceptable commercial offer?
These five key criteria address meet the standards required.
the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact to develop more sustainable supply chain practices.
In addition, we work with local governments, in all aspects and not just with host country regulators.
We support the We have contractual commitments in place for EHS, local development of robust legislation, coupled with strong content and bribery and corruption.
Activities such as child government initiatives, that help to build local capacity.
labour are outlawed within the terms of the contract.
Freedom Building skills that are transferable will ultimately create of association and fair pay are also mandated and in some sustainable economic and social development.
We can already cases we pay directly to individual contractors to ensure they demonstrate success where local logistic companies have are being paid correctly.
Tullow people are very active on gone on to win contracts with major international companies location so we believe we would see any transgressions in because of their operations, standards and experience.
Developing local suppliers in Uganda Doing business with Tullow MSL Logistics limited are specialists in oil field In 2011, Tullow launched an online supplier centre to provide all suppliers, logistic service solutions in Uganda and have been but particularly local companies, with the opportunity to register their interest in operation since 1998. to become a supplier.
This helps us work with suppliers in terms of pre-qualification criteria and where necessary assist companies in improving We met with Abe Serabola, who is an engineer with their standards to enable them to submit tenders to either Tullow or the the company.
Groups international suppliers working in host countries.
The centre provides easy access to key supplier information.
Current opportunities are advertised in Q: How would you describe working with Tullow?
a notice board for Expressions of Interest in countries such as Madagascar and A: Both personally and as a company, we have a Uganda, which complements in-country advertising.
Supplier events are also good relationship with Tullow: however, it is advertised such as the compliance workshop hosted in Kenya in March 2012. challenging.
All work that is meaningful tends to be challenging though because most of the things we For more information visit do involve change.
The oil industry is new here in www.
com supplier centre Uganda and the standards in the oil industry are not common to other areas.
Issues regarding safety and environment are new to most people here, so it is challenging to raise awareness of these issues, and have everyone live up to them.
The requirements are very exacting, so you need to find talent that can live up to those expectations.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
