Corporate responsibility continued ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY EHS continue to look for new ways of thinking about how to improve Keeping our people safe and minimising our EHS performance.
The EHS Strategy Forum team has already environmental footprint generated some innovative thinking and ideas of how we can ensure that we maintain a dynamic and fresh approach to EHS.
2011 highlights Achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR EHS Key Performance Indicators in the Groups history We manage our EHS performance through a combination of leading and lagging KPIs.
Leading indicators are qualitative Reorganised the EHS function to reflect Tullows new and focus on achieving improvements in performance in regional business structure, including the recruitment targeted areas.
Lagging indicators show how we have of three senior Regional EHS Managers performed based on quantitative data and preset targets.
Introduced Tullow Safety Rules 2011 lagging indicators Undertook a detailed review of EHS KPIs and made some In 2011, over 13 million hours were worked across Tullow significant changes for 2012 to reflect the changing nature including a significant number of higher risk activities such as of Tullows activities and EHS risks deepwater drilling offshore French Guiana and the ramp-up of production and delivery of oil to tankers from the FPSO in EHS is a priority in all that we do, based on our desire to ensure Ghana.
During 2010, we held a Group-wide safety stand-down we do no harm to our colleagues, our neighbours or the diverse to raise the profile of our performance targets and reaffirm the environments in which we work.
In 2011, we delivered Groups commitment to making the safety of people paramount an excellent EHS performance with our lowest Lost Time Injury in our operations.
We reinforced this in 2011 with the Frequency Rate LTIFR despite the increasing scale and introduction of Tullow Safety Rules.
These are a set of diversity of our assets and activities.
requirements designed to manage high-risk activities that have the potential to adversely affect our personnel, surrounding To ensure we can consistently deliver this superior performance communities and the environment.
They were established using we have continued to enhance our EHS capability through industry practices, guidelines and standards and are intended improvements to our EHS resources and reporting structures to reinforce Tullow standards and applicable host country and with the introduction of new standards.
In 2011, we had an excellent safety reorganised our EHS function to reflect our new regional performance and achieved our stretch target for LTIFR.
business structure with the recruitment of three senior We achieved our baseline target for Total Recordable Injury Regional EHS Managers.
These EHS managers and their Frequency Rate TRIFR and our stretch target for High Regional Business Managers provide EHS leadership in their Potential Incident Frequency Rate HiPoFR.
Full details are area and are the conduit for EHS reporting to the Executive.
outlined in the lagging indicator table on page 67.
We have also implemented a number of new standards and Vehicle accidents procedures across the business, the most important being the In 2011, we did not achieve our Vehicle Accident Frequency Rate introduction of the Tullow Safety Rules.
In addition, in 2011 VAFR which at 1.46, exceeded our target of 1.0.
There were 12 we set up a strategic EHS Strategy Forum, which includes both recordable vehicle incidents during the year, all in Africa.
There Executive Directors and Senior Management, to ensure that we were no fatalities, although three were high potential incidents and three caused minor injury.
Unfortunately since year-end there has been one third party fatality in Ghana and another third party fatality in Kenya.
Full investigations of all incidents have been carried out and a series of key actions are being undertaken as a matter of urgency.
In the first instance, an external review of Tullows journey management plans and driving policy will be conducted and further driver training will be provided.
Uncontrolled releases We did not achieve our Uncontrolled Releases targets, which was a KPI we introduced in 2011.
This KPI reflects the fact that Tullows operations are mainly based in sensitive environmental areas and it is important to demonstrate good practice and the integrity of our equipment.
In adopting this KPI we have significantly improved our reporting of environmental incidents and as a result we have collected valuable data which will help us improve our processes.
EHS operators carrying out safety checks on facilities at the Bangora field in Bangladesh.
66 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 The effect of Uncontrolled Releases to the environment Lagging indicators depends on two vital components the volume released and Number of 2011 the receiving environment.
For example, while the release Target incidents performance Status of contaminated water is often thought to pose a lower risk LTIFR to the environment, it may contain oilfield chemicals which 0.76 with a stretch could be detrimental.
Equally onshore releases can be as 0.76 5 0.38 target of 0.5 per damaging as offshore releases both from the perspective of million worked hours sensitive habitats ecology and tourism and the perception TRIFR of stakeholders to accidental spills or releases: hence the 3.0 with a stretch need to have a strong KPI.
3.0 36 2.71 target of 2.5 per million worked hours In 2011, Tullow had 14 incidents of uncontrolled releases, HiPoFR over four times our target.
All of those incidents occurred in 1.2 with a stretch Africa, with eight in Uganda and six in Ghana.
Over 50% of the 1.2 12 0.90 target of 1.0 per incidents related to drilling fluids.
While none of the incidents million worked hours were significant a key focus for 2012 will be integrity Vehicle Accident management across all our operations, with a particular focus Frequency rate on drilling fluid storage and management in Uganda.
1.0 with a stretch 1.0 12 1.46 target of 0.8 per million kilometres 2011 leading indicators In 2011, we achieved three of our leading indicators, which are Uncontrolled Releases outlined on this page.
Activity to improve the management of Number of loss of EHS contractor processes is ongoing, with the recruitment of containment incidents Water, diesel oil, dedicated supply chain EHS resources planned.
We reviewed 3 15 15 chemicals, vapours, the independent EHS audit indicator and replaced this with a gases, etc 50lt 3 focus on operating in environmentally sensitive areas, which is with stretch target of 2 increasing every year for Tullow.
The management of our environmental footprint and the process we adopt for evaluating Leading indicators our activities in protected sensitive areas is very important.
As a consequence we are developing guidelines for new country entry in 2012, which will be followed as part of New Ventures Comments Status planning processes.
Implementation of Corporate Approved audit plan in place.
EHS audit programme and Six audits completed in 2011.
2012 KPIs achieve a minimum of six audits 2011 Historically the Groups EHS KPIs were defined each year in support of driving improvement in certain areas of EHS Implement Tullow Safety Tullow Safety Rules launched performance.
Towards the end of 2011, the new EHS Strategy Rules for all operations on 1 August 2011.
Roll Forum undertook a detailed review to ensure that EHS KPIs out completed.
reflect the changing nature of Tullow and the critical EHS risks Develop management of Recruitment planned for specific across the business.
The objective is to encourage the right contractor EHS process, EHS resources to support EHS and leadership behaviours.
In 2012, leading indicators will incorporating EHS input to contract strategy in Supply contracts, identification of high Chain Management.
build on the 2011 performance with a refined focus on action risk contractors and audit of tracking, safety critical equipment, contractor management, high risk contracts.
A more significant change was undertaken with lagging indicators because of a concern that Complete independent audit Audit completed in Corporate of malaria management policy, offices, Ghana and Uganda.
these focused too much on statistics and incidents rather than procedures and implementation.
Action plan in place and learning and improving.
The 2012 lagging indicators have Agree system improvements and implementation being monitored.
therefore been changed to ensure that we learn from those implement by end of Q3 2011. incidents that could have a significant impact on Tullows Undertake an independent This objective was superceded business including High Potential Incidents, significant spills EHS audit to further identify by the work undertake by the through uncontrolled releases and malaria management.
We opportunities to strengthen new EHS strategy team and was will continue to track and report industry standard KPIs as a EHS systems and culture.
Meeting target Within 10% of target or on track for delivery Failing to meet target 67 www.
