Corporate responsibility continued Integrated in the business SOCIAL ENTERPRISE INVESTMENT In 2011, we strengthened the links between social enterprise Working with and supporting our local communities investment and business aims by establishing a working group that develops integrated initiatives between Social Enterprise, Supply Chain and HR.
This working group focuses on projects 2011 highlights that support local content development and promotes economic In 2011, Tullows discretionary social enterprise investment diversification in host countries.
Tullows commitment, in this increased 346% to $11.6 million 2010: $2.6 million regard, is to create real opportunities for local people and local Introduction of the Tullow Education and Enterprise enterprise development through localisation, local supplier Development TEED fund development and building industry capacity.
The SE working group includes representatives from Supply Chain, HR, Finance, EHS, External Affairs and IR to get a broad spectrum of skills Our social enterprise SE programme is focused on supporting and experience, in conjunction with a wide range of stakeholder education and enterprise development to build local capacity for perspectives.
This working group is responsible for project the oil and gas industry and other sectors that promote approval at Group level.
In addition, many of the communities in which we operate require assistance with primary education, Growing investment healthcare and building small local businesses.
We expect all In 2011, Tullows discretionary SE investment increased 346% our SE initiatives to deliver demonstrable value and contribute to $11.6 million 2010: $2.6 million.
A significant part of this to an environment in which Tullow can run its operations increase relates to the introduction of the Tullow Education effectively in order to achieve its business objectives.
and Enterprise Development TEED fund.
The funds mandate is to support projects that help to develop local national Aligned investment goals capacity for the oil and gas industry and develop local We seek to align our projects with the development goals of a businesses.
The fund also supports initiatives to attract host country as well as our own business plans and initiatives.
Foreign Direct Investment into Africa in order to promote We engage regularly with local communities, authorities and economic growth and diversification so that there is not an other stakeholders to help inform our SE programme.
Our over dependence on oil and gas.
Through its investments, projects vary in scale and nature.
They can be highly localised, we aim to support education and training to facilitate direct such as a community health check, or have a country-wide and indirect employment in the industry and other growth reach, such as the Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme TGSS.
Investments by TEED will be closely aligned with Our overall goals are to invest where we see the opportunity to our local content objectives and localisation plans.
bring meaningful and lasting benefits for sustainable long-term development and, where appropriate, to balance this with support for certain immediate needs that our local communities may face.
Social enterprise investment by region Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme West & North Africa 43% TEED-funded projects include the Tullow Group Scholarship South & East Africa 50% Scheme, which was launched in early 2012.
The scheme will fund Europe, South America & Asia 7% postgraduate degree, technical training and vocational studies.
These scholarships aim to support local peoples participation in the oil and gas industry, and in other sectors that promote economic diversification.
The scheme will address both existing industry skills gaps and national capacity development requirements and is aligned with Tullows aim of supporting long-term socio-economic growth in countries where it operates.
It is run through a partnership between Tullow and the British Council, an internationally recognised service provider in scholarship management and partnership development in higher Social enterprise investment by focus area education.
The British Council also has a strong profile in Africa and has a great deal of experience in running educational Education 42% programmes to support development goals and priorities.
The Health 30% pilot phase has provided 24 Ghanaians from public sector organisations with full scholarships to study oil and gas and Other 16% business related Masters Degrees at a range of UK universities.
Enterprise 10% Environment 2% For more information visit: www.
org 72 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts
