Corporate responsibility continued OUR PEOPLE Significant organisational growth Being a rewarding, challenging and great place to work In 2011, we set up operations in Kenya, Ethiopia and Singapore and expanded our offices in Mauritania, the Netherlands 2011 highlights and Dublin.
We created new specialist teams such as the 26% increase in total workforce employee and contractors : Subsurface Technology Group and the Global IS Service Desk.
29% increase in employees We also reorganised the business into regions supported by a strong Group centre and sought to maintain a sharp focus on 3.2% staff turnover rate for 2011, which is a modest business as usual despite significant uncertainty in Uganda, increase on the prior year and within our baseline target one of the Groups major projects.
of less than 5% Over 84% participation in our global employee and Our HR function facilitates informal communication and contractor feedback survey, Talkback involvement on matters that affect employees.
Communication and employee consultation form part of our change management 81% favourable engagement score in Talkback, which is approach and we seek to involve stakeholders as early as possible significantly higher than the industry benchmark on any new initiatives.
Our Global Share Option Plan provides all employees with the ability to have a stake in the success of Tullow.
371 new people joined Tullow in 2011, 36% of which joined In addition to this, we have expanded our reward benchmarking our African operations in countries where it has not previously existed.
Our total workforce increased 26% to 1,548 by year-end Maintaining our culture Maintaining our culture was a key Board-level corporate Since 2007 our employee numbers have more than trebled, in objective in 2011, and we continue to take a number of clear line with our transformation as a business.
Much of our success steps to manage this objective.
At the recruitment phase we has been based on the adaptive and entrepreneurial nature of look for people with the requisite skills who align with our our culture, with organisation & culture forming a key part of values.
We reinforce this through our induction process, our business model, as outlined on page 26 of this report.
Our employee handbook and universal performance management culture is also reflected in our values.
system, where we seek evidence of our values in individual performance.
Through our leadership development and One of our key people challenges is the need to develop and coaching programmes we help people to live our values every implement systems and processes that provide both rigour and day at work and to provide support to their teams to do so as control but ensure that we continue to foster a values based well.
Our values are outlined on pages 3, 47, 61, 75 and 111. entrepreneurial culture throughout the organisation.
We also track staff turnover as one of the Groups KPIs.
We are conscious of this increase despite staff turnover remaining low relative to our industry.
Continuing to offer competitive remuneration, providing people with development opportunities and tracking where we can improve our employee engagement will help us minimise staff turnover.
We seek to learn from each person Talkback: global employee and who leaves Tullow to help us to improve our employment offer.
contractor feedback survey Talkback provides a voice to employees and contractors globally.
Staying connected In 2011, the survey received an 84% response rate.
Our overall Tullow has operations in 22 countries and 45 nationalities of engagement score was 81% favourable, significantly above the people managing our business from different cultures and energy benchmark defined by the survey intelligence provider, Sirota.
Our employees feel our strengths are in the areas of backgrounds means we have to work hard to stay connected, safety, responsibility, innovation, empowerment and teamwork.
informed and engaged as a group, in all locations and at all levels.
The main areas for improvement are the obstacles we face as a growing company in achieving more efficiency and effective We have an Internal Communications team that are primarily change management and in the increasing challenges based in London, but have local representation in Uganda and we have in managing a diverse international pool of talent.
The team is tasked with keeping everyone involved and There are also regional variations in responses that we will engaged with the Groups initiatives and activities.
We manage a need to address.
One of our 2012 objectives is to consult widely variety of channels ranging from our Intranet, videos, Townhall and to create action plans to further improve our employee meetings, informal meetings with Senior Management and engagement and address priority issues.
Our Intranet, TullowNet, is accessed by over employees responded that they intended to stay with Tullow for four years or more, indicating strong and very encouraging 1,000 people per day and provides employees and contractors retention.
Detailed results from the survey will be published in with regular updates on our business and people stories as well the Corporate Responsibility Report.
as social and corporate responsibility news.
Over 300 stories were published during the year.
68 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 Future talent pool In October 2011, Chief HR Officer, Gordon Headley made a presentation at the Conference of Ghanaian Graduates and Students of Higher Education in the UK.
He discussed the HR challenges in Ghanas oil industry, and participated in a question and answer session.
Reaching out to this Ghanaian diaspora, many of whom are completing oil and gas related degrees, helps Tullow to create an understanding of the Ghanaian oil industry and to listen to their views and concerns about the development of the sector in their home country.
268 people from various UK universities attended.
Attendees at conference of Ghanaian Graduates and Students of Higher Education held at Coventry University, UK.
In 2011, one of the Boards objectives was to improve its visibility Growth in employees both as a group and as individual Directors.
There have been 15 formal Meet the Executive sessions around our global offices, 1250 as well as Executive sessions at our Leadership Development 1,207 Programme.
When visiting local offices, members of the 1000 Executive make time to host Townhall meetings, informal 935 lunches and Q&A sessions.
750 669 Talent management 540 In 2011, we introduced a process for succession planning and 500 career development and enhanced our existing global online 370 appraisal process.
This will be fully rolled out in 2012.
We 250 also launched an employee referral scheme in the UK to complement our internal vacancies board.
We continue to 07 08 09 10 11 0 support our T for Talent programme.
For example, in 2011 we developed a Well Engineering Development Programme where 17 of our well engineers will undertake a programme to develop Deployment of employees best-in-class skills in this critical area of our business.
During West & North Africa 31% the year, our Learning & Development teams have supported South & East Africa 24% the development of eLearning training for EHS, Compliance Europe, South America & Asia 13% and Employee Induction.
In 2011, the Tullow Leadership Development Programme was launched with Ashridge Corporate functions 32% Business School.
123 leaders within Tullow have attended the first module of this training: a four-day session on what leadership is and means at Tullow.
Localisation In 2011, we further clarified our approach to localisation by developing a definition and vision, which provides a common platform for consistent implementation and communication of Workforce diversity our localisation aims.
We also recruited a Group Localisation Female 27% Manager to lead the development and implementation of our Male 73% Group Localisation strategy.
In the short-term he is focusing on working with Business Unit management teams in Ghana and Uganda to ensure that our localisation agenda in those countries is executed effectively.
