Corporate responsibility continued STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Managing our operating environment Engaging with and responding to all our stakeholders Our stakeholders shape our operating environment, directly influencing our commercial success, so we need to engage with 2011 highlights them on a regular basis to ensure the smooth continuation of Completion of a reputation perception survey across eight our business.
A strong foundation of understanding amongst countries canvassing the views of stakeholders our stakeholder groups can play a major role in moving a project through the various stages of its lifecycle.
Failure to First Socially Responsible Investor SRI roadshow in Europe engage effectively can lead to delays in executing our business Ghana-Ireland Trade and Investment Forum plans and damage to our reputation.
It can have serious implications for Tullows ability to secure local buy-in, lead to Introduction to oil and gas courses in Ghana, Uganda, erosion of shareholder value and make it much more difficult Kenya and French Guiana to attract and retain the talent we need.
Most of our activities are in developing regions and emerging A guiding principle for Tullow has always been ensuring we put oil countries.
This creates a varied and expanding landscape relationships ahead of short-term gains.
Taking a long-term for stakeholder engagement although our broad stakeholder perspective has enabled us to invest the time and effort in groups are fairly consistent.
They include our employees, fostering relationships and building strong and durable bonds shareholders, governments national, regional and local, in host countries.
regulators, policymakers, local communities, non-governmental organisations NGOs, civil society organisations CSOs, In 2011, the management of external stakeholder relationships academics and the media.
was one of the specific corporate risks identified and formed part of the Boards objectives for the year.
Given its strategic importance to the Group it remains a Board focus in 2012.
Another Board objective in 2012 is to increase the frequency of Board-level interactions with employees, key decision-makers Reputation management in Uganda and other opinion formers in our countries of operation.
Aspects of the internal debate in Uganda on the nascent oil industry during 2011 highlighted reputation management Stakeholder perception survey issues for Tullow.
As a result, we are working to create a greater We commissioned a reputation survey in 2011, canvassing the understanding of the oil and gas sector and address some of the views of key opinion formers in Uganda, Ghana, UK, Gabon, specific areas of concern for stakeholders: both in Kampala and French Guiana, Mauritania, Brussels EU and the USA.
This in the Lake Albert Basin area.
Key initiatives under way include: provided Tullow with insights into the Groups main external More effective communication with parliamentarians about reputation drivers and allowed us to benchmark our reputation developments in the industry as well as soliciting feedback: against other oil and gas companies working in the same Two new Lake Albert community information centres to geographic areas.
provide easy access to information on the oil and gas industry: The Groups strongest reputational asset is being seen as Further introductory courses to the oil and gas industry, a well run business.
Stakeholders recognise Tullows with an increased focus on development activity: long-term vision and perspective, strong financial footing and Improved engagement with donor agencies, industry and strong management team.
To a lesser extent, Tullows social multilateral organisations: and economic contribution to host countries is also A public information programme about Tullows supply chain acknowledged as an asset in areas such as support for and local supplier development in Uganda: development needs and in using and developing local suppliers.
Some clear areas for improvement were also highlighted, An outreach campaign to Ugandan diaspora to engage and particularly the desire for deeper two-way communication and inform them about Tullow in Uganda and address any greater transparency both in dealings with Government and in questions they may have: and Tullows recruitment and procurement practices.
An employee engagement programme to keep Tullow Developing robust processes Uganda staff fully informed, In 2011, we have focused on building more robust internal including regular capacity and processes for external stakeholder engagement.
meetings with Tullow We have developed a competency framework to guide the Group management.
development of External Affairs in line with the growing demands of the business.
We have also established a set of Stakeholder Engagement Guidelines and tools to govern and support our stakeholder engagement processes and stakeholder issues management.
These will form the basis of a development pack for new country entry as well as training for existing operations.
64 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 Social performance standards We are progressing the development of Group social Ghana-Ireland trade and investment forum performance standards, which will guide the way in which we In October 2011, over 150 delegates attended the first understand and manage our social impacts across our Ghana-Ireland Trade and Investment Forum in Dublin.
Once finalised, Regional External Affairs Managers The event, which was sponsored and organised by Tullow and will have responsibility for executing regional work programmes The Ghanaian Embassy, brought together Irish and Ghanaian in accordance with those standards.
In conjunction with this we business leaders to discuss opportunities for trade between the two countries.
Representatives from 22 Ghanaian companies are continuing to develop our social competencies in each took part in the delegation visiting Ireland.
In Uganda, for example, Tullow has introduced International Finance Corporation IFC Social Performance Foreign Direct Investment in Ghana has grown by over 70% in the Standards training for the local team, to include the last year and building international trade relationships is a key development of effective IFC compliant grievance management priority for the country, as the Government of Ghana is keen to systems for local communities.
This year the team will also diversify investment beyond the oil and gas industry.
implement a centralised social information system for For this reason, the forum focused on business opportunities for stakeholder engagement, baseline data management and land Irish companies in four sectors: agriculture, food processing, access issues for Tullows Uganda operations.
The focus of this construction and engineering.
To date seven Irish companies who will be the management and reporting of social responsibility in attended are either developing business opportunities with the an operational context, and the management of social risk and Ghanaian contacts they made or intend to do so within the next two years.
reputation management from a corporate viewpoint.
Ireland has a small but developing trade relationship with Ghana.
A wide engagement programme In 2010, Irish exports to Ghana are estimated to have been in In 2011, the Group External Affairs engagement programme excess of $60 million, an increase of over 20% on the prior year.
included new initiatives such as a European road show for In 2010, Ghana exported approximately $16 million of goods to Socially Responsible Investors and an event in Dublin to Ireland.
Ghana is one of the fastest growing economies in the world, with double digit economic growth forecast for 2012. encourage Irish investment in Ghana.
We have also continued with introductory oil and gas industry courses in Ghana and T ullow has been developing business Uganda, in conjunction with Robert Gordon University, and have relationships in Ghana since the 1980s, extended this during the year to stakeholders in French Guiana and Kenya.
In addition, we ran our first course for UK long before we discovered oil there in 2007. stakeholders, including government departments, NGOs We believe opportunities for Irish and other and foreign diplomats based in London.
businesses are vast, so we are happy to support this event.
Our Group Compliance Manager has led engagement with our Rosalind Kainyah, industry peers, regulatory bodies and NGOs CSOs in the area of Vice President of External Affairs, Tullow Oil transparency and anti-corruption.
Industry partner forums on compliance and ethics have been held in Bangladesh and Kenya to date.
The IR team has a highly active IR programme in the UK, Europe and North America.
This is supported by the Executive and Senior Management and amounted to almost 50 investor days in 2011, covering 22 cities in 13 countries.
HR has been increasing our engagement with diaspora groups as part of our localisation efforts, and Internal Communications at Group and country level have run a variety of initiatives for employees, which are discussed in the our people section of this report, on pages 68 to 69.
In Ghana and Uganda, Community Liaison Officers CLOs undertake an ongoing outreach programme, including face-toface meetings, consultations and radio question and answer sessions.
Where we have new operations, such as in Kenya, we have held sensitisation meetings with local stakeholders to begin to develop relationships and help ensure our presence is welcomed.
Dr Joseph Annan MP, Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Ghana speaking at the Ghana-Ireland Investment Forum in Ireland.
