Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Sustainability Introduction UBM and people This year we have changed the name of our report A key element to creating long term shareholder value toSustainability which we believe more accurately is our ability to attract, develop and retain the most reflects our approach to creating long term talented people at all levels.
We do this in a variety shareholder value as well as making a difference to ofways: ourvarious stakeholders.
For us, being a sustainable business isnt just about being green, its about how Diversity UBM achieves business success today, which includes We are a global business with employees, customers, being profitable, whilst assuring its success tomorrow, partners and suppliers from a wide range of cultures through long-term responsible management and and backgrounds.
In the At a glance section you stewardship.
Our approach encompasses the willhave seen how international UBM is in terms following key areas: ofitsrevenues and offices locations.
During 2011 David Levin weemployed an average of 6,565 people around People how we engage, motivate and support Chief Executive officer theworld.
The figures below highlight the diversity ouremployees: UBM plc ofour people.
Environment how we manage our environmental impact: 2009 2010 2011 % % % Communities how we support the communities Gender diversity inwhich we work: and Male employees 44.67 44.85 45.01 Governance how we ensure good governance Female employees 55.33 55.15 54.99 andmanage risk.
You can find out more about Manager breakdown thisin the Corporate Governance Statement on Male 57.84 55.89 56.36 pages 65 to 70.
Female 42.16 44.11 43.64 2011 has been a year of significant achievement, Ethnic diversity building strongly on the foundations we laid in 2010.
Caucasian 55.2 57.7 54.7 Asian 32.9 33.1 35.1 Our highlights of 2011 include: Latin Hispanic 6.6 4.9 6.0 African Caribbean 3.7 3.3 3.3 Expanding our flagship Events serving the charity and NGO community, adding a new annual event Other 1.6 1.0 0.9 in the UK Responsible Partnerships to our Allowing diversity to flourish and recognising and successful annual Brazilian event ONG Brasil harnessing the unique talents that every individual and planning a further event launch for India in can bring to the business enables us to respond to the 2012.
I am proud of what we are achieving here and rapidly changing business environment, to meet the of the energy, commitment and expertise of our diverse needs of our customer base, and to enhance people in delivering these successful not-for-profit creativity and personal development.
events: A 3.5% reduction in absolute carbon emissions, We have equal opportunities policies and programs whilst growing the business, and a significant in place to ensure employees are selected and improvement in environmental data capture: promoted solely on the basis of their skills and ability A new program to increase the number of women to do the job.
in senior positions, with commitment and support Job openings at UBM are posted to the Help from the Board: and Wanted area of the UBM Wiki, so that all employees Strong and improved participation in our second are aware of the opportunities for them to advance Global Employee Engagement Survey.
44 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Employees receive training on diversity including in the fourth cycle of a robust and systematic review an online test, on induction, for new employees, of leadership roles and capability requirements in equality and anti-harassment issues.
order to identify implications for succession planning and talent development.
We offer a wide range of flexible working policies to Our 2011 achievements include: enable employees to balance the demands of work and personal responsibility including working from The 2011 cohort of our flagship Business Leaders home, flexible hours, sabbatical leave, enhanced Program BLP, with 17 high-potential participants parental leave, part-time working, job-sharing and drawn from seven countries, participatedin modules compressed working week.
in the UK and US, and wereeach mentored by a We recognise the specific needs of individuals and, UBM senior executive ornon-executive director.
in particular, ensure that appropriate adjustments During 2011, three alumni of the BLP 2010 are made to enable the employment of disabled programand one of the BLP 2011 participants persons.
Should employees become disabled havebeen promoted into leadership roles in other during employment every effort is made, through parts of UBM.
appropriate training or other adjustments, to We launched our China Leadership Development accommodate their disability and enable them Program C-LDP, run in Mandarin, with 20 tocontinue to pursue their career.
participants from mainland China, Hong Kong Our Code of Core Labour Standards guides business andTaiwan.
relationships and sets high standards for ethical The European Leadership Development Program working practices.
E-LDP, refreshed in 2010, completed the first cycle In 2011, UBM established a goal to increase the of the re-launched program, with 24 participants number of women in senior business leadership roles drawn from UBMs businesses in the UK, Holland, and put in place a number of initiatives to ensure France and the UAE.
thatour talented female employees can achieve their Our online 360 tool for the Emerging Leaders career aspirations with UBM.
This process began in Framework to express the leadership capability May 2011 with a series of workshops, during which requirements for the broader management 85 ofUBMs high potential women shared their population were rolled out to the organisation in experiences of developing their careers with the multiple languages, with over 200 individual 360s Group, and in October non-executive director completed in 2011.
KarenThomson participated in our Executive During 2011, several UBM Board members Womens Forum held in New York.
Further details participated actively in UBMs leadership ongender diversity appear in the Corporate development interventions.
Four non-executive Governance Statement on page 67. directors have participated as guest speakers at the Business Leaders Program and the regional Talent management Leadership Development Programs in Europe andChina, and five have actively mentored high We place a particular emphasis on the development potential executives.
In addition, directors have ofour people to achieve their full potential, and in had the opportunity to meet with participants and 2011 we continued our targeted talent management alumni of UBMs leadership development programs initiatives and programs.
Strong succession planning in the US, Europe and Asia.
and talent review processes are now embedded into the fabric of business management practices, and leadership teams across UBMs businesses engaged UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Sustainability continued Communication employees post requests seeking everything from answers to specific questions, to help with strategic UBM is looking to foster an open, entrepreneurial, challenges to feedback on new ideas.
innovative business culture which allows individuals to Our online community has succeeded in excel.
We believe that clear and open communication breaking down organisational barriers, creating a with employees is fundamental to fostering a positive welcoming place where positive culture thrives, both culture and achieving our business aims.
mirroring and reinforcing our in-person culture.
Thenumber of active members in Asia leapt 44% andChina is now the third most active country after In 2010 we identied areas for improvement ubmVoice the US and UK.
Decision-making, planning and around UBMs Group identity and communicating In 2011, we undertook our second UBM-wide execution are all enhanced and accelerated, making what the future holds for UBM and our 2011 employee engagement survey ubmVoice scores show how we have improved in these UBM increasingly nimble both in response and giving colleagues across all businesses areas, most notably with a 12% increase in how strategic positioning, and all of UBMs knowledge andin all countries the opportunity to give UBMs leadership is communicating a vision for isincreasingly available to all of UBMs employees.
feedback on their experience of working for the future that motivates employees.
Participation in the 2011 survey increased been achieved in a number ofways, including An ongoing dialogue with employees is also by 17% to 77% of eligible employees, new, regular webinar and Wiki Q&A sessions with promoted through appraisals, e-newsletters, town demonstrating their confidence that the survey divisional senior management, who give updates hallmeetings, web chats, blogging and webinars.
process would result in action being taken to on progress, strategy and what management is address feedback.
Theemployee consultative forums such as town hall thinking, as well as with UBM-wide updates from Areas where we performed signicantly the CEO.
meetings offer a valuable vehicle for the exchange above the external norm include: We still have work to do and will be focussing ofinformation with management and also give on theseareas in 2012.
Feeling part of a team employees the opportunity to meet and share views.
Feeling valued and respected Trust in leadership Employment packages Reward strategies and policies, health, welfare Making business choices that support the environment.
andbenets We have developed policies on compensation, rewards and benefits that ensure that the best talent UBMS online community isrecruited, retained and engaged.
The objective is toensure that all staff in all locations are treated fairly The primary way in which we communicate, connect and we aim to follow best employment practices and collaborate is via our online community, the within the local markets in which we operate.
Since 2008 we have pioneered the use Wepromote and reward based on merit and the ofsocial business technology and our Wiki is a individuals contribution to the business.
Reward vibrant media platform connecting employees around arrangements include bonus and long term incentive the world, who share ideas, knowledge, expertise and schemes payable on the achievement of financial and experiences.
During 2011 activity in the community personal objectives.
grew by 28%, active members increased by 15% and Detailed employment policies are in place across 92% of employees now have accounts.
Annual page our businesses, covering areas such as recruitment, views increased 22% to 4.6 million.
training, flexible working, paid leave e. g. maternity, Despite having 6,600 employees across over 40 paternity, adoption, parental, carer and sabbatical different countries our online community is bringing leave, diversity, data protection, anti-malpractice our dispersed company closer together than ever Whistle-blowing and other policies tailored before.
We have an established culture of sharing and tomeet our core principles.
learning and our employees can tap into the experience and expertise of colleagues, as evidenced by a 45% growth in the number of discussions, where 46 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements 5 4 We are serious about taking care of our employees and 2011 Environmental successes offer a wide-range of initiatives to achieve this such as: 1.
UBM is rated in the top 4% of the UKs CRC Gym health club reimbursement schemes Energy Efficiency Scheme Performance League Cycle2Work schemes, secure parking for bikes Table.
First global travel survey conducted to gather Wellness clinics and programs dataon UBM commuting and business travel.
Chicago and Albuquerque offices gain Energy Star accreditation.
Smart meters now monitor our energy usage over Health checks-ups 25% of our office square footage 2010: 18%.
Space rationalisations in new offices increase Discounted prescriptions energy efficiencies and cut carbon.
A wide range of other benefits are also available, with 6.
Zero waste no waste is sent to landfill from local variations between markets.
Benefits include ourHead office in London.
Sharesave, encouraging employee saving and share ownership, Company pension schemes and life 2011 Global Carbon Footprint assurance.
In the event of redundancies we ensure that proper procedures are followed with affected staff in This year our total Carbon Footprint including accordance with Company policies and local laws, Commuter, Car fleet and Business Travel flights and that redundant staff are treated fairly in isestimated at: 26,273 tonnes CO. Baseline 2 accordance with local best practices.
i. e. onlyutilities account for: 10,360 tonnes CO. 2 2011 Global carbon footprint % UBM and the environment 1.
Commuter travel 47.6 61 UBMs principal environmental issues are energy 2.
Electricit y 38.6 3 usage, waste recycling, transport, and paper sourcing 3. Business t ravel flight only 9.2 and usage.
In 2010 we produced our first global 4.
Gas 2.6 Carbon Report, setting the baseline of performance 5.
Company cars 1.9 for energy usage and waste, and in 2011 we made 6.
Water 0.1 significant progress in these areas.
Building on this Waste disposal to landfill 0.03 success we expanded our work to cover travel and 2 Waste energy recovery 0.002 map our global carbon footprint, and we report our carbon footprint baseline figures opposite.
Last year we set ourselves the target of reducing absolute carbon emissions by 5% by 2012 from the 2010 baseline, and in 2011 we took a large step towards that in achieving a 3.5% reduction, whilst growing the business and employing more people.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Sustainability continued These reductions have been made through space Environmental reporting Results for 2011 rationalisation and ofce consolidations: improved technology Whilst UBM has grown signicantly over the course and continued management at existing locations: energy of2011, there has still been a reduction in absolute saving measures built into new ofce relocations, making our emissions.
2011 when compared to 2010 is illustrated new ofces much more energy efficient: reductions to waste bythe graph below: and landll emissions our Head Ofce in London is no longer sending any waste tolandll and instead it is sent to Reduction in absolute emissions centres where waste is converted into energy: and more % accurate data collection over 25% of our global ofce 1 Absolute carbon emissions 3.5 square footage now has energy usage measured by smart Carbon emissions per head 7.6 meters, increasing theaccuracy of the data and our ability toinuence it.
1 On track for target 5% by end of 2012.
Reporting is now part of a continual improvement process, and we have improved both the accuracy and UBM global carbon emissions from utilities theamount ofdata collected, as expressed below: and global headcount 2010 vs 2011 Amount of data collected % of data % of data collected collected Utility in 2011 in2010 2011 2010 10,741 Electricity 94 81 10,360 Gas 94 78 Water 50 47 6,601 6,322 Recycling 53 49 Waste 35 29 1,699 1,570 Carbon Headcount Absolute emissions carbon per head kg emissions tonnes CO 2 Sustainable events in place to minimise any negative impacts of our business activities.
Clear objectives and targets have As a leading organiser of events all around the world been set, relating to reducing energy usage, water we aim for excellence in running our events by usage and waste: training for employees: promoting conducting business operations in a sustainable health and safety of employees, exhibitors and manner, and we recognise that we have a key role in visitors: promoting sustainability in the stakeholder raising awareness of sustainability issues amongst our supply chain: monitoring the sustainability suppliers and customers.
In 2011 UBM Live became performance of suppliers and contractors: reviewing one of the first companies in the global events and continually striving to improve the Sustainability industry to achieve the BS8901 accreditation for Management System: being profitable and ensuring sustainable event management, and our CPhI long term success: and ensuring that sufficient Worldwide and FI Europe Events in 2011 were resources have been allocated to meet our ourfirst events to be BS8901 accredited.
commitments and continually improve our To achieve BS8901 UBM Live demonstrated sustainability performance.
that we genuinely care about the impact that our Having set the standard, we now aim to lead business has on our employees, our customers and theway in our stewardship of the Events sector and onthe environment and that we have proper systems todrive best practice across UBM.
48 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements UBM in the community http: www.
org, while we NGO Events Making a difference willadd an event inIndia in 2012 NGO India http: www.
Our NGO Events are unique, free events for the charity NGO india-ngo.
This series of free community, bringing together charities, NGOs and events enables NGOs to network: share best practice: raise companies as well as CR practitioners on a large scale.
They their prole and build partnerships with business.
The total form a key component in how we operate as a responsible, cost to UBM of the NGO Events series during 2011 was sustainable business and are UBMs most significant 397,365. community investment, in terms of time, money and Since 2009 ONG Brasil has more than doubled in resources.
We believe that the best way for us to support the sizeas it becomes a xture in the NGO calendar, and last communities in which we do business isby doing what we year saw 453 exhibiting NGOs, 753 conference delegates do best running Events.
We harness UBMs commercial and 10,500 visitors, while Responsible Business 2011 saw resources, and the expertise and experience of our staff in a 138 exhibiting NGOs, 350conference delegates and 2,000 not-for-profit environment.
TheNGO Events series has the visitors.
personal commitment ofDavid Levin, CEO, who is the The NGO Events series is also supported by PR sponsor at Board level.
Newswire, the primary wire distributor for the Events, who in Launched in Brazil in 2009, we have been pushing 2011 supplied free distributions, a media room to promote ahead with developing a global series of Events to support the UK event and five free media rooms to NGOs, worth the NGOand charitable communities.
annual Brazilian NGO Event ONG Brasil http: www.
br en and the first UK Event Responsible Business We also offer complimentary or discounted services UBM employees are also encouraged to undertake to not-for-profit entities for example: volunteering activities and are given time off each year, with pay, to volunteer.
UBM LLC Foundation, PR Newswire offered free services for charities, our community foundation in the US, is pioneering NGOs and corporations offering relief services initiatives to blend our volunteering and pro bono during the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, worth activities with our Events, delivering UBM resources 78,500. to charities and not-for-profit entities, from skilled PR Newswire also provided complimentary expertise to free exhibitor space, and last year the news releases to all charities and NGOs declaring Foundation won the San Francisco Bay Area commitments at the2011 Clinton Global Initiative Community Involvement Corporation Award, Conference, worth 45,000. which annually recognizes one business that operates Via its partnership with CSRwire, PR Newswire an outstanding employee community involvement provided expanded distribution to media, analysts program.
In 2011 more than 20 Events benefitted and stakeholders to any PR Newswire member that local communities in the US, for example, our Game has a CSR Sustainability communication initiative.
Developer Conference developed a free web-based Flash game for adults that presents online safety We frequently donate Events stands to NGOs instruction for children, in non-profit partnership toenable them to get closer to specific industries.
with WebWiseKids, promoting youth safety in the Our Events in the US coordinate with venues digital world: and students were awarded grant and local not-for-profit agencies to organise food funding at EE Times Annual Creativity in donations from Events to local soup kitchens and Engineering Awards for their school to receive support centres.
At many of our Events we raise STEM science, technology, engineering and money for charity and The Asian Awards in London math materials.
raised 77,000 for Save The Children.
In total our awards Events raised 152,000 for charity in 2011.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Sustainability continued We operate a matched giving scheme through which Our principal health and safety issues relate to fundraising efforts by UBMs employees are matched theoperation of our Events which had 1.6m visitors by the Company, together with a payroll giving in 2011.
While local legal requirements mayvary, scheme in the UK, whereby regular donations by ouraim is to set benchmark standards for managing employees are matched.
The cash donations to charity health and safety at our Events around the world.
are based either on proposals generated by employees, Contractors and exhibitors are made aware ofour or by reference to the level of volunteer work demanding requirements with detailed health and undertaken by employees.
safety guidance, and the majority of contractors have In the Spring 115 UK employees, led by the either undertaken formal health and safety training CEO, supported the pilot of Work for Oxfam for a orplan to do so because we demand it.
Wehave day bydonating a day, half day or hour of salary, continued to seek to apply the highest standards in raising over 9,000, which UBM then matched.
each of our Events taking account of local In addition to the expanded commitments regulations and norms but also applying our own around the NGO Events we also made cash approach.
Risk assessments are conducted at our donations to charities of 270,097 2010: 437,971 Events and a health and safety manager is on site for and in total committed cash, resources and services the duration of the Event.
UBMworks closely with of943,675 which includes the NGO Events.
external health and safety experts to undertake regular independent health and safety audits of our Events Health and safety and we continually seek to improve and share best practice.
Our Internal Audit department reviews We recognise that providing a safe working health and safety issues at Events, with particular environment for our employees, and for the emphasis on Emerging Markets.
exhibitors and visitors to our many Events, is an Office-based employees undertake annual online essential responsibility of management and employees health and safety training courses and workplace at all levels.
Health and safety policy lies with the riskassessments.
Board and each divisional CEO is responsible for making sure that their business operates in Suppliers compliance with relevant health and safety legislation and procedures.
Divisional CEOs also undertake We aim to do business in a consistent, responsible and health and safety awareness training.
By working closely with venues, suppliers and contractors we encourage sustainability and environmentally responsible activities and sound sourcing.
Through regular communication we ensure that our partners meet the same high standards that we set for ourselves, including adherence to local laws and best practice.
We conduct surveys with suppliers, listen to their feedback and share our knowledge with them.
Major suppliers and contractors are audited on their green initiatives, and wherever practicable we use locally sourced supplies.
50 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011
