Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility eight To meet our commitments see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 16 & 17 Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible Ultra has a corporate ethics policy and businesses are corporate citizen and as such the Group complies with all required to report on compliance every month.
In addition, applicable legislation in the countries in which it operates.
the Board reviews compliance twice per year.
Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are Although ultimate responsibility for the Groups ethics policy generally established by the Board, with the individual lies with the Board, Managing Directors and Presidents of businesses taking a major role in their implementation.
the individual businesses have total responsibility for the Relationships implementation and control of the policy.
customers Directors and employees are required to avoid personal Ultra promotes excellent working relationships with all its conicts of interest regarding company business and are customers with a special emphasis on meeting its bound by strict rules on insider dealing and insider commitments.
The Group receives direct feedback on information.
In addition, all businesses are strictly required relationships from the UK MoD Directorate of Supplier to comply fully with the relevant national export control Relations and from many customers, such as BAE Systems regulations.
They are also required to conduct their business where Ultra is one of five members of its Strategic in strict accordance with competition and anti-trust laws.
Ultra continues to be recognised as Ethics Committee a long-term partner to its customers with a variety of Ultra has established an Ethics Committee to provide achievements.
For more information on how Ultra delivers independent advice and scrutiny of Ultras business activity, its innovative solutions in partnership with teaming providing assurance that the Groups current and planned members and customers, see pages 4, 26, 28 and 30. undertakings are conducted in a manner consistent with suppliers the legislative environment and, just as importantly, are Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, transparent and open to scrutiny.
competitive tendering process on an arms-length basis or The Committee comprises six permanent members, three through formal teaming agreements.
Conicts of interest of whom, including the Chairman, are independent.
Ultras supplier relationships engender a cooperative culture which assists problem The independent members are: solving and helps to accommodate changes of David Shattock Chairman requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements David is a retired Chief Constable and has served on the are also entered into where appropriate and provide Committee since its inception.
benets for Ultra, its suppliers and its partners.
Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and Martin Bell conditions under which they conduct business transactions Martin is a journalist and former MP with a long track-record with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to of campaigning against corruption.
suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, Major General Retired Tim Cross provided that the supplier is also complying with all Tim is widely acknowledged as an expert commentator on relevant terms and conditions.
Ethics The independent members of the Committee are self-selecting.
Ultra is committed to operating in accordance with all This means that they are fully independent of the company legislative requirements, including those pertaining to and, as such, are able to scrutinise its activities free from corrupt commercial practices.
In the US, the Foreign and undue influence.
Corrupt Practices Act has been in force since 1977 and the The appointment of the Chairman is also exclusively within UK Government has introduced into law the Bribery Act the remit of the independent members.
Both pieces of legislation are designed to ensure that commercial dealings are conducted ethically and free from The three Ultra members are: corrupt practices.
Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive Ultra requires that its employees comply with the spirit and David Garbett-Edwards Company Secretary principles of the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in which it does business as well as behaving in an Phil Evans Managing Director, Aircraft & Vehicle ethical and fair manner.
The Groups employees are required Systems division to maintain high standards of personal conduct and integrity at all times in carrying out the companys affairs.
40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Corporate responsibility Fig 1.
Reportable recordable accidents per employee Fig 2.
During Ultra recognises that it is important, both for its employees these reviews, the independent members provide advice and the communities in which it operates, that effective and guidance on the appropriateness of target markets and measures are in place to ensure that the Group minimises customers: on potential teaming partners and on risks the environmental impact of its activities.
Ultra has a associated with operating in potentially corrupt environments.
formal environmental policy that addresses compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards EthicsPoint for air, waste disposal and noise, the economical use of As part of its commitment to business ethics, Ultra materials and the establishment of appropriate recognises the importance of receiving feedback on environmental performance standards.
Progress is compliance from employees.
At the beginning of 2010, a monitored through annual reporting and a bi-annual audit Group-wide independent, anonymous weband telephone process.
The Chief Executive is the main Board member based hotline, called EthicsPoint, was implemented for with overall environmental responsibility.
The Managing reporting ethical and other compliance issues.
Any reports Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are that are generated are compiled by the independent responsible for implementation of the policy.
Bi-annual operator and forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit external audits covering environmental matters are Committee other than US security-related issues that will conducted by independent, external, qualified auditors: be routed through the outside directors of the Special the most recent audits took place in 2011.
As with health Security Arrangement Board or Proxy Board.
This service and safety, the audits and the resulting follow-up process has been publicised to employees through emails, the have proved effective in reaching and maintaining high Group intranet and posters.
standards of compliance across all sites.
Where appropriate, Health and safety individual businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Energy One of the most important commitments Ultra has is to the consumption is measured annually and, where possible, the health and well-being of the Groups employees.
A healthy, data compared with previous years.
There was no committed workforce working in a safe environment is contamination of land during 2011, continuing the track necessary to achieve superior business results.
Therefore, record of the previous three years.
The results of the annual Ultra places great emphasis on maintaining high standards reports from each business are reviewed by the Board of health and safety, not just to employees but also to annually in January.
In the UK, Ultra measures and reports on visitors and the local communities in which the Groups its packaging waste annually Fig 2.
All Ultra businesses are required to have encouraged and incentivised to reduce the net amount of a written local policy: to have the necessary resources to waste they produce.
implement the policy: to provide adequate information, Ultra is part of the UK Environment Agencys Carbon instruction and training for employees and to implement Reduction Commitment Scheme.
See http:  of health and safety standards.
uk business topics pollution 126698. aspx Executive is the Board member with overall health and safety for more information.
The Group was ranked 1,098 with a responsibility.
The Managing Directors and Presidents of the weighted score of 1001.00 in the 2010 2011 CRC operating businesses are responsible for implementation of performance league table.
Bi-annual audits are conducted by independent, external, qualied assessors covering health and safety Ultra businesses have video communication and conferencing matters.
The last audit cycle took place successfully in 2011. facilities.
These have been progressively installed and Each business is required to submit a separate annual report upgraded over the last ten years and have proven highly on health and safety issues.
The results of the audits and effective in eliminating the need for travel in order to hold annual reports from each business are reviewed by the Board reviews and other meetings.
The most significant effect has annually in January.
Incidents involving lost time or requiring been a reduction in the amount of air travel undertaken.
external reporting are reported monthly.
Accident and incident data is collected annually.
The reportable recordable accident rate has been maintained over recent years Fig 1.
The lost time accident rate per 200,000 hours for 2011 fell from 0.55 to 0.34.
