Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic review Developing Ultras people 8 winners from 50 applications to Ultras Audacity Fund Culture: like owner-managers.
In this way, the businesses have the Ultra defines its culture as the values, role models, freedom to invest quickly in innovative solutions, giving them processes, procedures and behaviours of its employees that agility to out-manoeuvre the competition, but the decisions are drive the achievement of Ultras prime objective, as always based on sound business judgement.
illustrated in the pyramid on page 10.
Ultra recruits a large Audacity: number of people each year as the business grows and new Audacious thinking is the difference between incremental people also join through acquisitions.
Ultra is committed to improvement and business transformation.
It takes the idea of ensuring that the Ultra culture is not diluted as the Group innovation, one of Ultras core values, and invites our grows.
The Groups culture, values and behaviours are employees to think about issues in ways that are unconstrained shaped by the strategic tenets, described on page 16 and by existing norms and make use of creative approaches to every 17, with the fifth tenet calling for an efficient organisation aspect of the Groups business.
As part of this thinking, many with committed and competent people.
To achieve this, of Ultras businesses have conducted audacity workshops Ultra has identied four cultural behaviours of its people which challenge the attendees to think of stretch targets for that are highly valued and encouraged.
These are which their business aims and, in doing so, transform the leadership, entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia.
Employees from other Ultra businesses join these Together, they are known within the Group as LEAP.
workshops, providing an outsiders view on the topic and Leadership: challenging the status quo.
The Group has also rolled out an Good leadership is extremely important to Ultra and a number internal innovation challenge called the Audacity Fund.
Here, of models of leadership are incorporated in the development a fund of 500,000 is made available each year to turn ideas and training that is delivered around the Group.
One example from employees into reality.
Any employee can submit a is the MLI Maximising Leadership Impact programme that is proposal for an idea that could improve one of Ultras existing run at least once every year and is designed to help develop products or services, solve a customers problem or result in a leadership skills for employees already in leadership positions new business opportunity for the Group.
The best are then or about to move into such a role.
Leadership applies at all awarded funding to turn them into research and development levels of management for team leaders, supervisors, managers projects with the expectation that they will augment the in fact for anyone who is responsible for others.
For Ultra, Groups performance in the future.
the leadership model of an authoritarian leader, using hard Paranoia: power to get their way, is outmoded.
The Group prefers the Paranoia in the business sense is a concern and fear about more modern concept where leaders co-opt the support of competitors and what they may do.
It also relates to concerns their followers by inspiring them and appealing to their moral and fears about things that can go wrong internally: for sense of duty and avoid acting like dictators.
To be successful example with projects or with the Groups strategic in appealing to followers moral sense, leaders must ensure relationships.
Paranoia is a very healthy business behaviour and that their organisations have an appropriate supportive, ensures that an appropriate consideration is given to the risks learning culture.
Ultra needs effective leaders who have the and threats the Group faces.
They can then be pre-empted ability to utilise both soft and hard power, depending on and either prevented from occurring or their effects can be management circumstances, known as smart power.
For Ultra, paranoia is important in focusing its staff Entrepreneurship: on maximising their knowledge of the competitive landscape Being entrepreneurial is a behaviour that underpins the Groups by constantly asking questions of the Groups customers, strategy.
It results in robust plans that provide the Groups teaming partners and suppliers.
This allows Ultra to maximise customers with solutions that are different from, and better the quality of proposals, engineering solutions and processes than, those of the competitors.
One of the most important by undertaking robust, challenging peer reviews of them.
aspects of developing an entrepreneurial culture is to create an An example of using paranoia to achieve success is the organisation that has the capability to generate excellent ideas Oman contract win achieved by Airport Systems.
The bid and the business skills to bring them to market.
Ultra does this process required significant levels of paranoia throughout to by encouraging businesses and people to try new things.
keep ahead of the competition in terms of local diplomacy, Inevitably, not everything is going to work and so learning from government level diplomacy, technical interaction with the the mistakes that are made along the way is an important part customer and pricing.
The constant awareness of the of the entrepreneurial culture that the Group fosters.
ambitious competitiveness of bid competitors Thales and Entrepreneurship is hard-wired into the Groups structure as Siemens was also of the utmost importance during the each of the individual businesses are run autonomously, with bidding process and was a factor in the Ultra win.
the Managing Directors and Presidents encouraged to behave 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic review Developing Ultras people Fig 1.
Retention rate within green zone Fig 2.
Internal appointments at Exec Team, MD President level 100 100 96% 96% 95% 95% 80 80 86% 84% 81% 80% 60 60 40 40 20 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 0 What people mean to Ultra The succession planning element of the process aims to The success Ultra achieves in innovating to meet customer ensure that there are suitable successors for all the needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of management team roles across each business and other its employees.
All managers in Ultra, supported by HR senior level roles.
Ultra has, as a result, been able to appoint a professionals, work towards the aim of delivering an efficient high proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional and business organisation with competent and committed people to meet levels through internal promotion.
Businesses must also make the Groups business commitments.
It is vital to the continuing sure that the talent pool is deep enough to cope with these growth and success of Ultra that the quality of the internal appointments Fig 2.
Therefore, as well as the people management teams is constantly improved.
Many businesses listed as successors, each business also identies people with state that their people are the companys most important high potential.
The combined list represents Ultras high-yer asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the Groups right people are its talent pool and is used regularly to nd the right people to ll most important asset.
In a typical year Ultra recruits over 500 new employees.
Over and above this, acquisitions bring new Succession planning and retention people into the Ultra team.
To ensure that Ultra has the right people in the right place in the organisation, each of Ultras businesses prepares an Training and development annual organisation, succession and development plan.
This The Group actively supports and invests in training and is a process that has been organically developed within the development linked to business needs.
In this, individuals are assessed against their responsible for identifying the training needs of its employees performance in their current role and their potential to and managing its own training budget.
This typically takes perform a larger role.
This assessment positions the individual place through individual employee performance and on the performance versus potential grid shown below.
It development reviews, which are held at least annually.
Specic recognises that any role in the business will become more training programmes are provided for individuals as necessary.
challenging as the business grows.
Equal attention is given to In 2011, 20 different in-house training courses were run in the enhancing the performance of and retaining the individuals in UK and in North America.
Many of these are courses that are the green zone of the grid and to addressing the challenges tailored to the specic requirements of Ultra and the trainers of the people in the amber and red zones.
This does not have an intimate knowledge of how the Group operates always mean that those individuals in the red and amber areas across all its businesses.
These training events include must leave Ultra.
Often they need to be placed in a role more programmes on leadership and management processes and suited to their talents and in which they can perform as techniques, along with workshops on Ultras successful required by the business.
Ultra has achieved high retention competitive strategy, strategic selling, programme rates of those individuals on the business senior management management and systems engineering processes.
In 2011, the teams who are in the green zone Fig 1.
Group launched the Ultra Learning Academy.
This is an online portal, available to all of the Groups business, and enables the scheduling of training, hosts online courses and retains the training records of Ultras employees.
The Learning Academy was used to roll out training to all relevant Ultra employees, preparing them for the UKs new legislation regarding bribery and corruption.
As a UK business, all of the Groups employees, even those based outside the United Kingdom, are required to abide by the UK Bribery Act 2010 and so the Learning Academy played a crucial role in providing training to Ultras employees regardless of their location.
Low Medium High Very high Potential By developing and retaining the high potential individuals in this zone, the Group is creating its next generation of business leaders who will be able to take up the challenge, when required, of continuing the growth and expansion of Ultra.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Performance 7.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic review Developing Ultras people continued Fig 3.
Employee engagement across the Group 100 80 five 60 77% 78% 77% 79% 76% To have an efficient organisation with 40 committed and competent people 20 2008 2009 2010 2009 2011 see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 16 & 17 0 Benets Another way that Ultra attracts and retains the right people is to offer all employees competitive and comprehensive benets, which are regularly reviewed.
The Group believes in rewarding The success Ultra achieves in its employees well for good performance.
All US and Canadian employees are offered medical plans and the businesses innovating to meet customer needs promote and offer specic wellness programmes.
Ultra also places a high level of importance on share plans that are open is based on the broad range of skills to all employees.
These are offered annually as savings related and capabilities of the Groups share option plans in the UK, US and Canada and enable all employees to share in the success of Ultra as a whole.
Following the last invitation in 2011, over 64% of eligible US employees opted to participate.
Ultra offers retirement benets to its employees around the world.
Further details are provided on pages 33 and 34.
Securing the talent pipeline Diversity Ultra has always followed the policy of appointing the best Ultra has been committed to developing people ever since it was formed in 1993 and has a number of programmes person for a particular role, regardless of nationality, gender or ethnic background.
Much effort is made to ensure that all that are helping the Group to attract people as well as encouraging students in general to develop careers in of the Groups employees around the world can expect similar compensation, benets and working conditions.
Group takes seriously its responsibility to improve the number A number of Ultras businesses have formed special of graduates recruited into engineering roles, who may then relationships with schools in their surrounding communities, become the business leaders of the future.
hosting company visits, helping with school science fairs and providing work experience opportunities.
Employee communication Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra Ultra has sponsored six students through their last two years at involves effective communication and consultation.
This takes school as part of the Arkwright Scholarship programme in the a number of forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine UK.
This provides students with support and mentoring during UltraNews, company-wide strategy and performance their studies and one student has now been sponsored on an presentations, birthday and communication lunches, cascade engineering degree course at the University of Nottingham.
team brief meetings, specic consultation groups and Many Ultra businesses have well established, successful, YOURviews employee surveys.
As a result of this focus on apprenticeship programmes.
Most common are opportunities developing its people, Ultra is seen as an attractive place to for students to work on real projects in the business and work with many interesting and rewarding opportunities.
these come under a number of titles including work Engagement placement, co-op programmes and internships.
These are not Ultra recognises the importance of committed employees just engineering or science students either but include a far and, using its YOURviews employee survey, first developed a broader range including finance, marketing and HR.
measure of employee engagement in 2005.
The survey is Government-funded Knowledge Transfer Partnerships KTP in conducted in each Ultra business at least every two years the UK have been a real success at a number of businesses.
The and the businesses across the Group have successfully programme helps exploit university networks and resources.
A improved engagement over the last three years Fig 3.
KTP student from the University of the West of England worked Communities on a two-year project to design a smaller, lighter and cheaper Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible partner compressor resulting in prototype hardware.
in the communities in which it operates and in which its Ultra tries hard to develop links with universities for many employees live.
The Group has a positive attitude to reasons.
It allows the Group access to leading research, environmental issues and is pleased to support selected relationships with students who may ultimately join Ultra can charities and to maintain links with its local communities.
be developed and also as a responsible corporate citizen Ultra sees the benefit in providing universities with a link to business.
