Report of the Directors About Unilever OUR BUSINESS MODEL FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH VISION THE UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE Our vision is to double the size of Unilever while reducing our environmental footprint.
LIVING PLAN The two elements of this are interlinked.
In order to live within the natural limits of the planet there is no option but to decouple growth from social and Our growth ambition is dependent environmental impact.
The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan on operating sustainably.
These two USLP sets out our path to achieving this.
It includes around 60 targets and embraces all aspects of our own operations, going aspects of the vision shape and form beyond them to the entire lifecycle of our products.
and technology will be key to achieving our goals.
Equally important will be our ability to change consumer behaviour.
The USLP will result in three big outcomes: EXTERNAL CONTEXT We will help When we wrote in our previous report that 2011 would be challenging, we could not have known how right that prediction 1 billion would be.
The world has been through a year of almost people improve their health and well-being unprecedented turmoil and uncertainty, and is facing some serious challenges.
This in turn frames the way we must manage our business and the issues we face.
We will Short-term economic pressures have dominated 2011, with major instability in the Eurozone and a weak recovery by the halve US economy.
Stubbornly high unemployment in many developed markets has created a continued squeeze on the environmental footprint of our products consumer spending.
Commodity prices have been volatile and many have risen sharply.
And the operating environment in emerging markets has seen increasing focus from We will source competitors who all know that business success depends on driving growth in these markets.
100% 2011 also saw a tragic series of natural disasters, from the of agricultural raw materials sustainably earthquake and tsunami in Japan to the famine in the Horn of Africa.
Each one required a response from us at a humanitarian, employer and operational level.
Furthermore, the interdependent challenges of food security, poverty reduction, sustainability of resources, climate change and social and economic development have never been greater.
We believe that many of these factors will continue for the medium term, and that this level of volatility and uncertainty is the new normal.
Our business model has been evolved as a response to this operating environment, as we address the prospect of another 2 billion people on the planet by 2050.
8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever As a FMCG fast-moving consumer goods company, our BUSINESS MODEL business model centres on building GREAT BRANDS which consumers know, trust, like, and buy in Our aim is to deliver growth.
But not growth at conscious preference to competitors products.
Our any cost rather a new sustainable and equitable brands command loyalty and affinity and deliver form of growth.
Strong business performance superior performance.
They help consumers to is driven by our brands, people, and sustainability perform simple but essential everyday tasks.
which is increasingly giving us a true Innovation is nourishment for our brands.
We will invest in helps to deliver superiority, increases our strengthening our brands so that they drive competitiveness and allows us to appeal profitable growth as part of a sustainable to the widest range of consumers.
business model: the more we sell, the Increasingly, our innovations are more efficiently we can operate and, designed to enable sustainable living.
at the same time, by reducing the cost of running our business we can invest more in our brands, innovations, and advertising and promotions.
This, in turn, enables us to sell more.
As a major employer, our business model is rooted in our A further element of our business model is SUSTAINABLE people.
We have a distinctive set of values and they attract LIVING.
External factors will move it from being the choice people who bring a sense of purpose to their work.
We of a concerned few to a new norm for billions in this decade.
reward in line with performance and create a climate where Companies who move quickly to enable it can seize major people are incentivised to excel.
We develop leadership competitive advantage by doing so.
Our aim is to help capabilities early and place priority on building tomorrows people move to a more sustainable way of using our leaders today.
All this combines to build a business of products and reduce the current rate of consumption of GREAT PEOPLE.
Our business model is designed to deliver SUSTAINABLE GROWTH, where sustainable means four things: it is consistent: it is competitive: it is profitable: and it meets major social and environmental needs.
BUSINESS STRATEGY Our vision and other elements of our business strategy are articulated in the Compass, which was developed in 2009 and has remained a constant guide and touchstone for all our employees.
Key OUR VISION IN ACTION elements of it are elaborated on in the MEANS THAT, IN FUTURE, following pages.
EVERY TIME CONSUMERS CHOOSE A UNILEVER PRODUCT, IT IMPROVES THEIR LIFE, THEIR COMMUNITY AND THE WORLD WE ALL SHARE.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
