Report of the Directors About Unilever WINNING WITH PEOPLE Our growth ambitions demand that our organisation has a structure and culture that make us fit to win in a fast-changing environment.
Above all, they require us to find and develop the worlds best talent and leaders a challenge we are striving to meet.
Leverage our operating Organisation and diverse talent Four Acres leadership facility in framework for competitive pipeline ready to match our Singapore see picture story below advantage growth ambitions reinforcing our presence in emergingmarkets.
Success in the future will depend on being Attracting, developing and retaining lean, agile and competitive in a resourcetalent is essential if we are to meet our Furthering diversity challenged world.
In three years, we have ambitions.
We constantly audit the skills Our consumers come from every transformed our structure to enable us to and leadership that will be needed background, nationality and social move faster, innovate better and take full across every cluster and in our key group, and we want our people to advantage of our global scale.
global functions to achieve our ambition reflectthat diversity.
Over the past of doubling the size of the business while fewyears, we have focused on More focused categories reducing our environmental impact.
improvingthe representation of women During 2011 we started to move from in the workplace.
Today, 30% of our 11product categories to four: Foods, Seeking talent globally Non-Executive Directors are women, Refreshment, Home Care, and Personal The talent we need will come from all and the proportion of women in senior Care.
This streamlining makes our over the world.
Weve introduced global positions rose from 23% in 2007 to decision-making faster, lets us share standards for graduate recruitment, so 28%in 2011.
In our annual Global People best practice more effectively, and that people have the same experience Pulse Survey, gauging managers creates greater scale for innovation wherever they start.
We have targeted views of the company, approval of our and sustainability initiatives.
universities, particularly in emerging diversity and inclusion measures rose markets, with our campus recruitment by four percentage points in 2011 to Getting closer to the consumer programme.
In 2011, we were reach 83%, well above the external We are also moving from 22 recognised as the most preferred benchmark of 74%.
The graduate FMCG fast-moving consumer clusters six of them primarily in goods employer in 14 countries.
emerging markets allow us to focus more closely on the consumer, help us Developing leaders Performance culture which spot wider opportunities, and create We are expanding our Unilever respects our values regional economies of scale.
Leadership Development Programme todeliver high quality training to more We are building a winning culture, in Our global function network, including managers.
All our senior leaders have which every employee is encouraged IT, Finance, R&D, Supply Chain and HR, been through the programme and are to grow to his or her full potential.
We further drives the benefits of scale and now mentoring our next generation of have developed a new performanceshared best practice.
In 2011, we began building our based reward structure that recognises INVESTING IN LEADERSHIP: 86% FOUR ACRES, SINGAPORE of managers proud In 2011, we broke ground on a new to work for Unilever leadership development centre in Singapore.
The new facility will bring to a vital emerging market the excellent training we have given managers at our existing Most preferred Four Acres centre near London for 57 graduate FMCG years.
Both learning centres will continue employer in to look beyond Unilever for inspiration and best practice, forming partnerships with universities and business schools.
14 Artists impression countries 18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever SAFETY IS ESSENTIAL The health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on behalf of Unilever are of the utmost importance to us.
A key measure of progress, set out in the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, is our total recordable accident frequency rate, which counts all employee workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
There was a 22.7% reduction in our total recordable accident frequency rate in 2011.
It will be independently assured by the end of June 2012 and reported in the online version of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan report 2011 at www.
people who not only have delivered results, but also have the right values for our business.
Clear goal-setting We have changed the way we set goals for our employees to ensure clear direction on priorities and responsibilities.
Closer measurement of performance has allowed us to introduce more differentiation into the way we reward people further encouraging excellence.
Encouraging learning In 2011 the Unilever Learning Academy, established in December 2010, had more than 128,000 employees registered for its e-learning and classroom courses, giving access to over 7,600 training modules.
Listening to our people Our 2011 Global People Pulse Survey also confirmed that we are making progress in developing a performance culture.
86% of our managers are proud to say they worked for Unilever and our overall performance culture index rose by 4%.
CHANGE IN OUR HANDS: TANZANIA Unilever uses trucks to sell shop-to-shop to retailers in Tanzanias capital, Dar es Salaam.
When company driver Issa John Mgumba saw that the sales vehicles CONSTANTLY LOOKING didnt look the part, he identified the opportunity to smarten them up, transforming them into a fleet that FOR EFFECTIVE WAYS TO he and his colleagues would be proud to drive.
HELP GROW SALES AND Improvements included enlivening the vehicles with vinyl stickers costing just 300 in total that grab INCREASE PRIDE IN THE peoples attention and promote Unilevers brands.
BUSINESS IS KEY Small actions like Issas all add up to making a big difference, helping to grow our business wherever we TO SUCCESS.
He feels that he really owns the business with a real stake in the long-term success of the company, said country Customer Development Manager Martin Kariuki.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
