Report of the Directors Governance REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND REPUTATION COMMITTEE Terms of Reference During the year, members of the Committee endorsed the The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee refinement of the system for collating statistics relating to cases overseesUnilevers conduct as a responsible multinational under the Code of Business Principles and Code Policies.
The Committee is also charged with ensuring that improved visibility of this data means that management is able to Unilevers reputation is protected and enhanced.
A key element of monitor infringements more closely and identify trends.
the role is the need to identify any external developments which are likely to have an influence upon Unilevers standing insociety Pursuant to the remit of the Committee, the Chief Legal Officer and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
reports to the Committee on litigation matters which have a reputational impact including environmental issues, labour The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive relations and competition law compliance.
These matters are Directors: Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Hixonia Nyasulu and Louise then also considered by the full Boards.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind chairs the Committee.
Keith Weed, on Legal proceedings please see note 20 on page 103.
Chief Marketing and Communication Officer and a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive, attends the Committees Unilever Sustainable Living Plan meetings.
The Committee monitors progress on the USLP.
The USLP is at the heart of Unilevers aim to double the size of its business while The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives of reducing its environmental impacts and is available on our Unilevers two sustainability leadership groups.
The first is the website at www.
Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG five experts from outside Unilever who advise our senior leadership on The Committee reviews any potential risks that could damage the thedevelopment of its sustainability strategy.
The second is the credibility of the USLP, and each of its meetings addresses a Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP Steering Team, the group different element of the USLP.
In 2011 the governance of senior executives who are accountable for the delivery of the mechanisms of the USLP were discussed, as well as issues such USLP.
The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards as sustainable agricultural sourcing, water and safety.
informed of current and emerging trends and any potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
The Committee visited Unilevers research laboratory at Colworth in the UK to learn more about the role of R&D and the science of The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever behaviour change.
Both are crucial to achieving the USLPs Sustainable Development Group are available on our website at targets.
Unilevers work in developing alternative approaches to www.
animal testing was also reviewed.
Meetings During the Boards visit to Indonesia, the Committee received a Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The briefing from the World Resources Institutes local expert on Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Sustainable sourcing of palm oil is a major target in meetings were held in 2011. the USLP.
The briefing gave the Committee a detailed update on deforestation issues in Indonesia as well as a broad overview of The Committees agenda comprises a number of standing items.
Unilevers actions in this area and how it is working collaboratively These include the Code of Business Principles, litigation and the with growers, suppliers, customers, governments and NGOs to USLP.
In 2011, Committee members requested that product and promote sustainable palm oil.
occupational safety be added to these standing items.
Evaluation of the Committee In addition, the Committee reviews a number of strategic topics.
The Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, For example, in 2011 these included a review of the system led by the Committee Chairman.
The Board also evaluated the Unilever uses to manage issues and reputational risks and a performance of the Committee and concluded it was performing discussion of animal testing.
Code of Business Principles and litigation review The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Unilever Code of Business Principles and associated Code Policies, which Sir Malcolm Rifkind set out the standards of conduct we expect of our employees.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility  The Committee ensures that the Code of Business Principles and Louise Fresco Code Policies remain fit for purpose and are appropriately Hixonia Nyasulu applied.
Inthis regard it complements the role of the Audit Committee which considers the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
