26 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate social responsibility report Operating responsibly and ethically in all areas of business We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with both customers and suppliers.
Integrated CSR As a Group, we seek to operate responsibly In October 2010, the Group successfully and ethically in all areas of our business.
began a new global series of AVEVA World We have a strong ethical belief We have a strong ethical belief in the way Summits.
Organised for AVEVA customers in the way business should be business should be conducted and how and partners, three regional Summits were conducted and how employees employees should be treated.
We have presented throughout the month of October should be treated.
We have integrated social, environmental and ethical in Amsterdam, Las Vegas and Beijing.
With a policies into the way we do business and focus on business and project strategy topics integrated social, environmental how we interact with our stakeholders for midlevel and senior management, the new and ethical policies into the way including our shareholders, employees, AVEVA World Summits complement AVEVAs we do business and how we customers, suppliers and local communities.
popular user group meetings that address interact with our stakeholders The Chief Executive has Board responsibilities more technical product subjects for engineers for matters relating to the Groups culture and operators.
Adopting the theme of including our shareholders, and ethical policies, environmental matters Engage Inspire Deliver, 2010 was the employees, customers, suppliers and customer and employee issues.
These first year that AVEVA conducted the Summit and local community.
Our main matters are reviewed by the Board as part of series for their customer community around areas of focus are: its management of risk and maintenance the world.
More than 800 delegates at the of its core values is vital.
The Board considers three regional conferences attended business customers and suppliers: that it has sufficient information in order to be strategy presentations and participated in a able to assess these risks.
range of social and networking activities over the employees: course of the twoday events.
Combining both the plant and marine industries, each Summit training and development: Customers and suppliers had a mix of speakers that included AVEVA We seek to be honest and fair in our senior management, independent analysts, health and safety: relationships with both customers and and customer case studies.
suppliers with the majority of costs being environment: headcount related.
AVEVA has relatively few preferred suppliers, and evaluates potential Employees travel: suppliers based on several factors including The Group now has over 950 employees of vendor policies, reputation and contractual whom over 600 are based overseas.
We are educational partnerships: and terms and conditions.
dependent on the drive and commitment of our employees: they are our most important community involvement.
We have a policy not to offer, pay and valuable asset and key to our continuing or accept bribes or to accept substantial success.
We have continued to review the favours.
We encourage our suppliers and skills and experience needed to fill our critical customers to adopt the same principles roles and continue to recruit in certain areas.
to which we ourselves aspire.
Retention and skill development is regularly We offer the highest level of support and reviewed by the Board as part of the risk continue to enhance our product offering to management process.
ensure our customers effective use of our We recognise that we must excel in the software, minimising waste and improving management of people and support employees efficiency.
The Group is committed to its to develop their careers within the Group, customers and has dedicated support staff which assists towards maintaining a high within its Group Solutions Centre to handle all level of morale.
support calls and capture customer feedback.
Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 27 AVEVA remains a longterm supporter of cancer and hospice charities, as well as emergency medical services that operate within the local community and around the world.
Staff turnover remains well below the industry AVEVA will continue to review its benefits This is now being supplemented with the norm and positive retention programmes programme throughout the Group to ensure ELearning programme and local induction are being developed by the Group HR team.
that valued and cost-effective benefits are plans.
During the year over 100 new Staff retention rate is monitored regularly and offered to all employees while remaining employees attended the courses hosted in at 31 March 2011, the retention rate was 91% competitive.
The Groups employment Cambridge, including employees that joined 2010 92%.
We aim to be an employer policies are continually under review and are the Group following the acquisitions of of choice by: aimed at meeting or exceeding the legislative Logimatic Software A S and ADB Systemer AS.
requirements in the countries in which the recruiting, training and developing Management development Group operates.
Wherever possible, these high calibre people and helping them to promote a considerate and flexible approach training programme subscribe to our values while continuing to work life balance.
As part of this, the Group Managing employees in a changing and to grow the business in key areas: continues to review and improve communication demanding organisation with such diverse providing clean, healthy and safe with employees and has conducted surveys cultures and numerous locations brings a working conditions: and held forums with employees to gain their number of challenges.
AVEVA has developed views on key issues.
a training programme and a learning framework being an equal opportunity employer and to provide support for the management team.
not tolerating any discriminatory actions The management development course has Training and development or harassment of our employees: we are been extended to include different levels proud of the diverse nature of our workforce: ELearning of management and is led by our internal In support of the development and retention recognising the requirement to provide Training and Development Manager.
In 2011 of staff, the Group makes available to all facilities for disabled employees and taking the opportunity for management development employees across the Group an ELearning all reasonable measures to meet any special has been further enhanced with the introduction tool which enables them to access technical needs an employee might have: of the AVEVA Leadership Programme which and generic training material.
This is particularly will help to ensure that we develop and retain encouraging employees to use alternative suited to an employee base so widely spread top talent and to aid succession planning.
communication channels to reduce travel across different locations.
where possible, support fuel-efficient Graduate training programme This initiative includes bespoke training for commuting through the provision of car During the year, the AVEVA graduate training new employees and information for specific share networks, cycle sheds, showers and programme has been extended to include groups such as graduates, managers, etc.
changing facilities in the UK offices: graduates in our EMEA and North American We have also used our AVEVA intranet to sales divisions and nonR&D functions such offering flexible benefits in the UK publish webcasts from the Groups executive as business strategy and finance.
During the to allow employees to select benefits team members which has proved a very useful year an additional five new graduates were to suit their lifestyle, and an Employee way to brief our widespread employees on the hired and will undergo a two year graduate Assistance Programme to provide challenges and opportunities facing the Group.
training programme gaining experience independent support for a variety of both Central Induction Programme from different disciplines in the Group.
work and nonwork related issues: and Our successful Central Induction Programme We are proud that in 2011 the graduate training launching a wellness initiative in 2010 has continued to be enjoyed by new recruits programme achieved endorsement from the which included encouraging a healthy life and proved very beneficial in providing Institute of Leadership and Management.
style and lunchtime exercise routines.
information and a welcome to the Company.
28 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate social responsibility report continued by very knowledgeable, talented individuals and in addition to its own inhouse graduate Training and development continued using computers and a variety of software recruitment schemes, AVEVA actively supports Groupwide appraisal scheme development tools.
There are no harmful the work of educational establishments and Developing skills is important to individuals chemicals or anything that could give rise government bodies around the world to narrow and to AVEVA developing people helps to noxious waste employed in the process.
The AVEVA Academic Initiative move the Group forward and helps maintain We purchase energy saving screens which are is a Groupwide programme with several the respect and reputation of our staff with MPR II and TCO 03 compliant.
We use thirdparty key objectives: our customers.
The employee appraisal recycling vendors to assist us with the disposal process is designed to provide a fair and work with universities and technical of computer hardware in an environmentally open evaluation environment which: institutes to promote the use of AVEVA friendly manner.
The Group actively undertakes products within undergraduate courses ensures staff receive regular, constructive recycling of waste products with printer toner, and postgraduate research projects: feedback on their performance: paper, cardboard and plastic recycled in many locations.
We encourage employees to work with government agencies to links job descriptions and individual undertake recycling as much as possible.
reskill engineers for employment objectives with AVEVAs business plans: and in other disciplines: and sets and reviews personal skill Travel work with engineering bodies to development goals.
We encourage and support environmentally encourage school leavers to pursue considerate travel to work arrangements at all careers in engineering.
Health and safety our principal office locations, according to local The Company provides both software We have a legal and moral responsibility circumstances.
At our Cambridge headquarters and training support to enable engineering to ensure the safety and well being of all this includes encouraging employees to cycle students to gain handson experience of our employees while carrying out their duties to work, share car journeys or use public the latest technologies and use these to on behalf of the Group and also to maintain transport.
There are a number of employees undertake a variety of academic and practical a safe environment for customers and other who take advantage of the excellent facilities projects directly applicable to the industries visitors while on our premises.
Health and for cyclists with staff encouraged to use these.
Safety, Fire Safety and Electrical Safety audits International travel is important to support and are carried out on a regular basis.
As a global promote our business worldwide.
The level In 2010 11 AVEVA provided support to: business, our employees undertake travel to of international travel is monitored on a regular many areas of the world to visit customers basis and ways to reduce travel investigated.
Asia Pacific region: sites or to assist customers in the deployment Over 30 universities, colleges and high Video and web conferencing is utilised and testing of our products.
The Group regularly schools in China, India, Korea, Malaysia, whenever practicable.
Continuing investment in takes advice from the UK Foreign Office, Singapore and Taiwan.
our core IT infrastructure across the Group is the World Health Organisation and similar enabling improved communication collaboration EMEA: organisations concerning health and safety and reducing the need for travel.
More than 15 universities and colleges in the various regions where we operate.
in Algeria, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Educational partnerships Russia, Serbia, Spain, Sweden and the UK.
Environment Skills shortages continue to be a challenge in As a developer of software the Company Americas: most engineering companies and it will take has no manufacturing facilities and therefore Seven universities, colleges and some time for the recent increases in the the Group is classed as low impact in postgraduate institutes in North America number of engineering students at universities environmental terms.
The majority of sales are and Canada.
and technical colleges to close the skills gap for software which is delivered electronically to that currently exists.
In recognition of this, customers.
Our software products are created Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 29 AVEVAs social commitment extends to organisations that are dedicated to the personal development of young people through adventure and business mentoring activities.
In addition, AVEVA has donated in excess of Help for Heroes The Groups policy has $800,000 worth of engineering software and Help for Heroes is a registered charity providing provided free, special training courses to US been to continue to support support to service men and women wounded initiatives aimed at reskilling designers and in current conflicts.
local charities in the areas engineers from the declining auto industry and upgrading the skills of piping designers Headway that we operate as well as reentering the plant industry workforce.
Headway promotes understanding of all aspects of brain injury and to provide a number of national and AVEVA sees its Academic Initiative as a vital information, support and services to people strategic investment that will bring longterm with a brain injury, their families and carers.
benefits to the engineering industries around the world.
MidAnglia General Practitioner Accident Service MAGPAS Community involvement MAGPAS has provided emergency care The Group is involved in a number of in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough charitable and good causes.
The Groups since 1971 and works in partnership with policy has been to continue to support local the East Anglian Air Ambulance and the charities in the areas that we operate as well as East of England Ambulance Service Trust.
a number of national and international charities.
Employees are encouraged to participate East Anglian Childrens Hospice EACH personally in charitable and community activities EACH supports families throughout their with the Group also giftmatching the efforts of experience of caring for children with employees who took part in the Chariots of Fire lifethreatening or lifelimiting illnesses.
Charity Marathon, the Oxford to Cambridge Arthur Rank Hospice Bike Ride and Red Nose Day.
Arthur Rank Hospice provides specialist During the past year we have donated palliative care to people living throughout 49,618 to a wide range of organisations much of Cambridgeshire.
The Hospice offers as summarised below: a safe, friendly and supportive environment for those affected by cancer and other Japanese Tsunami Appeal Fund lifelimiting illnesses.
The staff work to Following the recent earthquake and provide the best levels of endoflife care tsunami in Japan AVEVA made a donation to improve patients quality of life, while to the Japanese Tsunami Appeal Fund via also supporting their relatives and carers.
International Committee of the The Outward Bound Trust Red Cross The Outward Bound Trusts mission is to The International Committee of the Red Cross, unlock the potential in young people through or ICRC, is a humanitarian organisation which discovery and adventure in the wild.
aims to help those caught up in armed conflicts Macmillan Cancer Support around the globe.
Macmillan Cancer Support is a source of support, helping with all the things people affected by cancer want and need.
