Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 22 Sustainability Summary Our approach and strategy 1 2 3 Our commitment to As an important element of these Aiming for zero harm sustainable development wider governance practices, during The health and safety of all employers It is very important to Vedanta Group the year under review the Board of and contractors is a top priority for us, and all our stakeholders that sustainable Directors launched the Groups new and the year saw a 28% fall in the Lost development is embedded in our overall Sustainability Committee with a Time Incidents Frequency Rate LTIFR business strategy.
significantly wider remit than the against the business plan target of 20%.
former Health, Safety and Environment A key element of this commitment is Committee that it replaced.
This was the continued result of a to report our sustainable development five-year focus on reducing accident activities in line with the Global The new Committee will support rates that has seen a 71% reduction since Reporting Initiatives G3.1 Sustainability and advise the Board on all aspects 200506.
To ensure such ongoing Reporting Guidelines.
This is in line of sustainability, in line with the findings improvement, safety experts carry out with the recommendations of the of the independent Scott Wilson internal and external audits at all independent Scott Wilson Report, Report on our sustainability practices.
locations to suggest how technology, published in November 2010, which This involves quarterly meetings to processes and behavioural safety can all recommended changes to our guide the Groups overall sustainable be achieved.
As a critical element of this reporting practices.
This report now development strategy, to set annual ongoing focus, over 233,000 man-days gives us the cornerstone required to targets and to monitor progress of safety training were delivered across deliver a fully integrated, consistent against them.
Its recommendations the Group during 201011. and global approach to sustainable are to be taken forward by senior development reporting that fully management at each site, who in Sadly, the year also saw a highly regrettable reflects industry best practice.
turn are supported by site-level loss of life, with a total of two employee sustainability professionals.
and 24 contractor fatalities occurring A detailed report on the Groups SD across Group operations and projects.
performance in 201011 can be found in The Committee also ensures that there Learnings have now been shared across our sustainable development report, and are in place the effective management the Group and preventative actions taken.
more information is available on our systems that ensure sustainability risks website www.
are assessed and managed correctly.
Reducing our environmental footprint Further, additional elements have 29 of the Groups 33 major plants Assuring strong Group-wide been included in the Groups Code are now accredited to the ISO14001 SD governance of Conduct and Value Statement after environmental management standard.
Vedanta Group has a well-defined receiving Board approval on 17 March During the year, we invested US$130.6 sustainability framework comprising 2011.
Full lists of the previous HSE million in environmental management governance structures and policies for Committee whose membership met activities including waste water and solid health and safety, for the environment during the year are on page 67 of this waste management, pollution control and for corporate social responsibility.
1 Farmer covered under Vedantas sustainable farm-based livelihood programme.
2 Engineers at Konkola copper mine shaft, KCM.
4 Children playing at Vedanta Anganwadi child care Center.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 23 Key operating subsidiaries also Key achievements during the year included help for achieved significant reductions in energy 146,815 children through the 3,288 Vedanta Bal Chetna consumption, including KCM 17%, VAL-J 6%, BALCO 5% and VAL-L Anganwadi centres and support for 6,500 farmers on 3%.
It is projected that a saving of 3.95 4,714 acres across 244 villages.
million GJ of energy saving has been made through the conservation initiatives adopted in the year.
4 Specific water consumption meanwhile fell at BALCO by 49%, at Sesa by 18%, by 20% at VAL Jharsuguda and by 20% at KCM.
We are developing a Water Management Policy, and all Group companies aim to recycle all wastewater in waterstressed areas.
We added Water management to our risk matrix this year and will review risks and opportunities related to climate change.
We have also successfully registered four Clean Development Mechanism CDM projects, which between them have the potential under the Kyoto Protocol to deliver some 405,000 Certified Emission Reductions CERs each year.
The Group is also committed wherever We also implement healthcare Enhancing community education possible to enabling the use of its waste programmes in partnership with local and livelihood products as building materials.
To this health authorities and NGOs in local During 201011, we worked with end, during 201011 around 1.85 million communities to address the main over 167 partners, including NGOs tonnes of fly ash and 0.994 million health issues affecting each area, and government bodies, academic tonnes of slag were used in cement including the threat of HIV AIDS institutions and private hospitals to manufacturing and road construction.
help improve the quality of life and socio-economic wellbeing of over We are reviewing our landLeadership opportunities for 2.7 million people in 552 communities management practices to develop Group employees in and around our operations.
With Land Management and Biodiversity As a Group that values above all an overall CSR spend of US$36.56 Policies, and are conducting several the contribution of its people to its million and the support of 68 fulltime initiatives to protect or restore habitats.
success, we seek to build and provide personnel and 170 volunteers, We also planted 759,000 trees across a flexible, flat and learning organisation we aimed to contribute to the our operations during the year, bringing that has resulted in an engaged and development of empowered the total to 11.72 million.
We carried out high-performing workforce.
a gap analysis on our Environmental 8,500 of the total workforce are in Impact Assessments EIAs versus professional roles.
With a twin focus on social and international standards for greenfield bio-investment, we participated in projects, and will create a supplementary With a total of 31,171 full time and projects driving improvements in health, study to close the gaps identified.
58,198 contract employees across our education and livelihood as well as areas operations in India, Africa and Australia, such as water harvesting, agriculture and Caring for workforce and we delivered an average 52 man-hours social forestry many case studies may community health of training per employee during 2010 be found on the Group website at All Vedanta sites have medical 11.
Such support starts at the point of www.
facilities, and 74,752 employees recruitment with an intensive induction and contractors underwent health programme.
It is followed up by highly Based on specific and achievable examinations including blood lead, effective talent and performance objectives, measurable deliverables audiometric tests and spirometry management programmes that and replicable benefits, each project tests ECGs and chest x-rays during the identify and reward high performers, ensures that by the time Vedanta year.
No cases of occupational health helping us develop our future leaders and our partners withdraw the disease required reporting to the Indian from within.
community has the resources government during the year, although and knowledge required to some tuberculosis cases were found As a result, the Groups employee continue developing and and dealt with appropriately.
