Cookson Group plc 08 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BACKGROUND POLICY Cookson employs some 15,500 people with manufacturing facilities in Cookson recognises that its operations impact a wide community of over 40 countries serving customers in more than 100 countries stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, business worldwide.
We supply our customers with consumable products which associates and local communities, and that appropriate attention to the they use in their manufacturing processes, for example in the production fulfilment of its corporate responsibilities can enhance overall of steel, foundry castings, electronics and jewellery products.
In structuring its approach to the various aspects of in just in time supply chains with short lead times from order to delivery.
corporate social responsibility, the Company takes account of guidelines We therefore have a relatively large number of small and medium sized and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and other facilities located close to our customers throughout the worlds major regulatory bodies from around the world.
Social, environmental and economic regions, rather than large centralised factories supplying ethical matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact such customers worldwide.
Our manufacturing processes are not energy matters may have on the Groups management of risk.
intensive total energy costs are approximately 2% of revenue and do not Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: produce large quantities of hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
Code of Conduct: requiring all Cooksons businesses and employees SUSTAINABILITY to comply with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
Cooksons products and services can significantly reduce the environmental impact of our customers operations.
We believe that by Health, Safety and Environment: protecting the health and safety of continuing to develop innovative products and services we can create our employees, contractors, customers and the general public and leading market positions in profitable businesses which promote reducing energy consumption and waste in our operations.
We therefore maintain R&D spending at a high level and Products and Services: developing innovative products and services monitor this as a Group level KPI.
which promote sustainability in our customers production processes and products.
For example, the products of the Steel Flow Control, Advanced Refractories and Foundry Technologies product lines of our Engineered Ceramics CODE OF CONDUCT division reduce the levels of energy usage and material wastage in the The Company has a Code of Conduct the Cookson Code, which has production of steel and foundry castings, markets where we are the been distributed throughout the Group in over 25 languages and by worlds leading supplier of consumable ceramics used to handle molten which all our businesses are required to operate.
Similarly, our Performance Materials division is a market leader in emphasises the Companys commitment to compliance with the highest the supply of lead-free and halogen-free materials used in the production standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
The Cookson Code is reproduced of electronic equipment.
in full on the Companys website www.
In the renewable energy field, the Engineered Ceramics division is the The Cookson Code sets out clear and simple principles covering: leading supplier of crucibles used in the production of multi-crystalline Customers, Products and Services: Employees: Investors: Society and Local photovoltaic wafers used to make solar cells and the Performance Communities: Health, Safety and the Environment: Conflicts of Interest: Materials division has introduced new products for improved solar cell and Competitors.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the In recent years we have developed significant metal recycling operations attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for integrity in all in both our Precious Metals Processing and Performance Materials business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers.
Here we recover and refine our own and customers scrap solder Cookson Code defines how we must compete vigorously and honestly.
and precious metals jewellery products to produce high purity silver, gold, The Group believes it can only achieve its goals through the efforts of its tin and lead products which can be reintroduced into the supply chain.
Job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate This has involved building new recycling facilities in the US and China and employees, together with opportunities for training and development to expanding recycling capacity in Europe.
There is an increasing focus on the maximise personal potential.
Wherever they work, employees have the traceability of these metals to ensure they are obtained from right to be treated in good faith and with respect for the dignity of the environmentally and ethically sound sources, for example the Green Gold individual.
All Group companies must ensure that recruitment, training, and Conflict Metals programmes.
We work closely with our customers promotion, career development, termination and similar employmentand suppliers in support of these initiatives.
related issues are based on individual ability, achievement, experience and conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
co. uk 09 The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance reports and related performance improvement plans are regularly and transparent investor communication, as discussed in more detail in reviewed by the Chief Executive with divisional management as part of the Our Governance section of this report.
the normal business review cycle.
Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts The Chief Executives regular report to the Board includes an overview of business, to observe all national and local laws and take into account Group HS&E performance.
Any significant incidents are reported to the regional and local concerns, customs and traditions.
Chief Executive and the Board as they occur.
The Cookson Code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a Cooksons larger manufacturing locations are progressively being qualified duty of loyalty to the Group and personal interests that do, may or might for certification under ISO 14001, the international standard for appear to conflict with Group interests must be avoided at all times.
Those facilities handling potentially more hazardous materials are progressively being qualified for certification In response to the UK Bribery Act, the Companys Code of Conduct was under the international occupational health and safety management system, revised and recommunicated to all employees in 2011.
Certification to these international standards is not anti-bribery & corruption have been developed.
Together they require that appropriate for all facilities, particularly smaller ones and those with very employees and others working on behalf of the Company do not engage limited environmental impact.
in any form of bribery or corruption.
The Group now has 67 locations certified to ISO 14001 and 35 locations An anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme has been certified to OHSAS 18001. established throughout the Group, and is being implemented through a targeted face-to-face training programme.
An e-learning module has been SAFETY PERFORMANCE developed and is being rolled out globally, as local language versions Cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
The principal become available, to relevant office-based individuals in 2012.
New indicators of occupational safety and health performance that are used are employees, if relevant, will go through the training as part of their based on the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration recording induction process.
The compliance programme includes undertaking risk requirements.
Cookson operations worldwide report the days away assessments and engaging with others working on behalf of the Company incident rate the number of work-related illnesses or injuries, per 100 to ensure that their standards comply with Cooksons policies.
employees, that resulted in an employee being absent from work for at least one day.
We also track the recordable incident rate the number of Cookson is a member of the corporate supporters forum of Transparency work-related injuries and illnesses, per 100 employees, that resulted in International UK.
medical treatment beyond first aid.
EMPLOYEE HELPLINE Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business Concern Helpline telephone and e-mail facility.
This is an independent and confidential service through Cookson work-related injury and illness incident rates which employees worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in Cooksons workplaces.
3.0 days away rate HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT HS&E recordable rate Cookson regards HS&E matters as mainstream management responsibilities.
2.5 The Board has overall responsibility for the Cookson HS&E policy and for 2.0 monitoring its implementation.
Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the normal management structure for HS&E 1.5 matters in the operations under their control.
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: 1.0 Safety Performance: work-related injuries and illnesses.
0.5 Regulatory Compliance: compliance with permitted air, water, waste 0 and noise emissions criteria.
2007 2009 2010 2011 2008 Energy Usage: reducing electricity and gas consumed in our operations and hence carbon dioxide CO emissions.
2 Cooksons days away injury and illness rate has fallen from 1.53 in 2007 to 0.55 in 2011.
The Groups recordable incident rate has improved to 1.36 in The Groups HS&E policy and related information can be found on the 2011 from 2.60 in 2007.
A reporting system is in place to collect details of all HS&E-related incidents throughout the Group and to produce quarterly reports including the KPI covering work-related injury and illness rates.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business Cookson Group plc 10 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Energy use has been reduced markedly as a result of these initiatives, Regulatory actions against Cookson companies have been at a low level for notwithstanding the growth in revenue.
In 2008 energy use increased several years.
This is indicative of the emphasis on continuous HS&E relative to 2007, due to the acquisition of the Foseco operations.
Energy performance improvement across Cookson in relation to statutory use in 2008, excluding Foseco, is also shown on the graph.
A small number of enforcement notices were issued to Cookson electricity use increased marginally compared with 2010 and gas usage companies in 2011, including several that assessed minor penalties.
reduced by 2%, notwithstanding the increased level of manufacturing activity.
In connection with the European regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH, each of the Groups businesses which manufacture chemicals has filed, by the statutory deadline, appropriate pre-registrations and has otherwise complied, as applicable, with the regulatory requirements for the registration of chemical substances.
Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current or former sites.
Where remediation is required, we work with external specialists and with government authorities to ensure that remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
REDUCING ENERGY USE AND CO EMISSIONS 2 Cookson has, for many years, operated a programme aimed at reducing energy use and hence the associated emissions of CO.
The programme 2 trains employees to understand energy use and conservation principles and introduces energy audits to assist high-use sites in identifying and implementing conservation measures.
The following chart shows Cooksons electricity and gas consumption over the last five years.
Cookson electricity and gas consumption 34 300 32 250 30 200 28 26 150 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Gas Therms, millions Electricity KWh, millions Gas excluding Foseco Electricity excluding Foseco 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2
