Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility The Board considers that the management of safety, health, Corporate responsibility in brief environmental SHE, social and ethical matters forms a key element of effective corporate governance which in turn supports the long-term performance and sustainability The Board considers that the management of the business.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for SHE policy of safety, health, environmental, social and and performance and receives a report on SHE issues on a ethical matters forms a key element of effective monthly basis.
The Chief Executive has Board level responsibility corporate governance which in turn supports for overseeing these areas, which are managed in conjunction the long-term performance and sustainability with all other business risks and are covered by the internal of the business.
control systems and procedures outlined on pages 27 and 28.
Senior executives are responsible for ensuring that the SHE policy is implemented in their departments.
A dedicated SHE The Board believes that all employees should department provides support to achieve this.
be able to work safely in a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities should not harm A review of the Groups policies relating to SHE, employees the public or the environment.
and business ethics is set out below.
The Board recognises our talented and diverse Safety, health and environment workforce as a key business asset.
The Board believes that all employees should be able to work safely in a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities We operate an equal opportunities policy should not harm the public or the environment.
Everyone in the Group is expected to place the highest priority on achieving and regard this as a commitment to make these aims.
Good SHE performance goes hand in hand with full use of the talents and resources of all good business performance.
These policy objectives are achieved by: In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual identifying SHE hazards: orientation, religion, socio-economic status, assessment of the risks associated with the hazards: physical and mental ability, thinking style, implementation of appropriate control measures, experience and education.
with external guidance and advice being sought and used where appropriate: We have a formal global ethics policy which ensuring that all employees are appropriately and properly incorporates the Groups key principles and trained and understand what they are required to do: standards governing business conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
We believe that we reviewing and learning from our own and other peoples experiences and taking on board new legislation and other should treat all of these groups with honesty requirements: and and integrity.
ensuring that all employees contribute to improving SHE During the year there have been no prosecutions, performance through regular and effective communication and consultation.
fines or enforcement action as a result of non-compliance with safety, health Line management are held responsible for SHE performance in their or environmental legislation.
areas and are held accountable for the SHE performance of those reporting to them.
All employees have a responsibility to work safely at all times and to follow procedures designed to protect We are constantly striving to improve efficiency the environment and the safety and health of all employees.
in all areas of our operations, including energy use and therefore CO emissions, water 2 The Groups excellent health and safety performance has consumption and quantities of hazardous continued with only two reportable injuries during the year waste produced.
one operator was exposed to process gases and one operator suffered a twisted ankle.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group received the Royal Society for the Environmental impacts per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Presidents VICTREX PEEK sales volume tonnes Award in 2011 in recognition of sustained occupational health and safety achievement after 2011 2,860 winning ten consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards.
2010 2,535 2009 1,547 We seek to stay well ahead of relevant environmental 2008 2,626 standards.
Our manufacturing plants are regulated by 2007 2,508 Environmental Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject to close monitoring of environmental emissions.
Energy use GJ During the year there were four notifiable events: at our Hillhouse plant there was a release of acidic liquors from a tank 2011 199 into a containment sump: and at our Rotherham plant during a 2010 209 decomposition event there was a release of white fume: during 2009 255 prescribed routine air emissions monitoring the amount of 2008 196 fluoride measured exceeded agreed limits: and on another 2007 168 occasion during prescribed routine water emissions monitoring the amount of suspended solids measured exceeded agreed 3 Water use m limits.
On all occasions no environmental harm was caused.
2011 153 As in previous years, there have been no prosecutions, fines or 2010 155 enforcement actions as a result of non-compliance with safety, 2009 183 health or environmental legislation.
2008 148 2007 189 The principal environmental impacts of the Groups UK operations are set out in the adjacent charts.
The environmental impact CO emissions tonnes equivalent 2 of our overseas operations is not considered material.
2011 10.1 We are constantly striving to improve efficiency in all areas 2010 10.5 of our operations, including energy use and therefore CO 2009 12.8 2 emissions, water consumption and quantities of hazardous 2008 9.8 waste produced.
This is achieved by implementing many 2007 8.6 procedures and projects, large and small, across the business.
Hazardous waste post treatment tonnes Energy usage, water usage and CO generation per tonne of 2 product sold reduced in 2011 because of increased production 2011 0.0 plant operation and associated efficiencies.
Increased operation 2010 0.0 of our downstream processing plants and technical facilities 2009 0.0 has continued to increase overall energy usage.
2008 0.0 2007 0.2 Employees The Board recognises our talented and diverse workforce as a key business asset.
The Chief Executive, supported by the Head of Human Resources and the Managing Directors of each business unit, is responsible for overseeing employee matters.
Our business success is a reflection of the quality and skill of our people.
Victrex is committed to seeking out, retaining and developing the highest calibre employees to maximise business growth and performance.
Assessment of ongoing training needs comprises a key element of the annual appraisal process.
com 19 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility continued Employees continued to provide appropriate retirement benefits based on local laws, We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as custom and market practice.
Details of the Groups principal a commitment to make full use of the talents and resources pension schemes are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
of all our employees, and to provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships Largely as a result of the above approach, Victrex has low within the organisation.
In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, Business ethics language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic We have a formal global ethics policy which incorporates status, physical and mental ability, thinking style, experience the Groups key principles and standards governing business and education.
We believe that the wide array of perspectives conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
We believe that that result from such diversity promotes innovation and business we should treat all of these groups with honesty and integrity.
As part of this policy, Victrex gives due consideration Our policy is set out below.
to employment applications from disabled people consistent with their capabilities and provides every opportunity to Our customers employees who become disabled to continue employment We recognise that satisfied customers underpin our future with appropriate training and career development.
commercial prosperity, and that understanding and meeting their needs is key to our success.
The Group places considerable emphasis on the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them We will seek to: informed on matters relating to the performance of the Group have our products available to meet our promised delivery or relating directly to them as employees, either formally schedules and deliver them when they are needed: through the Staff Committee, or informally via staff presentations, email communication and the Group continuously improve the quality and performance of our intranet to which all employees worldwide have access.
products and services in line with customer needs: provide prompt technical support for the products that Achieving our business goals requires an environment within customers have purchased: Victrex where our employees feel engaged, empowered and capable of performing to the highest levels of their ability.
provide timely, reliable technical advice to customers on In 2010 we conducted an employee survey and 78% of staff new product applications: participated.
We measured employee engagement by asking collaborate with customers to provide innovative solutions questions about employees commitment to Victrex and their to their material requirements: and desire to continue working for us.
The survey also helped us identify opportunities to improve working environments operate to the highest ethical and business conduct standards.
and practices and support employees so they can do their best work.
Our suppliers Our commitment to our customers is underpinned by a strong In recognition of the commitment and hard work of its supply chain.
employees, Victrex recognises those who have reached 10, 20 and 30 years unbroken service, including a celebratory We will seek to: lunch to mark the event.
maintain appropriate standards of business conduct in our dealings with our suppliers: The Company supports employee share ownership and, where practical, offers the opportunity to participate in encourage suppliers to adopt similar principles and standards share schemes.
As at 30 September 2011, approximately 85% of business conduct to Victrexs own: 2010: 83% of employees worldwide were participants in where appropriate, collaborate with our suppliers to increase employee share schemes, principally as option holders under the performance, quality and efficiency of the supply chain: the Companys employee share option schemes.
We also sponsor pension plans for employees throughout the world.
adhere to the contract terms agreed with suppliers: and These comprise defined benefit or defined contribution encourage our suppliers to meet Victrexs own safety, arrangements, savings schemes and provident funds designed health and environmental standards.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our employees Our shareholders We recognise that, whilst being an asset based business, Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the business and Victrex relies heavily on the skills, experience and competence we recognise that we have responsibilities towards them as of our employees to produce our products safely and stewards of their investments.
efficiently, develop innovative new products and support business development in our existing and new markets.
We will seek to: grow our business over time to maximise shareholder value: We will seek to: communicate in an open and timely manner regarding the provide a clean, safe working environment which meets performance, position and prospects of the business: and all legislative requirements and to provide all the necessary training support for employees to operate safely within it: maintain sound systems of corporate governance to ensure that the Company is well directed and managed.
provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal opportunities for development and The environment career advancement: We recognise that our operations have an impact on the be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such environment and that we have a responsibility to minimise this.
as any form of discrimination, bullying or harassment: and We will seek to: prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our sites and encourage anyone with any form of addiction to seek help.
work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in which we operate and apply appropriate standards: and Anti-bribery minimise the environmental impacts of our operations Furthermore we are committed to ensuring adherence to the highest as far as reasonably practicable.
legal and ethical standards, in order to ensure full compliance with the latest governance legislation The Bribery Act 2010, and have Victrexs commitment to environmental issues adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery by any of our is reflected in the Annual Report which has been employees or third-party representatives who: printed on environmental paper stocks using must never provide or accept something of value to or from vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral an individual, government official, company or organisation printer certified by ISO 14001 environmental that is intended to, or could be perceived as intended to, management system and registered to EMAS influence a business decision: the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
must only give or accept gifts, hospitality or entertainment Social and community which are reasonable and appropriate and have a specific The Group participates in a range of activities within the business purpose with the intention of developing or local communities where we operate, from charitable giving, strengthening a business relationship in accordance with offering apprenticeships and supporting science education the Groups Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment guidelines: and awareness in schools, to sponsorship of undergraduates must not make political donations of any kind: and the advancement of research work at universities.
must not make facilitation payments of any kind, except if Victrex invests in recruiting and developing young people under duress or faced with potential safety issues or harm, through our advanced engineering apprenticeship programme.
in which case any facilitation payment made should be This scheme is based on national standards, is fully monitored reported and recorded as soon as practicable: and trains apprentices to fulfil a tradesman role on completion must report any suspicions of bribery immediately, either of their apprenticeship.
via the relevant line manager or through the Groups whistleblowing process, as appropriate: and In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget is distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities chosen are assured that if a genuine concern is raised will not be at risk from nominations made by employees.
National or overseas of losing their job or suffering any form of retribution as a result.
charities are supported where there is strong employee involvement.
The Group made charitable donations of 6,312 2010: 5,008 during the year, of which 1,820 2010: 2,342 were in the UK.
