30 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Enabling mobile healthcare Vodafone mHealth Solutions delivers mobile solutions which enable the accessibility, efficiency and quality of healthcare.
For example our Nompilo project, developed with GeoMed, allows community caregivers in South Africa to input and access patient information by mobile, reducing administration time and costs while improving patient care through more effective monitoring and evaluation.
The service will be trialled next in Tanzania and Spain.
Sustainable business Sustainability underpins everything we do Strategy our focus is on remote care services, including assisted living Our sustainability strategy has three components: and condition management, saving costs and improving 50% sustainable societies: helping create more sustainable patients quality of life, as well as mobile-based services that CO reduction 2 societies by providing communication services to meet increase the efficiency of clinical trials.
In emerging markets target in developed the needs of people in emerging markets and facilitating we are using mobile to improve access to medicine, for markets versus the the transition to a low carbon society: example, SMS for Life, a supply chain management solution 2007 baseline by eco-efficiency: cutting our carbon footprint in developed which helps clinics manage supplies of malaria drugs.
It has March 2020 markets, reducing carbon intensity in rapidly growing successfully improved stock management in Tanzania and emerging markets and minimising other environmental is now being rolled out in other countries in collaboration impacts: and with Novartis and other pharmaceutical companies.
ethical business: ensuring responsible, ethical and honest behaviour throughout our operations and supply chain.
Mobile communications, particularly M2M connections, have been playing a part in the transition to a low carbon society by Performance for the year facilitating the development of smart energy grids and Creating more sustainable societies improving the efficiency and emissions from vehicle travel see Our networks, products and services have been making a M2M services see page 22.
We have been working with British difference to peoples lives around the world and contributing to Gas in the UK and Italgas in Italy to provide M2M connections achieving the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.
in homes for over one million smart meters to allow consumers to monitor and reduce their electricity and gas use.
Many of our innovative services, pricing plans and products, such as Vodafone WebBox, Vodafone-branded handsets and Eco-efficiency Vodafone M-Pesa are tailored to emerging markets.
See Our total CO emissions increased by 62.6% to 1.96 million 2 Focus on key areas of growth potential: Emerging markets tonnes principally due to the inclusion of India, South Africa, on page 20 for further information.
Ghana and Qatar in our reporting, and were approximately level against last year on a like-for-like basis.
Our target is to Vodafone mHealth Solutions uses mobile communications to reduce our absolute CO emissions in developed markets by 2 improve the efficiency of healthcare.
In developed countries 50% from the 2007 financial year baseline by March 2020, and Business review Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 31 Instant Network Vodafone Foundation and Group Technology worked with Huawei and Telecoms Sans Frontieres to develop a portable GSM EDGE mobile network that provides instant mobile coverage for emergency situations in under 40 minutes, which fits into three suitcase-size boxes to be transported by plane worldwide.
in emerging markets we are setting carbon intensity targets to Sustainability governance reduce emissions per network node.
The Executive Committee is ultimately responsible for our sustainability performance and receives a formal update every We are deploying more efficient equipment across our year, as does the Board.
Each local market has a sustainability network, working with suppliers to develop more efficient management structure and a system for monitoring equipment, and using solar and wind power to generate performance and reporting to the Group.
We also influence renewable energy for off-grid base stations.
and monitor the sustainability performance of our joint ventures, outsourcing partners and other organisations with Ethical business which we work.
Our business and sustainability strategies are underpinned by our business principles and code of conduct which stress The Vodafone Sustainability Expert Advisory Panel met the importance of responsible, ethical and honest behaviour twice during the year to discuss various issues.
We engage in everything we do.
This means being a responsible a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, employer, maintaining the health and safety of our employees investors, employees, suppliers, communities, governments and contractors see People on page 32, ensuring high and regulators.
standards of labour and environmental protection in our supply chain, transparent and ethical business practices, clear Our 11th annual sustainability report, which is assured by Ernst pricing and maintaining a safe internet experience including & Young LLP using the International Standard on Assurance child safety and privacy.
In response to the proposed Engagements ISAE 3000 to check adherence to the AA1000 disclosure requirements on conflict minerals required by AccountAbility Principles Standard AA1000APS, is available the US Dodd-Frank legislation, we continue to strengthen our at www.
16 local markets also due diligence activities on the source and chain of custody of publish their own sustainability reports.
The issue of human rights and access to 1 communications has been brought into sharp focus by Key performance indicators 2011 2010 2009 continuing events in the Middle East and North Africa.
Vodafone Group Social investment Energy use GWh The Vodafone Foundation and its network of 27 local direct and indirect 4,117 3,278 3,044 foundations continue to invest in the communities in which Vodafone operates.
Specific initiatives include Mobiles for Carbon dioxide emissions Good projects which include the piloting of handsets for millions of tonnes 1.96 1.21 1.22 women at risk of domestic violence and an instant network Percentage of energy which provides rapid network coverage for emergencies, sourced from renewables 19.42 23 19 Red Alert SMS fundraising services for emergency appeals Number of phones collected for and its World of Difference programme which enables reuse and recycling millions 1.23 1.33 1.53 individuals to take paid time to work for a charity of their choice for up to a year.
We make grants to a variety of local Network equipment waste charitable organisations meeting the needs of their generated tonnes 7,473 5,870 4,944 communities.
Total donations for the year were 49.6 million Percentage of network equipment and included donations of 5.2 million towards foundation waste sent for reuse or recycling 99 98 97 operating costs.
Note: 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated Energy efficiency data collected by our mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from Solar and wind power invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations generating renewable where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figures are calculated using energy for our off-grid the kWh CO conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national 2 grid, suppliers or the International Energy Agency and for other energy base stations in Spain.
sources in each operating company.
The 2011 data includes India, Ghana, Qatar and South Africa but excludes all other Vodacom markets.
Our joint venture in Italy is included in all years.
