32 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 The Vodafone Way The Vodafone Way is about a consistent way of working, with speed, simplicity and trust.
The aim is to be an admired organisation which delivers through being customer obsessed, innovation hungry, ambitious and competitive, and one company with local roots.
We launched a global recognition initiative to identify people who are role models for The Vodafone Way and have recognised over 300 The Vodafone Way Global Heroes.
People Our people are integral to building and sustaining our success Organisation effectiveness and change Employment policies and employee relations Employees by We employed an average of around 83,900 people worldwide Our employment policies are developed to reflect local legal, location % during the year and saw an increase in the percentage of cultural and employment requirements.
We aim to be 7 women in senior roles, up from 14.5% to 16.5%.
People recognised as an employer of choice and therefore seek to 15 5 numbers have changed in different areas of the business maintain high standards and good employee relations 10 according to overall business strategy.
For example: in wherever we operate.
13 Vodacom head count was increased to support the growing 41 9 enterprise business and data: in India, we increased headcount Our goal is to create a working culture that is inclusive for all.
to grow the business: in Ghana, to drive operational efficiency, We believe that having a diverse workforce helps to meet the we reduced headcount through redundancy and outsourcing different needs of our customers across the globe.
An inclusive Germany of network operations, call centres and facilities: and in the UK culture and environment is one which respects, values, Italy we reduced back office roles and increased investment in celebrates and makes the most of the individual differences Spain customer facing activities.
we each bring to Vodafone, to the benefit of our customers, UK employees, shareholders, business partners and the wider India We have also made a number of changes to our structure, communities in which we operate.
We do not condone unfair Vodacom governance and accountabilities to help us concentrate on treatment of any kind and offer equal opportunities in all Other our main commercial and financial priorities.
These changes aspects of employment and advancement regardless of race, include the creation of a Group Commercial unit, expansion of nationality, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, the role and scope of Group Technology to oversee all disability, religious or political beliefs.
This also applies to operating companies, the consolidation of our regional agency workers, the self-employed and contract workers who structure into two distinct regions, plus reporting line changes work for us.
In our latest people survey, 87% of employees to align teams more closely with their functions.
agreed that Vodafone treats people fairly, regardless of their gender, background, age or beliefs.
Business review Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 33 The main emphasis of our global diversity strategy has been plans and key individuals, and at our monthly Executive 8 3,900 on gender diversity and to increase the number of women in Committee meetings we discuss the senior leadership roles.
Average employees management positions which has risen to 16.5%.
Efforts to increase the percentage further will continue during the A global graduate and recruitment programme was introduced 2012 financial year.
Our second priority has been to increase with a target to hire 250-300 top graduates across the Group talent from our emerging markets in Group roles and senior during the year.
By 31 March 2011 we had recruited 306.
addition, we partnered with nine leading MBA schools in Europe, Nationalities the US, Africa and India to recruit 15-20 MBA graduates for key in top senior During the year we ran a series of two-and-a-half day diversity management roles.
management roles and inclusion workshops for over 450 people from human resources teams globally to support their senior leaders who Learning and capability development had previously all attended inclusive leadership workshops in We are committed to helping people reach their full potential their local market.
through ongoing training and development.
People identify and agree their development objectives with their managers Health, safety and wellbeing every year as part of the performance dialogue process.
Local, The health, safety and wellbeing of everyone affected by our functional and global learning programmes are provided to business activities has continued to be a high priority.
The meet peoples development needs, delivered through a blend implementation of the Vodafone fatality prevention plan saw of classroom training, e-learning, coaching, mentoring and ona significant reduction, of 33%, in fatalities in India, Ghana and the-job experience.
Turkey, where there were 14 fatalities in those countries this year compared with 21 in the previous year.
Sadly, across the During the year we invested around 55 million in training Group 21 fatalities have occurred this year including four programmes.
In our most recent people survey, 72% of our fatalities that occurred within the Vodacom Group operations, employees rated the opportunity to develop the skills that which are included in the Group figure for the first time this they need to do their job well as good or very good.
The Vodafone fatality prevention plan has now been rolled out across Vodacoms subsidiaries which has seen a Inspire, our global leadership development programme for reduction in fatal incidents to one in the last six months of the high-potential managers, is in its fourth year.
So far, 124 people financial year.
Out of the Group total 17 were third-party have completed the programme.
contractors and four were Vodafone employees.
Further details can be found in the Groups 2011 sustainability report.
Performance, reward and recognition We reward employees based on their performance, potential As part of a more robust governance programme, we and contribution to the success of the business and we aim introduced external health and safety benchmark reviews.
to provide competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in These reviews evaluated health and safety management every country where we operate.
We also offer competitive systems in several countries, including New Zealand, Czech retirement and other benefit provisions which vary depending Republic, Hungary, Romania, Vodacom South Africa and Egypt.
on conditions and practices in local markets.
Culture, communications and engagement Global short-term incentive plans are offered to a large In October 2010 we carried out our sixth annual global people percentage of employees and global long-term incentive survey.
The survey measures employees level of engagement, plans are offered to our senior managers.
Both plans are paid a combination of pride, loyalty and motivation and 90% of according to individual and company performance.
We achieved an overall employee engagement score of 75 which means we have maintained a Key performance indicators high score in employee engagement for the third year running.
2011 2010 2009 1 Number of employees 83,862 84,990 79,097 Regular, consistent and open communication is fundamental Nationalities in top senior to high levels of employee engagement.
Our people have management roles 29 26 23 access to information about our business through a global intranet, with local translations and content where appropriate.
Women in top senior The Chief Executive communicates directly with all employees management roles % 16.5 14.5 13.1 through regular team meetings, email and video updates and 2 Employee turnover rates % 15 13 13 this is reinforced by local chief executive communications in Notes: all our markets.
Relevant performance and change issues are 1 Represents the average number of employees in our controlled and jointly also discussed with our employees through team meetings, controlled markets during the year.
round table discussions or through elected representative 2 Based on our controlled markets and our joint venture in Italy.
bodies in some of the European countries.
Our culture is based on The Vodafone Way.
All of our senior leadership team approximately 230 people have now been through the Leading in The Vodafone Way workshop which provides a picture of how The Vodafone Way works day-to-day.
Local markets will roll out a similar programme for all their managers.
We have also created a community of change leads, senior leaders who meet regularly to identify what more can be done to further embed The Vodafone Way.
Diversity and inclusion Talent and resourcing Our inclusive culture During the year our employees continued to perform at a high respects, values, level and we strengthened our leadership team.
This was celebrates and makes achieved partly by introducing talent identification tools and the most of the diversity partly by investing in staff with high potential and helping of our people.
them with their career planning and development.
Quarterly talent reviews are held to discuss performance, succession
