54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report The Group 1: Environment considers To reduce our energy use and carbon footprint sustainability a key part of its strategy and 2: Health & Safety recognises its To maintain a safe and importance healthy workplace in delivering shareholder value.
Our sustainability 3: Employees To attract and retain the approach is best employees embedded in our business through six key areas.
4: Communities To invest in the communities in which we operate 5: Products and technology To optimise the energy efficiency of our products and supply of products to low carbon industries 6: Ethics To conduct our business responsibly and ethically 55 Environment Communities How is this The Weir Group is committed to achieving the Weir respects the communities in which it operates highest environmental standards.
Our businesses and during 2011 a number of new and existing delivered?
have been focused in 2011 on achieving ISO 14001 projects worldwide recognised our ongoing certification with all existing businesses now fully obligation to minimise our environmental impact The Board sets the accredited.
Our operating companies have and invest in local communities.
As a global strategy for each of established sustainability committees to ensure company doing business in more than 70 countries, these areas, with the consistent best practice in environmental we have a consistent framework in place to guide responsibility for performance and identify and implement our community investment activities.
implementation resting carbon reduction projects.
with the Group Executive Products and technology Committee.
Progress Health & safety Many of the Groups products and services are and performance is Employee health and safety is of paramount used in low carbon applications such as nuclear managed and monitored importance to the Weir Group.
The Group is power generation, hydro power generation, wind through the Corporate committed to zero accident workplaces.
During power generation and flue gas desulphurisation.
Sustainability Steering 2011, we have introduced an Environmental, We aim to expand the range of products supplied Committee, comprising Health and Safety EHS excellence committee to such applications over time.
Our research specialist representation to drive best practice throughout the Group, activities, enhanced during 2011 by the and expertise from set global EHS standards and provide consistent establishment of the Weir Advanced Research across the Group.
benchmarking of health and safety performance.
Centre, are geared towards developments in During 2011, the materials technology and reducing energy usage, Employees Committee was led by ensuring that Weir innovation activity is aligned with One of the foundations of a sustainable business the Group Legal and customer demands and corporate sustainability is the ability to recruit, develop and retain good Commercial Director.
Our Engineering Excellence Committee quality people.
During 2011, substantial investment continually aims to enhance energy efficiency was made in establishing a strong development in our products both through the design and framework to ensure a robust talent pipeline exists manufacturing process and in customer operations.
to serve the present and future needs of the business.
The Weir Leadership Programme, Ethics Emerging Leaders Programme and the Graduate Doing business in the right way is the only way in Development Framework provide appropriate which the Weir Group operates.
The Group Code of development opportunities for employees at Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption training and an different stages of their careers, with the shared ethics hotline ensure that all employees understand how to adhere to the Groups zero tolerance policy aim of supporting the needs of a growing and on ethical breaches.
We recognise that corporate increasingly complex organisation.
Support for behaviour is a factor that is taken increasingly technical and engineering skills also progressed into account by investors, existing and potential in 2011, with the online Weir University accessible customers and present and future employees.
to employees across our operations, facilitating the delivery of best practice.
Ensuring Weir operates with the highest standards of ethical behaviour is a key focus for all leaders in our business.
56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 1: Environment The Group aims to continuously reduce its impact Our carbon emissions are reported in accordance on the environment in two main ways.
First, by with the principles of the World Business Council improving the environmental performance of for Sustainable Development and the World our operations and secondly, through time by Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol enhancing the energy efficiency of our products.
The GHG Protocol categorises emissions as follows: Our main environmental impacts include greenhouse gas GHG emissions: material and solvent usage: and waste products.
Emissions are LPG Scope 1 Fuel you burn.
identified and managed through our Environmental Natural Gas Scope 2 Management System EMS which is certified to ISO Petrol Fuel burnt for you.
We monitor upcoming legislation Scope 3 Flights Emissions from services and share best practice across our operations.
you use and products you produce Contractors ISO 14001 Electricity All our continuing operations are ISO 14001 Raw materials accredited or, in the case of new acquisitions, Waste disposal a plan is put in place to achieve accreditation during the integration process.
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification for an The Weir Group reports on its Scope 1 and environmental management system which 2 emissions, as defined in the GHG Protocol.
helps organisations achieve environmental Approximately 5% of the emissions data provided and economic goals as well as assisting in the is derived, or partly derived, from estimates.
It provides assurance that our environmental performance The Groups total carbon footprint for 2009, 2010 meets and will continue to meet legal and and 2011 for continuing operations is as follows: environmental policy requirements.
Total CO2 tonnes 000 Carbon footprint 200 The Weir Group is an energy intensive business, 165 due to the requirement for electricity and gas 150 133 120 for industrial manufacturing operations across a 100 global footprint.
However, when compared with sector peers against the latest available data, 50 we rank above average in terms of our tonnage by turnover performance.
2009 2010 2011 The Groups absolute emissions have increased year on year.
This increase is attributable to the The Groups total carbon footprint by turnover for growth of the Group during 2011 and its increased the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 is as follows: output.
On a tonnage by turnover basis, the Group tCO2e m has decreased its carbon footprint this year by 12% compared with 2010.
100 85 82 80 The majority of the Groups greenhouse gas 72 emissions come from electricity and gas use at 60 our facilities 67%, 2011.
Our foundries, the most 40 energy intensive area of our operations, produce 1 66,600 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 20 CO2e, equal to 40% of the Group total.
2010 2011 2009 In 2011, sustainability committees at each of 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 the Groups operating companies have been equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming challenged to identify and implement three carbon Potential GWP of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, emission reduction projects, adding new projects as as defined by the Kyoto Protocol.
The GWP of CO2 is 1 1 tonne each is completed.
Over time this will start to have CO2 1 tonne CO2e.
For other greenhouse gases in the basket an impact on the Groups overall carbon footprint.
of six, including refrigerants, the GWP is relative to CO2 over a 100-year time horizon eg one tonne of the refrigerant R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of the potential climate change impact.
57 2011 Foundry recycling Environmental initiatives The Groups five foundries recycled 20,000 tonnes Weir SPM, Fort Worth of metal in 2011 of which 18,000 tonnes is metal A recycling programme was introduced at Weir recycled internally.
This means that on average 61% 1,436 SPM to reduce the amount of waste going to of the metal poured at our foundries is recycled.
tonnes of wood recycled landfill.
To date, that has resulted in a reduction The amount recycled internally has increased by at our foundries of 500 tonnes, including 238 tonnes of wood 24% on 2010.
The results of the foundry recycling and 175 tonnes of paper and cardboard.
can be seen in the following graph: Weir Minerals Brasil Foundry recycling 000 tonnes At Weir Minerals Brasil, water consumption has 20,000 been reduced from 8m per tonne of metal cast 20 2009 tonnes of metal recycled in our to 5m per tonne.
In addition, the sites biomass 2010 18 foundry operations 2011 boiler uses waste wood which would otherwise 16 be sent to landfill.
14 12 Weir Minerals Europe 10 Reducing the environmental impact on the local 8 24% community led to Weir Minerals Europe investing 6 increase in internal recycling in silencers for all external fans and the planting at our foundries 4 of 50 trees on the site to reduce noise to the 2 surrounding community.
Weir Gabbioneta Weir Gabbioneta operates two production sites 500 that are three kilometres apart.
Transporting people between the two sites was previously carried out tonnes of landfill waste Carbon reduction commitment CRC by car but in 2011, was replaced by six electric recycled at Weir SPM, The carbon reduction commitment CRC energy Fort Worth quadricycles, with an estimated reduction in carbon efficiency scheme is the UKs mandatory climate dioxide emissions equivalent to three tonnes a year.
change and energy saving scheme.
The scheme, targets large organisations whose emissions are currently not included in any European energy trading schemes or Climate Change Agreements.
The Group is a participant in the CRC scheme, and during 2010 the UK operations started detailed monitoring of all electricity, gas and diesel use for the CRC scheme.
The first phase footprint report and the first annual report of our emissions under the CRC scheme was completed in July 2011.
The UK businesses affected by the CRC will be required to monitor their energy use and buy allowances accordingly in forthcoming years as the scheme rolls out.
The Gabbioneta Quadricycle Weir Minerals Peru In March 2011, the Peruvian Environment Minister awarded Weir Minerals Peru with first place in the waste management category in national awards for the most eco-efficient enterprise in Peru for its work in recycling glass, paper, wood and used electronic equipment for local charities.
58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 2: Health & Safety The safety of Weirs employees is the highest priority for every member of the EHS Excellence Committee Senior Management Group.
The Group is committed to an accident-free health During 2011, Weir established the Environment, and safety environment based on the belief that all accidents are preventable.
Health and Safety EHS excellence committee to focus on EHS issues across the Group.
The committee has Group Executive Committee level The core elements of our approach to safety are: leadership through the director of operations support and development and involves senior an EHS system designed specifically for the applications managers from across the Group from operational, we operate.
human resource and legal functions.
Since it was established, the committee has led adoption of a behavioural safety ethos which promotes the development of a Weir EHS System which has risk assessment of all tasks, no matter how routine they been deployed throughout all operating companies.
A leading global consultancy has undertaken a programme of external audits of EHS performance enforcement of a clear chain of command and from which global minimum standards will be responsibility in EHS issues.
developed and improvement plans created and implemented to bring all businesses in line with robust improvement plans at business, divisional and the requirements of the Weir EHS System.
In addition, the committee appointed divisional champions to monitor and drive the environmental implementation of best practice by sharing effective and health and safety agenda, ensuring employees initiatives across the Group.
understand best practice and their EHS obligations.
The committee has also developed the planned introduction in 2012 of a Weir behavioural safety system to reinforce the culture of zero tolerance to workplace accidents.
Weir Environment, Health and Safety EHS System The development of a Weir EHS system began during 2011 to set out global standards for areas including behavioural safety, operational control of risk, fire and environment.
It is deployed to deliver the following outcomes: Deliver a set of consistent minimum EHS standards across Weir companies.
Develop measurable and proactive indicators of EHS performance.
Develop methodology to identify top EHS performers to share best practice approaches across the Group.
The EHS excellence committee 59 OHSAS 18001 Case studies The Groups policy is that all its operations will be Hand, wrist and finger injury OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Interactive workshops took place during the year Assessment Series accredited.
OHSAS 18001 to establish the main issues in relation to hand, was developed by the British Standards Institute wrist and finger injuries a common cause of as a health and safety management framework injury throughout the industry.
Three main factors allowing organisations to ensure that they underpinning health and safety in this area were consistently and accurately identify hazards established: body mechanics ergonomics, tooling and risks within their operations.
selection and job safety analysis Point of Work Our existing businesses have achieved accreditation risk assessment.
and all new acquisitions have detailed plans to Safe acts audits achieve OHSAS 18001 within an agreed timescale.
Safe Acts Audits focus on observing an employee Lost Time Accidents for 15 minutes in their working environment and the Weir is focused on a zero-accident culture.
The behaviours the employee is demonstrating.
Team Groups key measure of safety performance is the leaders and supervisors of the pump assembly number of lost time accidents LTAs.
The Group team at Weir SPMs Fort Worth facility conduct adopts a more stringent lost time measurement these audits weekly, completing an average of 40 criterion than the industry norm of three days, audits per week.
The data gathered from the audits choosing a definition of incidents resulting in lost is used to establish where additional behavioural time of more than four hours.
The results for 2009, training is required.
2010 and 2011 are as follows: 60 55 50 40 40 30 26 20 10 2009 2010 2011 A safety debrief for members of Weir SPMs pump assembly team The reasons underlying the rise include record Weir Minerals North America activity levels across our operations alongside Weir Minerals in Madison, Wisconsin provides a higher workforce headcount with around 2,000 employee information on health issues such as new employees joining the Group.
breast cancer awareness, smoking cessation and diabetes.
They also run safety tool box meetings With effect from 2011, the Group has started and operate an Employee Assistance Programme to report its safety performance based on Total EAP which provides employers and employees Incident Rate TIR.
This measures medical the opportunity to manage issues before they treatment of any kind required by employees, become serious and impair work performance.
It is a standard The EAP provides employees the opportunity safety measurement methodology widely employed to seek treatment for specific problems such as across industry.
The 2012 annual report will publish depression, anxiety and marital or family problems.
the Groups performance against this measure.
Weir BDK Weir BDK in Hubli, India offers all employees access to an occupational health centre which provides various medical checkups, including eye test and colour vision, pulmonary function tests, audiometric tests, chest x-rays and physical fitness.
The centre also offers the local community subsidised medicines and treatment and organises health and blood donation camps.
60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 3: Employees The Group recognises the importance of During 2011, important steps were put in place motivated and effective people to ensure the to establish a comprehensive management and sustainable success of the business.
We are leadership development framework for the Group, committed to attracting and retaining the best providing a talent pipeline capable of supporting people available for the role and developing them the present and future needs of the business.
Weir Leadership Programme The principles we apply are to: The Weir Leadership Programme was launched at the start of 2011 to develop high performing Never deny development or promotion on the leaders and strategic awareness in order to further basis of any form of discrimination.
leverage the delivery of Weirs strategic agenda.
Programme participants are drawn from the Senior Encourage and support our employees to achieve Management Group SMG with around 100 senior their potential.
managers taking part so far.
The SMG is a group Identify the training and development needs of of around 300 senior employees from across the ourselves and our teams and find ways to fulfil Weir Group who are key to the development and those requirements.
delivery of the Groups strategy.
The programme is designed around practical business challenges Use the Weir Group personal development and peers from across the Groups operations plan PDP to identify and develop high collaborate and support each other in facilitated potential individuals.
All Senior Management Group Employ and retain people who share our values members will participate in the programme, and behaviours.
which runs until the end of 2013.
Work to maintain a business environment where Emerging Leaders Programme individuals feel valued and respected.
The Emerging Leaders Programme was launched in 2011 for nominated managers and employees Support individuals in developing roles.
who are identified as potential senior Weir leaders of the future.
Designed in conjunction with a leading business school, the programme is tailored to delivering the Weir Way and covers critical management areas including leading people in organisations, financial management, commercial awareness, operations management, innovation and project management.
Completion of the programme leads to a postgraduate Certificate in Management and the opportunity for participants to obtain a Masters in Business Administration MBA qualification.
61 Graduate Development Framework Weir University During 2011, Weir recruited a total of 75 graduates The Weir University was launched at the end of 100 from a variety of professional disciplines, including March to provide all employees with online access senior managers take part engineering, across the Group.
The Graduate through the Weir Intranet homepage to continuous in the Weir Leadership Development Framework provides a consistent professional development resources.
With an initial Programme development programme to provide graduates focus on Weirs areas of technological competitive within Weir with a broad knowledge and advantage and supporting engineering skills and understanding of the business.
resources, courses on metallurgy, failure analysis, corrosion and finite element analysis FEA were A successful pilot graduate development programme 75 the first to be made available.
took place in September for 12 nominated graduates graduates recruited in 2011 from the UK, Canada, India, Italy, North America, In addition, a new learning management system is and South Africa, enabling participants to gain a available for the majority of staff across the group, wider understanding of the Weir Group and share providing access to online learning courses, books, in joint development activities.
Weir Aspire Weir Aspire, an HR Information system, was To see how serious made available to all members of the Senior Management Group and Head Office employees.
the Group is about our The introduction of this system is to help bring a consistent and more efficient way of capturing development as graduates key employee information, carrying out annual performance and development reviews and really motivated me.
I realised supporting the succession planning process.
that graduates are not just young people who are at the bottom of the chain but they are regarded as the future of this organisation.
Pauline Mohlala, Graduate, Weir Minerals Africa The graduates who attended the pilot graduate development programme 62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 3.
Employees continued Succession planning Case studies The initiatives rolled out in 2011 combine to establish Weir Minerals Africa a robust management and leadership development Graduates with Weir Minerals Africa provide framework.
This framework, in part, is designed community service to non-profit charitable to contribute to the Groups succession planning organisations as part of their development process across its businesses, by identifying and programme.
In 2011, the graduates collected matching at an early stage, where human capital clothing, books and food from Weir staff which is required to enhance the Groups capability.
were donated to the Kingdom Life orphanage.
Particular focus has been brought to succession The graduates also provided maths lessons to planning across the Senior Management Group, groups of disadvantaged students in five local the key leaders across the organisation.
Senior Management Group During 2011 further regional meetings were held of the Senior Management Group in Europe, North America, and Malaysia.
These meetings provided the chief executive with the platform to communicate face-to-face with the global leadership team and discuss and drive forward the strategic agenda.
Group conference The theme of the 2011 Group conference was Accelerating Growth.
Weir Managing Directors and other senior managers came together for two days of strategy workshops and plenary sessions to establish a shared vision for delivering the next phase in the development of the Group.
Engineering Directors The global Engineering Directors Conference Two of the graduates helping the children of the in Sydney, Australia brought together senior Kingdom Life orphanage engineers from across the Group to discuss how collaboration and innovation can be advanced in Weir India Weirs engineering activities.
The event provided a Under the Weir Higher Education Scholarship focus for sharing the 2011 work of the Engineering Scheme established in 2010, a number of children Excellence Committee and developing the of employees receive scholarships towards their technology agenda for 2012 and beyond.
Weir Group SMG regional meeting, Kuala Lumpur 2011 63 Sustainability report 4: Communities Weir recognises its obligation to respect and invest Charitable donations in the communities where its operations have an The total charitable donations of Group companies 35,000 impact.
Our investment should have a sustainable made during the financial year was 422,300 invested in building a new impact on a community, should be aligned with the 2010: 333,900, as shown below: school block in Gokul, India sustainability goals of our business and delivered together with local organisations.
Community 77% Our opportunities to invest are identified through Education 422,300 contact with local people and organisations.
We 16% work closely in delivery with local charities and donated to charity by the group Health 10% companies in 2011 community groups.
Our Code of Conduct sets out that the Weir Group companies will be good citizens by: Respecting the local environment.
Setting an example by behaving in a manner The Groups Code of Conduct prohibits political consistent with the Code at all times.
contributions and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
Supporting local communities who need help through charitable contributions and employees giving of their free time.
Case studies Informing and updating communities about Education ongoing projects in their areas.
The Weir Group PLC Respecting the traditions, cultures and laws of During 2011 the Weir Group sponsored the the countries and the local communities where purchase of eight Rapman 3D kits for use in the we operate.
Young Engineers and Science Clubs throughout Scotland.
The Royal Academy of Engineering, the Trying to employ local people in our businesses Scottish Council for Development and Industry wherever possible.
and the University of Strathclyde Department of Listening to the concerns of the local communities Design, Manufacture and Engineering Management and, where possible, acting in a way that deals invited the clubs to participate in an innovative rapid with their concerns.
prototyping project to build the 3D printers using the kits and then come up with a project to use the Key themes for our community investment 3D printers to manufacture anything from jewellery are education and health.
These are enduring to parts for underwater robots.
The project aimed priorities for communities worldwide and focused to motivate and excite school pupils and improve investment, whether at early years or adult level, young peoples knowledge of, and attitude to, can make a profound difference to individuals and 21st century manufacturing.
Lord Smith, Chairman, visiting a school in Aberdeen to see one of the Rapman 3D kits used by aspiring young engineers in Scotland 64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 4.
Communities continued Weir India Weir Minerals Chile Since 2008 Weir India has supported two local Ignacio Carrera Pinto is a school for underprivileged transit schools for children rescued from child children, in San Bernardo, near Weir Minerals main labour.
The support is partly financial, supporting facility in Santiago.
It has 100 students from 5 to teacher and other staff salaries and also includes 17 years old, most of whom are socially vulnerable.
the time spent by volunteers amongst Weir India Weir provides support in several ways, including employees.
The ongoing financial commitment improving the school bathrooms and infrastructure, benefits around 100 children studying in these collecting and distributing used books and staff two schools.
In late 2011 Weir India alongside volunteering to paint the school.
two NGOs, Paraspara Trust and Biocon Foundation held two free health camps in the communities surrounding the transit schools.
The camps encouraged good health practices amongst the children and their families.
The Group entered a partnership in 2011 with a local authority in India to support the infrastructure needs of a primary school in Gokul village, near the operations of Weir BDK.
Weir has invested 35,000 in the building of a new block at the school and other infrastructure improvements.
Weir also established a programme to teach English with this and other school activities supported by volunteers from Weir BDK.
Weir Minerals staff at Ignacio Carrera Pinto school, Santiago, Chile The mere fact of going to paint a small school knowing the realities of the children studying there meant I was doing good for the community and the children at risk.
Sergio Pizarro, Weir Minerals Chile Keith Cochrane, Weir CEO inaugurates the new school block in Gokul village, Hubli, India 65 Sustainability report 5: Products and technology Developing new products that are more Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC environmentally friendly offers a competitive The Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC 42% advantage to ourselves and to our customers.
was established in March this year at the University of Power & Industrial Division Additionally, many of our existing products of Strathclyde in Glasgow.
The establishment of input in 2011 came from within and services contribute to environmental WARC marks a new approach to innovation for the low carbon sector protection in critical areas such as power Weir and is expected to provide a pipeline of new generation and service.
product innovation and significant improvements in existing product performance.
Several projects The Groups focus on the renewable energy are already underway, focusing on blue sky sector continues and within the Power & Industrial 18.4m innovations in the areas of coatings and flow Division 42% of input 40% in 2010 came from control.
Weir funded the centre with an initial spent on research and products and services supplied to low carbon investment of 1.9m over three years.
This development during 2011 industries in nuclear, hydro and biomass.
funding creates four PhD studentships per year, Research and development underscoring Weirs commitment to education and advancing engineering skills in the UK.
During the financial year, the Group spent 18.4m Engineering Excellence Committee 2010: 14.8m on research and development.
The Engineering Excellence Committee is The desire of our customers for materials responsible for the implementation of engineering technology and innovation that will extend product best practice across the divisions.
operating life, enhance safety performance and reduce energy costs, ensures that Weirs research During 2011, the Committee was involved activities and corporate sustainability goals are in a number of projects that seek to improve closely aligned.
environmental performance including using advanced design techniques to maximise pump efficiency and power use and ensuring high recycling potential in the materials used in wear resistant parts.
Continuously seeking efficiency at the pump technology centre in Sydney 66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 5.
Products and technology continued Case studies Sustainability engineers During 2011 Weir appointed two sustainability RTS Alcan Lochaber engineers.
A key focus for these individuals is to Weir Power & Industrial Alloa played a major role introduce and develop sustainability improvements in delivering the completion of a powerhouse in the Groups operating businesses.
Sustainability modernisation project for RTS Alcan for their engineers work across the business to identify Lochaber aluminium production facility.
and implement changes to enhance areas such as The project required the replacement of 12 twin energy management, waste disposal and recycling.
jet Pelton machines, originally installed in 1929.
The project was completed in three phases between 2009 and 2011 and used the Weir Power & Industrial designed Cooling Water System incorporating the use of an environmentally friendly, non-toxic heat transfer fluid product based on refined vegetable extracts instead of more toxic anti-freeze protection products normally selected for this type of application.
RTS Alcans aluminium production facility, Lochaber, Scotland 67 Sustainability report 6: Ethics Driving Growth the Weir Way means doing This group of employees have decision-making business at all times in an ethical and transparent responsibilities in regard to customers, suppliers, manner.
Since the launch of the Code of Conduct sales agents and other third parties and accordingly in December 2010, the chief executive has have a higher risk of exposure to bribery and other reinforced this message in written and face-tocorrupt practices.
face communications with employees worldwide, Two e-learning modules were rolled out in 2011, making clear that the highest standards of integrity one covering the UK Bribery Act, including the must be maintained, consistent with the Code.
prevention of bribery and corruption, and the The UK Bribery Act, which came into force during second addressing the Code of Conduct.
In total, 2011, affects all employees, not only those based in over 1,600 employees have completed the two the UK, and training has been delivered around the modules.
Monitoring controls are in place to ensure global operations to ensure employees are aware training is completed in a timely manner and to of the Acts requirements.
ensure new employees are added to training participant lists as required.
A Code of Conduct Code of Conduct e-learning plan is in place for 2012.
An online The Code of Conduct provides a clear framework on certification process enables these employees which to base decision making and provides details to certify on a quarterly basis that they are in of what is expected from each employee to maintain compliance with the Code of Conduct.
the Groups high standards of ethical behaviour.
The Group has also conducted a number of Town Hall meetings to explain the requirements of the The main purposes of the Code of Code of Conduct to all employees.
During 2011, Conduct are to: these took place in Russia, China, India, Indonesia, Italy and South America.
Further meetings will be Set out clearly the behaviour undertaken in 2012. expected from employees and stakeholders The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through an ongoing series Provide guidelines to help with of communications, for example: applying Weirs values at all times The Group conference and all regional and functional conferences Enable employees to raise a concern or ask a question Induction days for new executives if they are in doubt.
Training courses for the SMG As part of the 100 day integration The Code of Conduct covers bribery and corruption and other areas such as respecting communities plan for new acquisitions.
The Code of Conduct is written in easy to understand language with practical examples in each section.
It has been made available in a number of different languages for global employees.
A mandatory e-learning training programme exists for the following employees, including: The Senior Management Group All sales and marketing employees All purchasing employees.
68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Sustainability report 6.
Ethics continued All sales agent agreements have been reviewed Supply chain during 2011 and are being updated, subject to The Weir Group sources components, materials contractual restrictions, as necessary to reflect and services on a world-wide basis.
Our suppliers the Code of Conduct and anti-bribery & corruption are an integral part of the Groups business and requirements.
Sales agents are subject to formal our relationships with them are based on achieving and ongoing due diligence prior to appointment best performance, product, delivery, service and or reappointment.
They must also confirm their total cost.
compliance with the Code of Conduct in regard to We recognise that our supply chain activities have business conducted on behalf of the Weir Group.
a broad impact and that our responsibilities extend In addition, there is an ongoing programme of beyond our own operations and into those of our work across the Group to communicate the Code suppliers.
The Group has a Supply Chain Policy to of Conduct to third party suppliers with expanded ensure that suppliers to the Group comply with or assessment criteria to ensure new suppliers comply exceed certain standards in connection with their with the ethical requirement of the Groups supply workforce, legal compliance, health and safety, chain policy.
business ethics and environmental standards.
Our key supplier partners are expected to either have Gifts & Hospitality accreditation to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 or During 2011, the Groups policies were updated be able to demonstrate a plan to achieve it within and communicated to all businesses to ensure a reasonable amount of time.
that employees have clarity on the provision and acceptance of gifts and hospitality.
In addition, During 2011, we have developed our new supplier an online gifts and hospitality approval and register assessment criteria to address compliance with system was implemented across the Group which the Group Supply Chain Policy.
We audit our main is mandatory for all employees.
existing suppliers annually against the requirements of the policy and other Group standards, particularly Ethics Hotline in the area of health and safety.
This is a particular In support of the Code of Conduct, an independent focus on best cost countries where we increase and confidential helpline is available for employees our sourcing activities.
We will not deal with to call with any concerns that they have concerning suppliers who, on the basis of the information unethical behaviour.
Calls to the helpline are free available to Weir, fail to adhere to these and lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
In total, 16 complaints were received during 2011.
After investigation, no action was required in 12 We recognise that our corporate responsibility also cases, with the remainder addressed through reflects the way we behave towards our suppliers.
further training and communication improvements The Group does not operate a standard policy or disciplinary processes.
in respect of payments to suppliers and each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 30 December 2011, the Group had an average of 70 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
