1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Employees Employees The Group is proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
The Group employs approximately 16,000 people, Employee engagement primarily in the UK, and it is proud of its long Employee engagement is supported through clear historyofbeing regarded as a responsible and communication of the Groups performance and respectedemployer.
This information is cascaded through team briefings, large employee events, intranet sites and Equal opportunities regular e-newsletters.
This approach and the Groups The Board believes in creating throughout the open management style encourages employees Company a culture that is free from discrimination tocontribute to business development.
and harassment and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives full Employee share ownership and fair consideration to applications for employment The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs when these are received from disabled people and Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme employs disabled people whenever suitable vacancies Sharesave Scheme which provides employees arise.
Should an employee become disabled when withthe opportunity to acquire shares in the working for the Company, efforts are made to Company.
Approximately 885 employees participate continue their employment and retraining is provided, inthe scheme.
Training and development We recognise the importance of training and development to support employee satisfaction andpromote a knowledgeable workforce.
Ourprogrammes enable our staff to grow with the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high internal succession rates.
During the year, we also successfully established agraduate scheme in our Travel head office and anapprenticeship scheme within our Swindon andBirmingham distribution centres.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 19
