Directors report and business review Social and environmental matters Social and environmental matters Our corporate responsibility strategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage the environmental and social issues which are most material to the Group and our stakeholders.
We continue to operate a robust corporate Suppliers responsibility CR programme that is closely aligned Ethical trading to the Group strategy.
The management of social and We are committed to good labour standards and environmental matters is embedded into day-to-day respecting the environment in our supply chain.
This year we were OurSupplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights policy delighted to retain a Platinum ranking in the annual states our expectations of our suppliers.
Weoperate an Business in the Community CR Index.
active programme whereby we engagewith suppliers to encourage regular performance improvements.
We operate our CR programme through four key areas: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East Community.
Our CR strategy is based on ensuring Sourcing office carries out a regular programme thatwe effectively manage the environmental and ofsupplier audits to monitor labour standards.
social issues which are most material to the Group Theyvisiteach new factory to assess its performance andto each business unit.
The Board carry out annual and, where necessary, agree an action plan for reviews to ensure the successful implementation improvement with the factory.
We provide support as ofthe CR strategy and to approve our targets for suppliers make these improvements, and ensure that thecoming year.
The following section provides all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers of anintroduction to our CR work during the year.
UK agents are audited at least every two years.
Moredetailed information, notably key performance We continue to engage with suppliers to support them data and future targets, is available in our full as they address key labour standards issues.
During CRreport, available at www.
the year, we have focused on two key issues: health Marketplace and safety standards and worker representation.
These projects have been well-received by some Customers ofour key Chinese suppliers and we plan to engage Good customer service is a primary focus of our more suppliers in the year ahead.
Like any retailer, we understand that WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
customer satisfaction is a key driver of business performance.
To ensure we continue to meet our Forest sourcing customers expectations we regularly assess the It is our continuing objective that all virgin service we offer by conducting reviews.
The results i. e. non-recycled material used in our own-brand ofour twice-yearly Customer Satisfaction Monitor products is from known, legal, well-managed and suggest that customer satisfaction has remained credibly certified forests.
This year, we increased consistently high over the last four years, with the thevolume of material from recycled and certified friendliness and helpfulness of staff ranking forests to 72 per cent, up from 69 per cent in 2010. especially high.
These surveys ensure we focus Wehave also made further progress with product onthekey elements of service that are important labelling so that it is clearly visible to our customers toour customers, including queue management, when a product has been certified under the Forest andpolite, efficient and accurate transactions.
We take seriously the responsibility for the products Payment policy for suppliers we sell, and we are committed to listening to our The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, customers feedback.
Our Marketing Code of Practice which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for sets out the standards we follow in our promotional Buyers, is to agree the terms of payment in advance activity, marketing and advertising.
In practice this inline with normal trade practice and, provided a ensures we sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, supplier performs in accordance with the agreement, meet legal standards and are not described in a to abide by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may be misleading manner, particularly when marketing obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford tochildren.
The Companys trade creditors figure as at the balance sheet date was WH Smith PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements equivalent to 56 days 2010: 53 days based on the Community ratio of average trade creditors to the amounts paid As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our during the year to trade suppliers.
community investment on supporting education andlife-long learning.
Over the year we maintained our Environment commitment to invest one per cent of pre-tax profits We recognise that good environmental management into local communities, resulting in 933,121 also makes good business sense.
Included in this figure to reducing the environmental impact of our business, arecash donations and gifts in kind.
These donations and measure our performance each year.
totalled 162,260 2010: 184,600, and were made tolocal schools and registered charities including The energy used within our stores accounts for the theWoodland Trust and the National Literacy Trust.
majority of our carbon footprint and improving energy Over the year, donations made to charities through efficiency remains a focus.
This year, we reduced our thesale of products totalled 151,318 2010: 164,700, energy consumption by three per cent per square foot including Children in Need, Barnardos, Age UK, across the Group.
In High Street, we have undertaken Makea Wish Foundation and Help the Hospices.
trials of different lighting equipment to reduce levels Lastly, we donated significant commercial support of consumption in the year ahead.
Our Travel business toour biggest charity partners, including World Book continues to work with our largest landlords to look Day and Booktrust: these donations totalled 390,021 for opportunities to improve energy efficiency in that 2010: 454,500. part of the estate.
The full extent of our community investment activity, As part of our carbon management programme, measured according to the London Benchmarking wemeasure the CO2 emissions associated with the Group model, is outlined in the Groups CR report.
transport of packages moved from distribution centres to our stores.
In line with these efforts, we increased The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent our collaboration with suppliers and other companies registered charity, actively supports employees that to reduce the miles driven to transport our products.
are involved with charitable organisations in their local communities, as well as working in partnership We recognise that reducing the waste produced with the Company to support literacy projects.
byouroperations is another important element ofourenvironmental responsibility.
Our waste Promoting literacy is at the heart of our community reduction programme focuses on increasing the engagement programmes.
We are working with the levelof recycling at our stores and distribution centres, National Literacy Trust to provide courses for parents aswell as reducing the packaging waste fromour who want to develop skills to support their childrens products.
Over the year we made good improvements literacy development.
This year over 200 families took in both of these key areas.
We also continue to part in courses in schools across the UK.
We also encourage customers to refuse or reuse carrier bags.
operate two further literacy programmes both focused on enhancing library resources, with our Health and safety Travel business donating library resources to a We are committed to maintaining high standards number of hospitals where WHSmith has stores, ofhealth and safety.
The management team, andmany of our High Street stores donating books supported by professional safety advisers, toschools across the UK.
monitorskey safety performance indicators and anannual report detailing trends, performance We also continue to raise funds for charities and good andrecommendations is presented to the Board.
causes through the promotion and sale of tailored Thebusiness also has a Health and Safety Committee products in our stores, such as charity Christmas that is comprised of representatives and professional cards and stationery items.
We have set a target to Political donations reduce reportable accidents recorded across the It is the Companys policy not to make political Group by five per cent per employee by 2013, based on donations and no political donations or EU political 2010 levels, and we are making good progress to meet expenditure were made in the year 2010: nil.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 21
