Our people Achieving high levels of employee engagement is key to the Companys future success.
into the way we do business and Our development strategy and we are seeing real change, with framework has been endorsed employee engagement levels rising with the Skills in the Workplace significantly over the last two years.
Business in the Community 2010 We believe these improvements Big Tick Award.
The quality of have been driven by a strong drive our training was also recognised internally for robust action planning with a National Training Award in by all teams.
2010 which is sponsored by the Department for Business Innovation We will continue to invest in our and Skills in association with employee survey so that we can Investors in People.
learn more about how we can provide a great place to work Leadership for our employees.
2010 saw us launch a new performance and progression Development review framework.
We believe that At Whitbread, we believe we have effective performance and talent a responsibility to provide quality management practices encourage induction and training programmes, engagement and realise potential, whilst doing what we can to help leading to tangible business meet the government target of benefits.
This approach gives us ensuring 95% of the adult working great insight to anticipate our future population achieve functional people development and resourcing YOUR SAY literacy and numeracy skills.
This is needs and helps us continue to We are now in our third year of a key element of our commitment embed an effective succession YOUR SAY, Whitbreads employee to the Skills Pledge and enables our culture into the business.
The feedback we talented individuals to progress with appoint 80% of our management have gathered has enabled our Whitbread.
We have four key parts roles internally.
business to understand in more to our core team member learning depth what matters to our team and development: Our Whitbread employer brand members and how they feel about The Whitbread Apprenticeship We are now attracting and working for Whitbread.
Programme: hiring talented individuals to Skills for Life literacy and be managers for the future via With this valuable insight we have numeracy: our Whitbread careers website been able to work closely with our specialist technical skills www.
employees to discuss common development: and Our Whitbread employer brand themes across the Whitbread management skills and is growing in popularity and Group whilst also encouraging development.
focus on the key priorities within individual teams.
From a Group We have achieved around 2,500 We have also launched our Get perspective we have introduced externally nationally recognised On communications programme measures to understand and react qualifications to date since the designed to inform those starting to engagement priorities that programme was launched in out on their careers about the feature across all our brands, and 2009.
General managers recognise opportunities to progress with from an individual team perspective the benefits to investing in their Whitbread.
Information on The we have implemented team people and bringing to life future Whitbread Journey can be found at action plans.
This has enabled our career prospects including further www.
managers to take ownership for management development.
the engagement and motivation of their teams, demonstrating to our The success of our internal employees that we are listening and management development responding to their feedback.
programme, named Shooting Stars, has continued to grow.
We continue to see encouraging We have recently launched the progression in our employee new Kitchen Manager and Head response rates.
In 2010 Whitbreads Chef Development programmes employee response rate stood and continue to evolve our at 77%.
Our employee survey management programmes to has now become embedded meet our future business strategy.
