Our customers The customer heartbeat is central to our success and it is vital that we understand what our customers need and then ensure that we provide them with it.
Our aim continues to be to build the best large-scale hospitality brands in the world by becoming Employee Customer Shareholder the most customer-focused engagement value organisation there is and weve heartbeat made good progress towards that ambitious goal during the last year.
We now understand our customers better than ever before.
We have completed a customer segmentation project for all of our key brands and the insight we get from our customers and potential Providing customers is now at the heart of outstanding Driving efficiencies our decision-making.
Creating a great value and and investing place to work making everyday in growth for The customer heartbeat for our people experiences feel long-term On the right is a schematic, which who care for our special so that shareholder value illustrates our philosophy that if customers our customers and customer we take care of our people, they come back choice will take care of the customers time and again and that, in turn, will drive results for the shareholders.
On the left of the diagram are our Good Together people.
We have more than 35,000 team members serving over ten million customers every month.
We will continue to work to Good Together They are at the heart of delivering a understand what our customers Our strategy is underpinned by great customer experience and it is want today and to predict what our Good Together programme.
vital that we keep them motivated they will want in the future.
The Good Together is about protecting and engaged if we are to achieve insight gained will be used to the long-term sustainability of the our goals.
We are working hard provide our customers with the Company.
There are immediate at team engagement and we are products and services they expect, cost savings to be made by cutting proud of the latest YOUR SAY in the places they want them energy usage and reducing the results, which show an excellent and served by truly engaged amount of waste going to landfill, team engagement score of 71%.
but there are also longer-term However, whilst these scores are issues to consider.
We are taking very good, we want to be truly Investing in growth action to protect our supply chain, world class and we have some great We need to ensure that we locate so that we can continue to give role models right here at Whitbread.
our businesses in the places that our our customers what they want.
Over 25% of Whitbreads teams customers, and potential customers, We invest in training for our people achieved team engagement scores want.
Growing our leading brands so that we have enough high in excess of 80%.
We will look to and improving their competitive quality team members to serve these role models and learn from position is a key element in our our customers.
We aim to meet them as we strive for an average future success.
As explained earlier customers expectations by acting team engagement score in excess in this report, following a thorough with integrity and by developing of 80% across the Company.
assessment of the growth potential healthier food ranges.
Good for Premier Inn and Costa, we now Together is central to the future If we achieve this, we will be in believe there is an opportunity to success of the Company and will an even better position to provide grow faster and further.
We have continue to be integrated into the an excellent customer experience.
therefore set new milestones for the way the Company operates until next five years of at least 65,000 it becomes the way Whitbread Premier Inn UK rooms and 3,500 does things.
8 Customer segmentation Guest measures dashboard Guest satisfaction scores During 2010 11 we updated the The Hotels and Restaurants Premier Inn customer segmentation model for business utilises a guest measures Shareholder our Restaurant brands following the dashboard, which measures Recommend 85.8% value similar work carried out in Premier performance against key elements Inn and Costa.
This work allows of the guest promise.
This is a good Satisfaction 86.8% us to focus our marketing activity nights sleep and great value food more effectively and to develop and drink, served by people who new products and services.
We really care in a clean, comfortable Intention to return 91.2% have also been developing a more and well looked after environment.
sophisticated CRM strategy including Customer scores are monitored Value for money 81.9% the Costa Coffee Club and Premier continuously on the constituent Inn Business Account cards.
For example, the measures of a good Source: Surveys conducted independently by ORC International In Premier Inn we will give greater nights sleep include the comfort focus to specific parts of the leisure of the bed, the comfort of pillows and business markets.
When customer feedback the recent Weekend Rewards offer would suggest that performance YouGov BrandIndex for hotels has been aimed specifically at in a particular area is below Rank Brand business guests.
In Costa we will expectations, action plans are be looking for ways to meet the developed to address any problems.
1 Premier Inn needs of the different customer 2 Hilton groups identified from the grab Costa customer insight and go commuters to those looking Costa measures and monitors the 3 Marriott to spend more time relaxing with consumer hierarchy of needs, and 4 Travelodge a coffee.
using this, is able to focus initiatives on what is really important to 5 Holiday Inn Hotels and Restaurants guest customers: convenience: coffee: 6 Best Western satisfaction programme environment: service: value for It is important that we accurately and money: and food.
Improvements 7 Express by Holiday Inn robustly measure customer feedback in customer satisfaction in these 8 Ibis and always focus on whats important areas have been achieved during to the customer.
The Premier Inn the year, by targeting activity to 9 Comfort Inn guest satisfaction programme better meet customers needs.
e-mails approximately two million For example, Costa has opened customers within 24 hours of their 165 new stores during the year to YouGov BrandIndex for coffee shops stay to ask them for their feedback.
make the brand more convenient Rank Brand We receive 700,000 responses every to more people and has adapted year, making it one of the biggest the service style in stores leading 1 Costa and most robust programmes in to an improvement both in the 2 Pret a Manger Europe.
During 2010 we conducted a speed and friendliness of service.
number of exit interviews at Premier 3 Caff Nero Inn, which validated the results of Insight isnt just about understanding 4 Subway the programme, and will conduct what our customers do but also further exit interviews in the year why they do it and why some 5 Starbucks ahead.
The insight gained from the people choose not to be our 6 Coffee Republic programme led to the introduction customers.
Costa, in association of the successful Premier Offers with independent research agency 7 McDonalds deals, which have led to significant YouGov, undertakes three key increases in weekend occupancy and tracking studies covering customer Source: YouGov BrandIndex Mar 10 to Feb 11 customer value for money scores.
satisfaction, usage and attitudes and BrandIndex.
This generates Both Premier Inn and Costa use the YouGov BrandIndex to benchmark performance Last year over 120,000 people key indicators on a daily, monthly relative to other brands.
YouGov is the completed our Restaurants and quarterly basis, including only daily measure of public perception of guest survey giving us a real satisfaction, recommendation and consumer brands across a wide selection of understanding on how we deliver loyalty with demographic and other industry sectors.
Respondents are drawn from the YouGov on-line consumer panel and 2,000 against our key guest measures detailed analysis helping to channel on-line interviews are conducted every day in including food quality, service, insight into the heart of business.
the UK for the BrandIndex measure.
environment and value for money.
