16 Corporate Responsibility Overview Corporate Responsibility at Morrisons Corporate Responsibility is a specific business discipline that In this section we set out how we manage our corporate responsibility takes a proactive approach to forward thinking management.
programme, developments over the It recognises that business decisions have to take into account year and key highlights.
social and environmental factors alongside economic ones.
Today Our approach to CR is to be Different and Better than Ever.
We care about where our food By taking good care as we undertake comes from, how it is produced, the people who make it and how it is moved and sold.
our business in the present we will We want our customers to be confident that food bought at Morrisons is food they can trust.
ensure the long term sustainability of our business in the future.
At the heart How we manage CR of our operation we consider carefully Management and responsibility for delivery of our commitments is led by senior how we interact with the world around directors on our Management Board.
Ongoing management is integrated into the us, work hard to minimise our impact business through Corporate Services which also incorporates policy development, and strive to make a positive contribution, corporate affairs, technical, regulatory compliance and media relations.
taking on board the views of all of our key stakeholders.
Key highlights and achievements We have had an embedded corporate Today: Taking good care for tomorrow responsibility programme for a number of Business years.
In 2010 we set out the second major We continued our focus on responsible sourcing as well as raising standards in the phase of future plans and commitments supply chain.
Weve made good progress with our commitment to sustainable palm in our Corporate Responsibility Review.
oil with the first element of our policy, that new products use an RSPO certified We have, again, made good progress system, taking effect.
and won recognition for our work.
Farming programme initiatives over the year led to two major pieces of work More details of our programme can through our applied research programme, on renewable energy use for dairy be found in this years Corporate farms and on free ranging for egg-laying hens.
We retain our leading commitment Responsibility Review 2010 11. to British farming with our 100% pledge on fresh beef, pork, lamb and poultry.
Society We retained three main strands: our people, community and health and wellbeing.
Our people are what make our business successful and investing in them is central to delivering quality, value and service.
Our company-wide training programme delivered through the Morrisons Academy has now provided recognised qualifications for over 48,000 of our people.
co. uk today Tonnes of carbon emissions CO e 2 1,603,273 1,549,089 1,498,255 1,457,098 1,418,697 1,417,376 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Emission figures have been updated to be aligned with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by the World Resource Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
They have been updated with the latest electricity and waste conversion factors issued by DEFRA.
Source: SKM Environs Consulting Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 17 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Focus on: The Morrisons Farming Programme We believe that great quality food starts with great farming.
As one of the UKs biggest food retailers, with close working 12% achieved relationships with farmers all over the country, were On target for a 30% absolute reduction in committed to supporting British farming and making sure carbon emissions by 2020 2005 baseline.
the industry is innovative, competitive and sustainable.
52% reduction Exceeded target of 50% reduction of waste to landfill by 2010 2005 baseline.
The Morrisons Farming Programme is a cross-farming industry initiative aimed at helping build a sustainable British farming industry able to feed future generations.
1.3m raised At the heart of the Programme is a network of farmer groups Achieved target of raising at least spanning the agricultural sector from beef to dairy to poultry.
1m per annum for our Charity of The groups act as a platform to generate ideas for applied the Year Help the Hospices.
research activity funded by Morrisons that can help build economic, environmental and social sustainability as well as delivery benefits to our customers.
Energy efficiency One area inspiring particular interest among our dairy farmers and supported by Morrisons is greater use of renewable energies good for farm business profitability, reducing the cost base Our community programme has helped to raise over for our milk supply and with clear environmental benefits.
1.3m for our charity partner for the year, Help the Hospices.
What emerged was the lack of concise, impartial, farmer friendly Our attention for health and wellbeing has mainly centred information on the range of renewable options available that on continuous improvement in product formulation reducing farmers could consider before making any investment in these both salt and saturated fat levels and further development technologies for their own business.
This led to Morrisons of our Eat Smart range.
commissioning Newcastle University to produce a report to meet farmers needs.
Environment Our focus remains firmly fixed on carbon emissions reduction What the report looked at and preventing waste.
We made great progress on changing out What farmers told us they wanted was an independent and replacing more harmful refrigerant gases across our estate.
investigation of where they could make energy efficiencies We won four Cooling Industry Awards and were recognised in a typical dairy business, and what options there would as taking an industry leading position.
be to introduce different renewable energy options.
Weve continued to reduce waste and as anticipated reached Key findings our 2010 target to reduce waste from stores to landfill by 50% The report indicates that greater use of renewable energy compared to 2005.
Were well on the way with our new target has the potential to help dairy farmers cut costs by as much to have zero direct waste to landfill from stores by 2013. as 30%, a yearly saving of over 3,000 on a typical dairy farm.
All of which adds up and will help to drive out costs, not just Stakeholder engagement for farmers but ultimately for us and our customers.
The new Corporate Services structure implemented during the year has successfully allowed even greater stakeholder Industry carbon footprint targets the wider context engagement with key groups including shareholders, customers, Reducing the carbon footprint of agriculture is a challenge facing government, non-governmental organisations, employees, the entire industry.
Both UK and EU legislation has set targets communities and suppliers.
Stakeholder engagement is vital for the reduction of environmentally damaging emissions.
to ensure our corporate responsibility is both relevant and effective.
It enables us to identify issues and opportunities, Through engagement with Government and the industry respond to changing needs and adhere to best practice by and by providing practical support and research, we are incorporating different views and feedback into the not just demonstrating our commitment to British farming development and progress of the programme.
but helping to safeguard it for the future.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
