18 Our people Our Values Living our Values At Morrisons we believe that everyone has talent, and bringing the Our Values bring us together to achieve our vision of making Morrisons best out of our people is at the heart of our success as a company.
Different and Better than Ever.
The Values set out what we expect Therefore, we put significant focus on growing our own people, developing them from of each other in the business and what the shop floor to the top floor of our business, and helping them perform at their best.
our customers can expect from us.
On the shop floor, the opportunities begin immediately.
New store recruits can Can do achieve a QCF NVQ Level 2 Retail Skills qualification equivalent to five GCSEs at grade C or above while doing their day job as part of The Morrisons Academy.
Getting things done Last year nearly 48,000 colleagues were successfully accredited with this nationally recognised qualification.
Fresh thinking Always looking for new and better ways This process ensures that Morrisons has more traditional craft trained people than any of doing things other retailer, something that is really valued by our customers.
At management level our Coaching for Performance Programme, which translates parallels of winning sports One team teams into success in the business environment, enables our leaders to become great Working well together coaches who can maximise the potential and performance of their teams.
More than 1,000 of our senior leaders will undertake the programme in the next 12 months.
Great selling and service We love to sell and serve At the top floor, our Advanced Leadership Programme prepares our senior management team for progression into the executive directors of the future.
In 2010, 20 senior Bringing the best out managers joined this programme and three of them have recently progressed to the Management Board, including Mark Harrison, our new Group Retail Director Designate, of our people who started his career with Morrisons twenty-five years ago on the shop floor.
Were constantly learning and looking to improve on where we are Marks example, and the 80% of our other employees that are promoted from within, is proof that our shop floor to top floor approach is working.
Our people philosophy Great shopkeeping makes sound business sense too: in 2010, our approach to recognising talent, rewarding Setting high standards in all areas hard work and creating opportunities for progression saw productivity increase by 7%, of the business labour turnover decrease by 6% and a 0.3% fall in absence, resulting in an 8m cost saving to the business.
Not only does our commitment to growing our own talent make financial sense, it also ensures that the traditions and values that have made Morrisons a great company endure, and that these qualities are deeply engrained throughout our organisation.
These solid foundations will ensure we grow our talented team and deliver the Morrisons difference and a high performing business for years to come.
Investing in the future With the intention of creating our leaders of the future, this year we launched our school leavers programme, welcoming 18-year-olds onto our Morrisons Manufacturing Sponsored Degree Programme.
While working in Morrisons Manufacturing business, they will also study for a BSc Hons in Management and Business at the Bradford University School of Management.
Its an approach that gives our students the opportunity to gain industry relevant skills that are aligned with our business objectives.
Retail Industry Awards Launched at a time when students are facing challenging economic conditions and the threat of rising tuition fees, our debt-free degrees offer a genuine opportunity for young people to fulfil their potential, while receiving a competitive salary, payment of their degree fees and excellent training.
Retail Industry Awards: Store Manager of the Year We will support more intakes in 2011 and in 2012. for the fourth consecutive year The Grocer Gold Awards UK National Training Productivity up 7% this year Awards 2010 Labour turnover down 6% Absence down by 0.3% An overall 8m cost saving The Grocer Gold Retail Employer of the Year 2010 Regional and National winner Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 19 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Aiding social mobility Our belief that everyone has talent, combined with our aim to build long lasting relationships with our local communities, has led to a working partnership with CREATE, an award-winning Leeds-based charity supporting disadvantaged people.
Through our association with CREATE, weve already started to recruit and train homeless people into our business.
The jobs were providing will get their lives back on track and create loyal and committed team members.
Its our aim to provide 1,000 jobs through our partnership with CREATE.
Exceptional apprenticeships Last year, we signed up over 8,500 apprentices.
By the end of 2011, we will train a further 18,000 apprentices, making Morrisons the UKs largest modern apprenticeship provider.
The Morrisons Academy Joining our team The award-winning Morrisons Academy provides a suite of Last year we opened 14 new stores, creating 3,500 jobs.
We also training and development tools to bring out the best in our welcomed over 800 new colleagues to our team following our people at all stages in their career.
Founded in 2009, the acquisition of two manufacturing facilities.
Early introductions Academy is built on strong partnerships with leading academic to Morrisons, coupled with honest communications from our accrediting, training and development providers, including: managers, and robust induction processes, helped to ensure the Bradford School of Management and Bradford a smooth transition for our new people.
Business School, who provide management training and degree courses: Attracting external talent We are committed to growing our own people and our plans the Sports Coaching Department at Leeds Metropolitan will ensure we have a strong talent pool for the future.
At times, University, which is a recognised leader in performance however, we do need to seek talent from outside the organisation, coaching, applying learning from world-class sports coaching largely to fill new skills areas.
Our reputation for looking after our techniques for our partnership The Centre of Coaching people, as evidenced in The Grocer Gold Awards 2010 when we Excellence: and were named Employer of the Year, ensures we can attract and the global leadership guides who support our Advanced recruit the best talent in the industry from within and outside the Leadership Programme.
This year we have successfully filled a number of key positions with people from leading organisations.
The key to our successful partnerships is that they are integrated into the Academy, working alongside our managers, Looking ahead trainers, and coaches to deliver world-class expertise the Morrisons way.
This year we will create a Centre of Excellence for Coaching, in partnership with Leeds Metropolitan University and Leeds This year the standard set by our Academy was recognised Carnegie, who enjoy an international reputation for sports coaching externally at the National Training Awards, with Morrisons excellence.
This partnership will provide every manager across winning the overall National Training Award.
The judges praised the business with a consistent set of core leadership and coaching our training best practice, the Academys unique scale and our skills.
By providing managers with the skills to bring the best out exceptional commitment to embedding the programme right of their people, we will help everyone in the business to perform across our stores.
to their best everyday: something that our customers will recognise in the service they receive and the shopping experience they enjoy.
We are also committed to more than doubling our number of female senior managers, so that by 2014 we will have increased the female representation on the companys Senior Management Group from 13% to 30%.
We have established a Steering group to drive our detailed action plans which, along with coaching and mentoring, will help more women maximise their careers at Morrisons.
Employee stability % 85 84 48,000 95% 78 76 In 2010 we trained 48,000 colleagues The majority of our Store General to QCF NVQ Level 2.
By the end of Managers are promoted from within 2011, over 100,000 colleagues will and 30% of our Senior Management have achieved this accreditation.
Team started on the shop floor.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
