44 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility We are making good progress and have The things that are important to us aclear direction for the future We want our values and corporate responsibility programmes to be at the heart of what we do how we run During the year, we gave priority to those parts of our the business day-to-day and how we can improve it in the corporate responsibility programme that would best support future.
They will help to drive operational improvement.
Some examples are given in the Inpractice this means that our Group values and corporate Business review and more information is available on the responsibility framework which we have used for the past Wolseley plc website: www.
The rest of this few years will continue to provide a guide for how we will section provides more detail on how we have further continue to improve our business.
As we are a decentralised integrated the corporate responsibility programme into Group, the priorities are determined by what is important ouroperations and on our plans for the years ahead.
foreach business in each country, and targets are set and We have achieved our objectives forthe year: progress is measured during the operational performance reviews.
The projects, activities and targets are businessWe have introduced a comprehensive ethics programme, driven.
Some examples are given in this report.
with every employee now familiar with our new Code of Conduct introduced in 2010.
The five key themes of our corporate responsibility framework are summarised in the table opposite, together Our new anti-corruption training programme will reach with an explanation of what they mean to us and the benets  employees by the end of this to the business.
With the assistance of a specialist consultancy, we are A thorough review of our health and safety programmes reviewing our policies and the practices in each of our has resulted in tougher and more ambitious targets for businesses in respect of each of the five elements of our ourbusinesses.
corporate responsibility programme: particular attention is We have reviewed our environmental impact and the way being given to our environmental impact.
During the 2011 12 we set environmental targets, and how we report on them financial year, the Board and the Executive Committee will will be revised during financial year 2011 12. discuss the findings of that review in order to assess the scope for setting targets and KPIs aimed at improving The training and development programmes for our environmental performance and reducing our carbon impact.
employees, from sales staff to senior executives, continue This review will take into account the existing good practices to be maintained and improved, with positive results.
and identify actions which have the greatest opportunity toimprove operational productivity.
It will also assess the Our values scope and potential for our sustainable product offering.
Theconsiderations of our external stakeholders will also be Last year we identied and communicated our Group taken into account when developing our policy.
We will aim corevalues, which are inherent in all of our businesses.
tohave the necessary systems in place for the start of the Localbusinesses may have slightly different interpretations following financial year.
This will not detract from our existing but the core values are consistent across the Company.
Theprinciples have been discussed with employees throughout the Group and are reinforced through regular communications from the Chief Executive and senior management.
They are also embedded in the way we conduct our performance reviews both of our operations and of our people see the People section on page 48.
These are our values, together with some examples of whatis expected of us: We act with integrity We conduct all our activities with fairness, honesty andintegrity.
We drive for results and improvement We listen and respond to the needs of our customers, thenexceed their expectations: we are not happy withthestatus quo, and constantly strive to improve.
We value our people We understand, respect and value personal and cultural differences: we are open and honest in all our dealings with our people.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 45 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Key themes Principle Business benets Health We will provide a safe and healthy working Protecting the health and safety ofour people and safety environment and we will not compromise the helps us to gain andmaintain their trust and see pages 47 and 48 health and safety of any individual.
It also ensures that we protect the skills and experience that are used to serve our customers.
Maintaining our physical assets minimises the risk of injury, helps usto preserve the integrity of our operations, improves efficiency, lowers our costs and improves thequality of our customer service.
Principle Business benets People We value our people.
We understand, respect The development and retention of our people will see pages 48 and 49 and value personal and cultural differences.
lead to increased motivation and improvement inthe quality of operations and the service weprovide our customers, and will lower our cost base.
Principle Business benets Responsible We are committed to observing both the spirit Conducting business responsibly and with business andthe letter of the laws of all jurisdictions in integrity minimises risks related to fraud and see pages 49 and 50 which we operate, and to complying with our corruption and strengthens our reputation.
We expect our vendors, also makes our business more efficient because contractors and agents to adhere to our Code we avoid costly disruptions.
Compliance ofConduct and to adopt similar standards.
programmes strengthen our internal controls.
Principle Business benets Environment We will run efficient operations that minimise Measuring our environmental performance in see pages 50, 51 and 52 waste and reduce any negative effect of our chosen areas will enable us to become more business activities on the environment.
Wewill efficient, reduce operational costs and reduce promote sustainable development.
Principle Business benets Community We will be a responsible member of the Building closer relationships with the engagement communities in which we work.
communities in which we operate helps us to promote ourbusiness, attract high quality see page 53 recruits and gain a greater understanding of our customers, vendors and employees.
It helps us run a better, more efficient business.
46 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued orresults.
These will include examples of improvements in Corporate responsibility governance health and safety andenvironmental management systems.
andrisk management To ensure that the integrity of the business is maintained Overall policy and direction is set by the Board, which andstrengthened, the Companys internal audit programme reviews the Groups corporate  activity includes detailed reviews of compliance with Group policies annually.
Each business unit identies its objectives for the on health and safety and the implementation of its ethics year, which include non-financial targets for the improvement programme.
This is complemented by the maintenance of of health and safety performance and, in most cases, the internal controls programme which ensures that there customer satisfaction, employee engagement and reducing isrigorous testing of and adherence to our procedures.
The targets set, and the KPIs used to TheGroups Company Secretary and General Counsel is measure progress, may differ as they are orientated towards responsible for the overall framework and direction of the what is most appropriate for the improvement of the corporate responsibility programme, and regularly discusses particular business.
These targets form part of the annual progress with business unit representatives.
process of budget preparation and the monthly review of performance conducted by the Group Chief Executive, the As part of the Groups wider risk management and internal Chief Financial officer and business unit management.
controls system, each business, and each corporate function, TheExecutive Committee regularly reviews these objectives assesses non-financial as well as financial risks and sets and also ensures that they are aligned with and take into action plans for management of those risks.
Included in that account Wolseleys strategic objectives and the interests assessment process are risks relating to health and safety, ofits stakeholders.
TheGroups system of sharing best environmental and other compliance requirements, employees, practice includes webinars which discuss examples of fraud, corruption and product quality.
An explanation of the management actions which have improved productivity Groups risk management programme is set out on pages 38to 43.
Progress against goals Goals Progress Status Targets set in 2010 11 All employees to be Complete.
The new Code of Conduct was communicated to all employees through one or more trained on theCode of means: online training: presentations from management: distribution of hard copies of the Code Conduct.
of Conduct: and posting of the key principles on message boards.
Training of relevant Substantially complete.
A detailed online training programme was developed and has been employees.
deployed in some parts of the Group.
This will be completed, on target, by the end of 2011.
Risk assessments for Substantially complete.
Our businesses are identifying their higher value, higher risk business fraud andcorruption.
Where necessary, contract terms and procedures have been or are being improved.
Due diligence is being or will be conducted on higher-risk business partners.
The process is expected to be completed by the end of 2012.
Improvement of health All businesses have set targets and most businesses have achieved or exceeded their goals and safety performance.
The integrity of our systems for recording environmental data steadily improves: more environment dataquality.
businesses are able to provide accurate data, and a lower proportion is derived from estimates.
Targets and priorities for 2012 Activity Deadline Thorough review of environmental efficiency programmes for the improvement of fuel use, energy consumption and reduction of waste.
Existing best practices in business units will be shared across the Group.
Where they End 2012 do not already exist, and if appropriate, suitable targets will be set at business unit and at Group level.
Improvement of health and safety performance throughout the Group.
Appropriate targets are set at business unit level and Group level, and reviewed regularly.
Where relevant, an element of management July 2012 bonuses will be dependent on improvement of health and safety performance.
Ensure performance reviews are conducted for all employees at all levels.
End 2012 Ensure every business conducts employee engagement surveys on a regular basis and sets improvement Ongoing targets based on the output from those surveys.
Robust talent review and succession plans in place across the Group.
July 2012 Ensure due diligence procedures are improved and contract terms with existing and new key business July 2012 partners meet the standards of our ethics programme.
More information on these activities can be found online at http: www.
aspx Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 47 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Health and safety Efforts to provide a healthy and safe environment for our employees, customers and others whom we come into contact with have continued throughout the year.
Overall our results have not improved as much as we would like.
In part, this is because we are capturing more and better quality data for improved reporting.
However, we plan to do better next year.
Our medical injury rate has improved across the Group andin every business unit over the year although the number of lost workdays has, overall, remained static.
The number ofthird party collisions has increased: investigations are under way to better understand this phenomenon and Ferguson: Safety Leadership improvements are being made.
Despite our efforts, and the During the year, every manager in Ferguson was involved overall reduction in medical injury rates, two of our employees ina new, customised Safety Leadership training were involved in fatal accidents and some of our employees programme, aimed at improving workplace and driver safety.
This equipped them to deliver training to every suffered serious injuries while atwork.
We cannot tolerate employee as part of a Safety Fundamentals curriculum.
this and have set further improvement actions.
The target benets were not only improvement in workplace safety, but better customer service: the This year we conducted a thorough review of our policies Ferguson slogan Nobody expects more of us than we do and procedures for the management of health and safety applies to all aspects of the way they operate.
This included an assessment of the quality and integrity of our management, reporting and training systems and the benchmarking of our performance against other companies in our sector as well as those companies regarded as leaders in health and safety management.
We found that, as a Group and in most of our main geographical regions, our safety performance leaves room for further improvement.
With the assistance of a specialist consultancy, we assessed ourselves in several categories and compared our scores with publicly available information for our nearest competitors.
The categories were: culture and values: policies and standards: governance anddirector competence: organisational structures, roles and responsibilities: management systems: performance Improving the safety culture in the Nordic region management: and monitoring and audit.
This allowed us Stark has pioneered a safety management review process tobetter understand the current status of our operations which has already improved standards in its branches.
andto clarify our ambition and the standards we wish to Theprocess involves a detailed analysis and discussion reach over time.
Although in some categories we were with branch management of four areas: internal trafc: ergonomics for example, manual handling : accident assessed as demonstrating good practice, we are still hazards for example, with the use of technical equipment : improving our performance in other areas.
Our aim is to and formal risk assessments based on external and internal demonstrate good practice in all categories and in all parts standards.
Businesses are given a score on a scale of 1 to 5 basiccompliance with laws earns a score of 5, while full Our review also showed that our businesses have wellcompliance with all external and internal standards of best established frameworks for the management of health and practice produces a score of 1.
This provides an incentive safety risks.
Training and communications programmes are for branches to accelerate their safety improvements to achieve a higher rating.
So far, 77 per cent of the branches well developed and new themes and techniques are used in theprogramme have a score of 3 or better and 42 per tomaintain awareness.
For example, during the year, the cent ofthebranches have a score of 2 or better.
in-house magazine at DT Group featured accounts by employees describing their own accidents and injuries and saying what they would do differently, which proved very powerful with colleagues.
Ferguson emphasised driver safety by requiring all new eet vehicles to be equipped with bright orange safety belts as a simple but effective visual reminder.
Wolseley UK continues its monthly programme of essential safety themes, an email and poster campaign which includes practical steps to reduce risks.
Local health and safety initiatives are shared across the Group so that best practices can be identied and adopted.
48 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Last year, we obtained a sufciently reliable set of data against which we could measure our performance year-on-year.
Thetable below therefore shows our performance this year and explains the variances from the financial year 2009 10.
The three key performance indicators are the only ones used throughout the Group: additional metrics are used in our businesses in order to encourage specic improvements.
During the course of 2011 12, we shall further review which are the appropriate Group-wide KPIs to use.
KPIs are reviewed regularly within each business and by the Executivein order to identify new trends and to ensure that the appropriate management actions are being taken.
Wolseley UK apprenticeship scheme per cent The UK business participates in an accredited, change from government-funded apprenticeship programme which FY 2011 FY 2010 previous year putsrecruits through a nine-month course focusing on Medical injury rate branch operations and customer service in particular.
Successful completion of that course results in a national Number of at-work injuries vocational qualication NVQ level 2 and participants then requiring medical treatment proceed to an advanced course in customer service, which per 100 employees 2.97 3.43 13.51% can be completed in a further 9-12 months.
All of the training is provided in-house, with external mentoring and Lost workday rate regular assessment through the government scheme.
Number of workdays lost Theaim is for all these participants to become branch per 100 employees 62.51 62.32 0.03% managers of the future.
Fleet collision rate Number of third-party vehicle collisions per 100vehicles 19.33 17.27 11.92% People Throughout the year, our businesses have focused on maintaining and improving upon high standards of customer service.
We aim to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by demonstrating superior knowledge of our product range, providing tailored advice to our professional and retail customers, and offering sustainable products to Ferguson district trainer programme meet stakeholder and customer expectations.
Superior Trainers are being introduced in Ferguson districts whose customer service is delivered by engaged, well-trained and objective is to identify, develop, implement and evaluate knowledgeable sales staff.
Our broad-ranging programme training programmes in sales, leadership, customer ofsales training is now well established and continues to service, product knowledge and systems for Ferguson branch associates which support the businesses produce good results.
Furthermore, this year an additional strategies and goals.
Emphasis is on local delivery of fund was allocated to the training and development of branch training across all job functions: drivers, warehouse, inside managers and front line sales staff.
sales, counters, showrooms, outside sales, branch managers, operations and new hires.
The training delivery Despite the economic downturn and consequent reductions will include on the job coaching and mentoring, as well as in the levels of recruitment, we are pleased to see that after group-led classroom and web-based programmes.
several years there is still a very high retention rate overall.
Performance measures will include: the number of distinct Inparticular, we have a high retention rate for our employees district and branch associates trained: the number of training events conducted: hours of instruction per course: recruited through our graduate development programmes, learning achieved as a percentage of those who pass and are now seeing participants from that programme take milestone exams: productivity improvements by role, management positions in various countries around the basedon observed performance and supervisor and Group.
Our Leadership Development Programmes are aimed associate feedback: employee engagement scores based on survey results: branch employee retention: and branch at developing mid-to-senior level managers so that they operational performance.
acquire the broader skills required to operate at higher management levels.
For example, Wolseleys European Senior Leadership Development Programme, operated incollaboration with IMD business school in Lausanne, Switzerland, provides an intensive learning and development forum for our high-potential senior managers who are, orwho aspire to become, part of the senior leadership inourbusinesses and in corporate functions.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 49 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 High-potential employees are also beginning to go through an assessment as part of the longer term succession planning process.
At least twice in each year, the Executive Committee and the Board review the succession plans both for their own positions and, in the case of the Executive Committee, for the senior managers who report to them.
Thus, we aim to ensure that there is an effective training anddevelopment programme for employees at all levels ofour organisation.
During the recession, we recognised the difficulty in maintaining morale and commitment.
We are privileged tohave loyal employees who have continued to work hard Diversity in the business forthe Company despite the pressure on wages and on For a number of years, Ferguson in the US has promoted profitability.
Their dedication is something that we recognise diversity through a programme of recruitment, training and appreciate.
This year, we required every business to andawareness, and leadership development.
The effort conduct an employee engagement survey, so that we consists of engagement surveys and exit interviews: leadership development and mentoring programmes: couldbetter understand the concerns of our employees diversity training through workshops and web-based andidentify the action needed to address those concerns.
training : and offering alternative work schedules.
Wewere pleased to see engagement scores that were Theprogramme also features an internal newsletter generally higher than the industry average and in most cases thatencourages all employees to build skills that promote communication, teamwork, performance and productivity.
higher than the scores achieved in 2008.
Nevertheless, we The programme extends outside the company and realise that there is much more that we can do for our loyal includes vendor diversity, which promotes links with employees, and the findings of those engagement surveys companies owned by minorities, women and serviceare being acted upon.
We will conduct employee disabled veterans.
As part of our efforts to improve the quality of management and the development of our people, we require that all employees go through a detailed performance appraisal at the end of each financial year.
At that point, objectives are set for the next financial year and a personal development plan is discussed.
All employees are expected to discuss progress against their objectives and their development plans regularly with their managers, and at least at the half year.
In parts of our business, the personal performance evaluation process was upgraded during the year so that each competency that is assessed is aligned with our Group values.
Wolseley UK: modular engineering Responsible business Pipe Centers new modular engineering facility provides thecustomer with a design and manufacture service Our new Code of Conduct was successfully introduced in all forpre-fabricated, multi-service modules, which feature parts of the Group this year, reaching all 45,000 employees.
various components such as pre-insulated pipe work, It sets out in clear terms the standards and behaviour that is electrical containment and duct work delivered to site ontime and on budget.
expected of our employees and, in some cases, our business partners.
Training on the Code of Conduct was provided When compared against more traditional methods of construction, this facility has numerous environmental through an online presentation, using case studies relevant to advantages, including reduction in vehicle use and carbon the business and an interactive question and answer module.
emissions: less waste, as the modules are delivered on For those employees who do not have access to a computer temporary re-usable trolleys with no waste packaging at work, materials were also provided for use in presentations todispose of: improved health and safety through more efficient manufacturing and less congested work areas: by management, and copies of the Code of Conduct, less wasted energy due to improvements to installation leaetsand posters have been distributed to all locations.
efficiency: and as the products are ISO 9001 quality approved they consistently meet customer requirements.
The Code of Conduct sets out the high ethical standards which Wolseley expects from its employees and others carrying out its business, focusing on compliance with the law, in particular avoiding bribery, corruption and fraud, maintenance of gifts and hospitality registers, preservation ofcondential information, managing conicts of interest, treating customers and vendors fairly, engaging in fair competition, maintaining high standards of corporate More information on The Wolseley Code of Conduct governance, transparency and responsibility, providing can be found onourwebsite at http: www.
asafeand healthy working environment, running efficient wolseley.
com investor-centre , minimising waste and limiting our environmental and-ethics code-of-conduct.
50 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued impact, and developing our employees and valuing diversity.
In Wolseley UK, the pilot programme for the development Wolseleys new Group-wide condential reporting system, ofa comprehensive ethical product sourcing programme Speak Up!, is available in all the languages in which the hasmade steady progress.
An assessment process has Company operates and has worked effectively over the last been introduced which enables vendors to provide details year.
Thecondential reports are investigated and, where ofhow they comply with the requirements of Wolseleys necessary, actions are taken to rectify any weakness in policy, including the provision of documentary evidence oursystems that may have been identied.
It is intended to include a greater number and the overall integrity of the reporting system, are subject ofvendors in this programme, in each case assessing the to regular scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
risks associated with the product, country of origin and complexity of the supply chain.
In anticipation of the UK Bribery Act 2010 coming into force during the financial year, the Company developed a Our efforts to improve our commitment to product quality comprehensive anti-fraud and anti-corruption manual, which and integrity are continuous.
There is now closer collaboration includes case studies and training materials with examples amongst our sourcing and quality assurance and quality relevant to our business activities.
The employees in our control specialists within the Group to ensure thatbest Group who are perceived to be most at risk of exposure to practices are shared and are more consistent in our fraud, bribery and corruption have been identied for more businesses.
An improved procedure for response toproduct detailed training.
The programme includes an interactive safety concerns has also been introduced in every business.
online module with test questions which every participant must pass.
An action plan is in place for the identication and Environment review of higher-risk and higher-value business relationships.
A desire to improve and integrate environmental If necessary following this additional due diligence, we will management into our operations.
amend our contract terms and our procedures for the negotiation of contracts and the retention of agents or service The impact of our operations on the environment is providers.
In March 2011 the UK Department of Justice summarised in the tables in this section.
It is based on issued its Guidance about procedures which relevant improved data quality, providing a more reliable assessment commercial organisations can put into place to prevent of our efficiency.
We have not been satisfied with the nature persons associated with them from bribing.
We reviewed of the data we gather or the way in which we set targets and this guidance document with the aim of ensuring that our measure performance, as a Group and at business unit level.
policies and systems that we have in place could be We have been able to provide more detailed information for regarded as adequate procedures within the meaning inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Project we were pleased ofthe Bribery Act.
to see our score improve on the previous year but in doing so we recognised that there was more that we could do to Timber and ethical product sourcing integrate carbon reduction actions into our everyday In October 2010, the European Union and the Council of business life.
theEuropean Union adopted a Regulation laying down Some of our businesses already have established, hightheobligations of operators who place timber and timber quality programmes to improve their environmental impact.
Its substantive terms apply from These include fuel efficiency plans as well as programmes for March 2013.
This Regulation will require companies such the reduction of energy consumption and waste.
Examples asWolseley to meet certain standards, including having a of our achievements are included in this report.
Our current due diligence system in place, when bringing timber onto practice is that guidelines are set by the Board and the theEuropean market and, where the timber or timber Executive Committee but targets are set at business unit products are already on the European market, to be able to level, taking into account their specic business objectives, identify those who have supplied timber or timber products.
and this is consistent with ourmodel of ensuring that The Company already has a well-established system in place accountability for performance improvement remains with to allow it to track timber from its origin throughout the chain business unit management.
Insome cases, our existing of custody, and continues to work with vendors to ensure practices have boosted our credentials when bidding for that all timber is identiable as originating from certied major construction contracts and we think this has given sources.
Our ethical timber policy already sets high usacompetitive advantage.
Atpresent we do not have a standards for the procurement of timber and the existing comprehensive Group-wide programme, nor do we set or compliance framework should therefore be readily adaptable disclose targets at a Group level.
This has been driven by the to new requirements.
Sourcing managers and environmental decentralised nature of our business and by the difficulty of specialists in the Group have already begun to work more identifying adequate targets and KPIs that are meaningful closely to ensure that the systems in place will meet those and equally applicable to all of our operations.
However, future legislative requirements well in advance of their coming wecontinue to measure and report on greenhouse gas into force.
We believe that this will provide other benets emissions, water consumption and waste management, tothe organisation: more efficient and robust purchasing andthese gures are shown later in this section.
processes, giving our customers greater confidence that theycan rely on us for high quality products and materials.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 51 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group further reduced its environmental footprint this Specic programmes aimed at reducing fuel consumption, year.
Greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 9 per including the backhaul and route optimisation programmes cent, non-hazardous waste was reduced by 6 per cent and inFerguson, have also contributed to the decreases in hazardous waste by 26 per cent.
These gures take into emissions.
Emissions from air and rail travel have increased account a change in the number of Group entities within the as the overall level of business activity has improved.
scope of environmental reporting as compared to the TheGroup has also taken steps to improve the accuracy financial year 2009 10, in particular the exclusion of data andcompleteness of its emissions data, including the use relating to our Italian business for 2010 11 following its ofactual third-party information, for example relating to fuel disposal during the year.
consumption in company vehicles, rather than estimating such consumption as in previous years.
Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e emissions FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 The majority of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions derive emissions emissions emissions 1 1 1 from electricity use at our locations 47 per cent and the Source tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e transportation of our products 27 per cent.
Fuel use in Electricity use 346,280 360,069 393,930 operations and the transportation of people account for 2 Fuel use: operations 101,190 104,623 118,270 14per cent and 12 per cent respectively.
Fuel use: transportation As in previous years, tCO2e emissions have been reported in ofgoods 197,802 245,468 246,518 accordance with the principles of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Business travel: vehicles 81,543 96,567 87,647 Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Protocol.
Business travel: air and rail 7,532 5,215 8,189 TheGHG Protocol categorises emissions as follows: Refrigerant leakage 2,550 3,303 1,594 Scope 1 Direct emissions.
3 These are emissions for which businesses are directly Total 736,897 815,245 856,148 responsible.
Emissions per m Scope 2 Electricity indirect emissions.
ofrevenue 54.2 61.7 59.3 These are emissions from the electricity which a company 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent buys to use in its equipment or operations.
abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP ofeach of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as dened by the Kyoto Scope 3 Other indirect emissions.
The GWP of CO2 is 1 1 tonne CO2 1 tonne CO2e.
For other These are emissions from activities that are relevant to a greenhouse gases in the basket of six, including refrigerants, the GWP is company but are not within its direct control for example, relative to the CO2 over a 100-year time horizon eg one tonne of the refrigerant transport in vehicles not owned by the company.
R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of its potential impact on climate change.
Wolseley reports on its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, 2 Includes supplied heat district heating.
asdened by the GHG Protocol, and aims to report on its 3 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
The table opposite therefore includes selected Scope 3 emissions those arising from business travel, although it should be noted that a proportion of the data is derived from estimates.
Each year we aim to reduce our reliance on estimates so that we can provide data based on accurate measurements.
Thisyear, approximately 60 per cent of our data is derived, or partly derived, from estimates.
This compares to 65 per cent lastyear.
A number of factors inuence the amount of electricity used, fuel consumed and business travel undertaken across the Group, and hence the corresponding greenhouse gas emissions.
These factors include the fuel used in operations, the size of vehicle eets for the transportation ofboth goods and people, and the overall level of business activity.
Changes in each of these during financial year 2010 11 haveresulted in decreases in emissions in several ofthe categories noted in the table opposite when compared to2009 10 gures.
52 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Waste management The Groups businesses generate non-hazardous waste and smaller quantities of hazardous waste.
Denitions vary from country to country: hazardous waste may include items such as batteries and electronic equipment: non-hazardous waste typically includes materials such as paper, plastic and metal.
In the financial year 2010 11, 7 per cent of hazardous waste and 27 per cent of non-hazardous waste was recycled.
Thiscompares with 7 per cent and 29 per cent respectively for the previous year.
Theremaining waste was sent to landll or incinerated.
Ourcompanies strive to increase the amount of waste that isrecycled, and the programmes that are in Wolseley UKs Go Green campaign place continue to show gradual improvement.
Of the total As part of the Health, Safety and Environment HSE audit waste generated by the Groups activities in 2011, programme in the UK business, the Go Green campaign approximately 26 per cent is based on actual data.
was initiated to further improve upon Wolseley UKs existing Theremaining 74 per cent was partly or entirely estimated HSE compliance initiatives.
These compliance-based audits focus on key HSE matters affecting the business with the this is an improvement onlast year.
aim being for all sites to achieve compliance standards Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste measured consistently in all UKsites and, ultimately, an internal target of green status.
A site achieves this status Final waste FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 when it is 100 per cent compliant in 10 auditable destinations tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes categories, supported by documentary evidence.
Incinerated 793 1,098 1,283 14,601 10,120 6,599 The campaign was a joint initiative between the Internal Audit and HSE teams of Wolseley UK, with support given Landll 168 190 250 39,725 45,623 85,003 by each of the business unit management teams as required.
Any outstanding items identied following an audit Recycled 68 96 77 19,855 23,266 22,617 taking place were tracked through to completion and 1 performance was measured weekly using a reporting Total 1,029 1,384 1,610 74,181 79,010 114,617 dashboard.
Given the success of the programme since its Waste per introduction during 2011, Wolseley will maintain it as part of its continuing improvement of compliance and of branch m of manager training on health, safety and environment revenue 0.08 0.1 0.1 5.5 6.0 7.9 matters.
1 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Water use The majority of the Groups water consumption is related tonormal operational and sanitary use.
Although water consumption is not as material a factor in our operations as it would be for a manufacturer, we have continued to measure water consumption throughout the Group in an effort to improve our water efficiency.
The Groups water is almost exclusively supplied by local utility providers.
This year, our overall water use decreased by 17 per cent.
Thisreects a number of factors, including a reduction in the number of properties across the Group to which water is supplied and restructuring of individual businesses within the scope of our reporting, which have led to lower volumes of water being consumed.
FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 cubic cubic cubic metres metres metres Total water 1 consumption 831,038 1,001,515 984,102 Average water consumption per employee 18.5 21.2 19.4 1 83 per cent of the 2011 gure is based on estimated, or partly estimated, data.
This compares to 89 per cent for 2010.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 53 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Community engagement In all of our businesses, our employees are encouraged to develop their skills by contributing to charitable or other activities outside the workplace which benefit the communities in which they work or live.
In addition, each business unit has the discretion to select the charitable or community projects that most resonate with its employees or that provide a link toits operations.
Many of our companies recognise the importance of their presence in a particular community andthe value it can bring both to the business and the area in which its employees live.
A notable example this year of how this has worked in practice is given opposite.
Ripon, UK fully engaged in the community Wolseleys shared service centre in the UK is based Our principal areas for charitable support continue to be inRipon, North Yorkshire.
It supports all of the UKs thealleviation of homelessness, the provision of training for operations and is the citys largest employer: it has been the homeless or marginalised in order to allow them to return inthe area for 40 years.
Wolseley UK and its employees to work, and the improvement of the quality of the built have supported the community in numerous ways.
Our businesses have also supported numerous These are only a few examples: fundraising activities for other charitable causes, including the relief of suffering avariety of local charities: hosting work experience for students and offering careers advice: supplying more than following natural disasters, support for the aged, and the 50 staff to thepolice and emergency services Crucial development of the arts.
Crew which teaches primary school children how to dealwith various threats and emergencies: numerous Wolseley continues to contribute to the construction sector contributions in-kind, such as provision of temporary support for the Great Ormond Street childrens hospital warehouse space for the Salvation Army: and drastically Raising the Roof campaign, whose purpose is to fund reducing its environmental impact by recycling 90 per cent thedevelopment of a new centre for neurosciences.
We are of ofce waste and recycling all ofce paper achieved simply and effectively byremoving all waste bins in ofces in the second year of our partnership with Impetus Trust and providing only recycling containers.
uk, an organisation which works community activities inRipon led to its being awarded the to break the cycle of poverty by accelerating the growth of Harrogate Borough Council 2011 Award for Community charities and social enterprises that ght economic Involvement.
disadvantage, helping them to multiply their social impact.
Through its venture philanthropy model providing strategic funding, management support and specialist expertise, Impetus has helped its portfolio of organisations to grow their income by an average of 31 per cent ayear and to increase thenumber of people they help by anaverage of40per Supporting the Impetus portfolio of charities Blue Sky centa year.
Included in the Impetus portfolio isBlueSky Blue Sky is a charity which gives paid work to people Development &Regeneration see opposite for more details.
coming out of prison, to enable them to move successfully into long-term employment.
As part of its scale-up plan, Recognising our commitment to the maintenance and which Impetus and Wolseley are backing, this social development of the integrity of the built environment, this year business has signicantly increased the number of Wolseley became a supporter of The Princes Foundation employment contracts offered to ex-offenders, hiring more forthe Built Environment www.
than 500 to date enough to close a small prison.
One of The Prince of Wales charities, it promotes the understanding of sustainable building and encourages community engagement in the improvement of public health and affordable and safer streets and communities.
Its mission is to transform lives by making great places.
Its work includes master planning new cities and promoting sustainable building through its showcase Natural House to which Wolseley contributed materials supplied through its Sustainable Building Center.
The Foundation also undertakes education initiatives to train individuals committed to maintaining and building better communities: Wolseley also contributed to The Prince of Waless Building Craft Apprentices programme, which among other things aims to increase the numbers ofskilled building craftspeople in the UK.
Training at The Prince of Waless Building Craft Apprentices programme run by ThePrinces Foundation for the Built Environment, which Wolseley supported this year.
More information on our Corporate responsibility programme, including Photo credit: Richard Ivey further case studies, statistics and examples of our practices, our employee training programmes, awards and community engagement can be found on the Wolseley plc website at http: www.
Further business unit information is also available on the websites of our subsidiary companies.
