How we behave Sustainability operating companies.
Videoconferences can be booked Waste: We aim to use resources more efficiently so we between any of the rooms and external VC locations via produce less waste, and to reduce the amount of waste sent the Group intranet.
Half to landfill through increased recycling.
Our key waste of all calls involved external links to clients and suppliers.
streams are electronic waste including IT and mobile Renewable electricity: We purchase renewable electricity phones and office consumables including paper, card, where we can, and regularly review electricity sourcing across cans, plastic bottles and toner cartridges.
By the end of 2011, all markets to identify new opportunities.
Around 16% of the we had established preferred suppliers of recycling services total electricity we purchase is generated from renewable for paper and standard office consumables, where possible, sources.
Our renewable electricity purchases reduce our total in all major markets representing 75% of headcount.
We carbon footprint by 23,687 tonnes of CO. Green electricity were not able to complete the process of appointing a global 2 contracts are usually for a fixed period and may not be IT vendor to manage our obsolete IT equipment, including available at competitive prices in future.
However, it is our laptops, desktops and servers in 2011 but plan to do so intention to increase the percentage of electricity purchased in 2012.
Our goal is for obsolete IT equipment to be from renewable sources to 20% by 2015. refurbished and sold for reuse or, if this is not possible, to be broken down for recycling.
Disposal is a last resort, and must be done in compliance with local environmental In 2011, we offset 98,482 tonnes regulations and data security best practice.
We have established arrangements for mobile phone recycling in our which is equivalent to our total offices across Europe and Asia Pacific.
Data on recycling emissions from air travel, by supporting will be available in our Sustainability Report.
renewable energy projects Social investment Carbon offsetting: We offset a portion of our unavoidable CO emissions.
This means paying someone else to reduce Many charities and non-profit organisations lack the financial 2 their carbon emissions by a specified amount.
In 2011, resources to adequately promote their work and campaigns.
we offset 98,482 tonnes, which is equivalent to our total WPP companies make a major contribution through pro bono emissions from air travel, by supporting renewable energy work providing creative services for little or no fee and by projects only we do not support forestry offset.
We reviewed negotiating free media space.
our offset policy in 2011 and appointed a new provider.
From Pro bono work is often worth more than the equivalent 2012 our operating companies will cover the cost of offset cash donation, and is highly valued by charities because it equivalent to their annual air travel emissions.
This will helps them to raise awareness and money and achieve their further incentivise our companies to reduce air travel.
It also supports the development of our people and our companies and showcases our creative skills Resources and waste and ability to create compelling communications on a wide range of issues.
Our people gain a breadth of experience and We aim to use natural resources more efficiently, to the chance to contribute to their communities.
source more sustainable office materials and to reduce We also support a range of good causes through cash waste.
The key elements of our approach are summarised donations at both the parent company and operating below and more information and data is available in company levels, and by supporting employee volunteering.
In 2011, the total value of our social investment was 15.3 Paper: Our target is to source 50% of the paper we million compared with 14.3 million in 2010.
This is equivalent use for copying and printing from recycled sources by 2015. to 1.5% of reported profit before tax.
This figure includes direct On average, in 2011, 35% of the paper purchased by WPP cash donations to charities of 4.8 million and 10.5 million companies contained recycled content.
We have identified worth of pro bono work based on fees the organisations would preferred paper suppliers in all of our major markets 75% have paid for our work.
In addition, WPP media agencies of headcount which our companies are encouraged to use.
negotiated free media space worth 12.4 million on behalf All of these provide paper and paper products with recycled of pro bono clients, making the total social contribution content.
Our managed print program see above, helps us to 27.7 million, or 2.7% of reported profit before tax.
reduce paper use by 20-30% per location.
In 2011, our total paper usage was 9,327 tonnes.
126 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How we behave Sustainability Social investment 2007-2011 m Charitable donations 25 Pro bono work 20 15 10 5 15.3m 0 07 08 09 10 11 .
Examples of recent pro bono campaigns are included in our Sustainability Report.
WPP, the parent company WPP, the parent company, supports a range of charities and non-profit organisations, with a particular focus on education, the arts and young people.
In 2011, the total value of our social investment was 15.3 million compared with 14.3 million in 2010.
This is equivalent to 1.5% of reported profit before tax Many senior WPP executives also give pro bono advice and support.
Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in programs at the following international business schools: London Business School: IESE, Spain: Indian Business School: and Harvard Business School.
He is also chairman of the Executive Committee and of the International Business Council 112 global CEOs of the World Economic Forum and a member of the Business Council in the US.
He is a member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
He is a Patron of the British Museum, a member of the Corporate Advisory Group of the Tate Gallery, deputy chairman of the Mayor of Shanghais International Business Leaders Advisory Council, and on the International Advisory Board of The Russian Museum in St. Petersburg.
He is also chairman of the Mayor of Romes IBAC and of the Mayor of Londons IBAC.
