How we behave Sustainability Many of our companies have developed bespoke Ethical decision-making sustainability services for clients.
These include BursonMarstellers Global Corporate Responsibility Practice, Where we operate, who we work for and the type of Hill Knowlton Strategies CR & Sustainability work we undertake can give rise to ethical issues.
Examples Communications offering, JWT Ethos, Ogilvy Earth, P&Gs include: work undertaken for governments or clients in S-Team including Added Value, FITCH, G2, The Futures sensitive sectors: operating in countries with a poor Company, Hill Knowlton Strategies, Landor and Penn human rights record: and marketing for sensitive or Schoen Berland : and PSB Green.
To help our clients more easily access our sustainability We have established a review and referral process to help expertise and to enhance collaboration on sustainability us identify these cases, to manage any risks to WPP or our between Group companies, we published a Sustainability clients and to make sure our decisions reflect the standards Navigator in early 2012.
This handbook and online in our Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy.
resource summarises our companies sustainability Before accepting work that may pose an ethical risk, offerings together with contact details for sustainability employees are required to elevate the decision to the most experts around the Group.
senior person in the relevant office and then to the most Examples of client work in this area are included senior executive of the WPP operating company in the in our Sustainability Report.
country concerned, who will decide if further referral to a WPP director is required.
WPP has a committee which meets to discuss cases of Marketing ethics concern and identify new risk areas.
Committee members are senior managers at Group level and meetings take place All work produced by WPP companies should present at least quarterly.
The internal audit program of work products fairly and accurately, comply with relevant laws incorporates a review of the considerations given by and marketing codes, and reflect changing public attitudes management to possible impacts on the Groups reputation to questions of taste and decency or marketing of sensitive prior to accepting new clients.
We recognise the challenges involved in distilling Our referral process is outlined in the WPP Policy Book.
complex sustainability issues into simple marketing messages Our ethics training includes a module to help employees and will not produce work for our clients that greenwashes identify ethical risks associated with client work, and to the environmental performance of their company or brands.
make sure they understand the correct referral procedures.
A failure to meet high standards in this area could damage the reputation of WPP, our companies and our clients.
Privacy We recognise the challenges involved Privacy and data security are important issues for WPP.
Our companies collect consumer data through new media and in distilling complex sustainability digital channels as well as consumer research, direct marketing issuesinto simple marketing messages and PR and use it to gather opinions, study attitudes including and will not produce work for purchasing habits and to create targeted digital and direct marketing campaigns.
Awareness of privacy issues continues  the to grow across all markets and is being further cemented by environmental performance of their the introduction of new laws and regulations in this area.
company orbrands Some consumers and interest groups are concerned about the collection and use of personal data for marketing purposes, including practices such as behavioural targeting.
Our principles for marketing ethics are summarised in our Privacy is a complex issue to manage, as changes in Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy.
Both policies are technology can create new challenges.
Regulation available on our website.
In addition many of our companies and standard practices can vary between markets.
have their own policies and guidance for employees.
Few campaigns that we produce for clients provoke Our privacy approach complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur relating to matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated Our approach to privacy is guided by four priorities: by government or industry organisations.
Data on upheld maintaining consumer trust: reducing legal and financial complaints is available in our Sustainability Report.
risks to WPP: educating our people and the people we work with and improving our own knowledge base: and enabling 120 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
