How we behave Sustainability WPPs goal is to be the worlds most successful provider best people.
Creating a diverse company culture widens our of communications services, not just the largest: a Group potential talent pool, and enables people from all backgrounds that the best clients and the best people choose to work to thrive within the Group.
A diverse workforce also enhances with.
To achieve this we need to focus not just on what our understanding of consumers in all markets.
Our investment we do but how we do it.
That means behaving responsibly in high-quality bespoke training helps us to develop the skills towards people and the environment, and responding to needed to grow our business in key areas such as digital the changing expectations of the Groups clients, share marketing and managing cross-company client teams.
owners, our people and other stakeholders.
The younger generations replenishing our talent pool view We see our approach to social, ethical and environmental sustainability issues as central to business.
Questions relating issues as fundamental to our long-term success and believe to sustainability are frequently raised demonstrating that that strong performance creates opportunities for WPP and our commitment to social and environmental issues supports its companies as well as helping to minimise risks.
To better recruitment and retention.
The Groups collective pro bono reflect this, we are now using the term sustainability rather work and support for charities and community organisations than corporate responsibility to describe our approach.
reinforces our reputation for making a positive contribution Our commitment to responsible and sustainable business to society.
enables us to take advantage of new opportunities as well Reputation risk management as to manage social and environmental risks connected Effectively managing social, ethical and environmental risks to our business strategy.
The main business impacts from helps to minimise the possibility of damage to our reputation.
sustainability issues are as follows: There is a potential risk that we undertake work or accept Client relationships and revenue support clients that could harm our reputation.
We evaluate higherSustainability continues to grow in importance for consumers, risk propositions with care and WPP companies undertake governments, brands and businesses worldwide.
Major brands work in compliance with regulations and marketing are increasingly focused on raising standards and managing standards.
New commissions and work in regions with low their reputation by positioning themselves as responsible marketing standards are given particular scrutiny.
Similarly, members of society and stewards of the environment.
This risks associated with business acquisitions and affiliations global business movement is creating opportunities for our are assessed as part of our due diligence procedure.
companies, from research to advice to communications and Access to digital marketing business marketing.
Our companies have responded, developing skills The rapid growth of digital marketing and the convergence and services to meet the needs of clients aiming to establish and connectivity of consumer electronic devices mean that credentials for environmental, social and ethical excellence.
the Group handles and holds increasing amounts of consumer data on behalf of our clients.
Our clients require assurance that we meet best practice standards for privacy and data Our commitment to responsible protection which are central to maintaining our reputation in this important sector.
The Group and its companies are andsustainable business enables us updating policies and procedures to ensure we meet best totake advantage of new opportunities practice in this area.
as well asto manage social and Meeting investor expectations WPP share owners continue to show interest in how we environmental risks connected toour manage sustainability risks and opportunities and we aim business strategy to respond constructively to their requests for information see pages 118 and 119.
Europe has the largest market for responsible investment, with approximately 5 trillion assets WPPs status as the first mover in sustainability in under management.
The US has $3 trillion, and Asia is our sector is now helping our companies enter this market predicted to have $4 trillion by 2015. with confidence and credibility.
In addition to  efficiency related marketing briefs, a growing number of clients are Our climate change strategy is tangible evidence of requesting information on our own sustainability policies and our environmental commitment and supports our good performance through their tender and supplier management reputation.
The strategy also reduces costs associated with processes.
Clients who engaged with WPP on our approach business travel and energy use in offices.
In 2011, energy to sustainability were worth at least $1 billion to the Group use across the Group decreased by 1.5% which represents in 2011, and we believe the total figure is likely to be higher.
an approximate cost saving of half a million US dollars.
Attracting and retaining the best people Investing in initiatives to improve employee health and There is fierce competition for talent in our industry.
Adopting wellbeing can also help to improve productivity and leading employment practices helps us to attract and retain the reduce costs related to time off work due to illness.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 117 How we behave Sustainability Sustainability management Risk and opportunity Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, is the We take an integrated approach to risk management which Board director responsible for sustainability.
To help embed encompasses financial and non-financial risks.
Our key sustainability in our business, a proportion of the variable sustainability risks are explained in Principal risks and element of his remuneration is linked to the Groups uncertainties on page 112 to 114, and include marketing performance on sustainability issues.
ethics, privacy and data protection, employment practices and Paul Richardson chairs WPPs Sustainability Committee climate change.
Providing sustainability marketing services to previously called our Corporate Responsibility Committee, clients is our most significant sustainability opportunity, see established in 2003.
The committee is made up of senior The impact of our work section on pages 119 and 120. representatives from Group functions and our companies, At every Board meeting, the Group chief executive and serves as a forum to review strategy and progress presents a Brand Check review of each of the business against targets, to share best practice around the Group operations, including an assessment of risk in each business.
and to identify opportunities for collaboration.
The This includes sustainability risks such as employment risks committee met once formally in 2011 when the main and marketing ethics risks.
topics discussed were: Paul Richardson also provides an annual assessment Opportunities associated with sustainable marketing of sustainability risks and performance to the Nomination Marketing ethics and risk management and Governance Committee prior to 2011 the assessment Privacy and data security was made to the Audit Committee.
This is in addition Employment practices to the business and financial reporting risks process Progress against our climate change strategy described earlier in this section of the report.
Supply chain management Reviews of sustainability risks may be included in internal Our approach to managing sustainability issues reflects audits or SOX audits depending on their scope.
Significant the diversified and fide-centralised structure of the Group.
findings are related to the Audit Committee.
Strategic direction and underlying policy principles are established by the parent company, for example through Data and reporting the WPP Code of Conduct and Group Sustainability Policy.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by our We have established a set of key performance indicators operating companies to reflect their businesses.
KPIs relating to employment, social investment, environment and climate change.
We report performance against these in our annual Sustainability Report.
Feedback from clients, investors, Operating companies report their sustainability data to the parent company quarterly through our Group financial ourpeople and other stakeholders helps reporting system.
us to improve how we manage social We will publish our 10th social and environmental andenvironmental issues and to identify performance report in June 2012.
The report will provide a detailed account of our sustainability performance.
A emerging risks andopportunities summary of our progress is provided on the following pages.
Stakeholder engagement We have a small central sustainability function within the parent company, which is responsible for strategy Feedback from clients, investors, our people and other development, coordinating data collection, reporting and stakeholders helps us to improve how we manage social communication on sustainability with responsible investors, and environmental issues and to identify emerging risks other stakeholders and our companies.
It works with and opportunities.
other Group functions, such as our talent team, legal, We respond to regular requests for information from communications, compliance, internal audit, real estate, clients on our approach to sustainability issues and we IT and procurement, to progress the sustainability agenda.
collaborate with them on these topics as appropriate.
It helps raise awareness of sustainability across the Group For example, WPP is a member of P&Gs Sustainability and provides support and guidance on sustainability issues Supplier Board and is helping them to pilot their supplier to our operating companies.
The head of sustainability sustainability scorecard project.
reports directly to the Group finance director.
We assist investors to understand the issues material to WPPs Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy our business and respond to their feedback where possible.
are publicly available on our website, www.
To raise investor awareness of our approach to sustainability 118 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
