How we behave Sustainability our clients to use consumer data appropriately to enhance talent in our industry, particularly in fast-growing economies their marketing.
and in areas such as digital marketing.
As our business The parent company provides guidance and advice to strategy evolves, we also need the right people to fill new the operating companies on privacy and data security issues.
roles: for example, to run the growing number of crossWe are adding privacy and data security to our revised ethics company account teams we have introduced.
training which will be rolled out to all employees in 2012.
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion, high-quality To raise awareness among our people and to help them training and competitive remuneration supports our efforts understand their legal responsibilities and the need to balance to attract and retain the best people with the right skills.
commercial objectives with privacy obligations a briefing We believe that a reputation for environmental and social document has been added to the Group intranet.
This defines responsibility also enhances the appeal of our companies basic privacy-related terms and includes guidance on privacy to prospective recruits.
clauses in client contracts, data privacy expectations and WPPs chief talent officer, Mark Linaugh, and our talent what to do if a breach occurs.
It was presented to the finance team assist our companies to attract and develop our talent.
directors of Group companies in 2011: some companies have Our Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy provide distributed it directly to each of their employees.
In 2012, guidance to our companies on the principles which should we will survey a representative sample of our companies to underpin employment policies at WPP companies.
Human further improve our understanding of the type of data they resources policies are agreed and implemented at operating are handling, and its location, so that we can provide more company level.
Our key digital marketing and research companies Diversity and inclusion have nominated senior executives to provide leadership on privacy, and they work with other companies in the Group Workplace diversity enables us to better understand the and clients to share best practice.
Many of our companies varied interests and expectations of consumers.
An inclusive have policies and procedures covering how data including workplace culture helps us to attract talented people from protected types of personal data should be handled, and all backgrounds and to create an environment where they some have developed their own technology and tools to can do their best work.
Our non-discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, We continue to review the contractual arrangements commits all WPP companies to select and promote people we have in place with our suppliers and clients to clarify our based on merit and regardless of factors such as race, respective roles and responsibilities, to make sure these are religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, appropriate and consistent and to ensure that they continue gender identity or expression, age or disability.
Policies on to meet the requirements of evolving laws and regulations.
harassment and non-discrimination are included in our Code In 2011, we started to audit these contracts to make sure of Conduct.
In the case of disability, our policy is to provide provisions are being met.
continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
We work with partners on privacy issues.
Our companies meet with regulators and participate in consultation exercises to give their views on proposed regulation.
In Workplace diversity enables us to 2011 this included an initiative with the Digital Innovation better understand the varied interests and Privacy Forum on forthcoming European Union data and expectations of consumers protection legislation which will significantly change the way that consumers data is stored online.
John Montgomery, COO at GroupM Interaction, is currently chair of the American Association of Our people can report any concerns or suspected Advertising Agencies Privacy Committee which works cases of discrimination or misconduct confidentially and to address internet privacy issues, particularly related anonymously if desired through our Right to Speak helpline.
Policies and programs aimed at increasing workforce More information is available in our Sustainability Report.
diversity are designed and implemented by our operating companies.
To support this, the parent company provides opportunities for our companies to share ideas and best WPP as an employer practices and to hear insights from experts and organisations working in this field.
For example, during 2011 the Leading employment practices help us to recruit and retain FutureWork Institute led a workshop for our global HR the best people across our markets with the skills we need to directors in New York designed to develop skills that help achieve our business strategy.
There is fierce competition for overcome gender inequality in the workplace.
We also held WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 121 How we behave Sustainability a workshop for HR directors in the UK, where our company business and creative skills.
Centralised programs companies met with a number of expert organisations enable participation by all WPP companies and promote including Business in the Communitys Race for Opportunity collaboration across disciplines and regions.
In 2011, WPP and Opportunity Now, the Employers Forum on Disability companies invested 58.3 million in training and wellbeing, and Stonewall.
a 19% increase over the previous year and a 9% increase All of our major companies have internal programs per person.
to promote diversity and inclusion in their workforce.
Our goal is for our people at all levels to receive These include: regular performance appraisals.
Partnerships: our companies work with diversity organisations and participate in initiatives to encourage diversity.
In the US, these include AAF Most Promising Staff training and welfare m Minority Student: Asian Women in Business: The National Black Public Relations Society: National Association of Black 38.6 42.6 39.9 48.9 58.3 50 Journalists: National Association of Hispanic Journalists: 40 City University of New York: the LAGRANT Foundation 30 and the 4As Diversity Programs.
Internships: In the US, several companies participate in 20 the AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program 10 0 MAIP and other initiatives that allow minority students to 58.3m 07 08 09 10 11 gain experience in the marketing industry.
In many countries our companies have developed partnerships with local schools to encourage students from a wider range of backgrounds to consider a career in marketing services.
Group-wide training programs include: Targeted recruitment: to help diversify their recruitment WPP Spectrum, currently being piloted by Young & pools, many of our companies use specialist recruitment Rubicam Group, is a new program designed to develop the agencies and publications and attend minority recruitment fairs.
next generation of multidisciplinary global client leaders.
Raising employee awareness: training and awareness Through 360 degree assessments, personal development campaigns help employees understand the importance planning, networking, collaboration and knowledge sharing, and business benefits of diversity and inclusion.
and interaction with senior leaders from WPP and our operating companies, participants gain the Super Skills needed Gender diversity 2007-2011 for roles of this size and complexity.
The program supports our % women strategy of developing multi-company, multidisciplinary teams 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 differentiated by their ability to navigate changing market Totalemployees 55 54 54 54 54 conditions, translate insights into powerful ideas, mobilise Seniormanagers 47 47 46 48 47 resources and deliver exceptional work.
It has been developed Boardmembers in partnership with some of our major clients and will be executiveleaders 33 32 32 31 31 available to interested companies in the Group in 2012.
There are currently three women on WPPs Board and a female Company Secretary, Group communications director WPP Spectrum... isa new and Group chief counsel.
programdesigned to develop the Data on ethnicity and nationality are provided in our nextgeneration of multidisciplinary Sustainability Report.
global client leaders Development and training High-quality training enables our people to gain new skills Maestro: Orchestrating Client Value is our flagship and to advance their careers within the Group.
It supports executive education program.
This five-day course is aimed our business strategy, for example through enabling more at strengthening the ability of our most senior client leaders of our workforce to develop and keep up-to-date the skills to be valued and trusted advisers to their clients, colleagues we need to grow our digital marketing business.
Since the programs inception in 2003, it has thousand people take part in training and professional been held in 22 countries, has reached more than 2,500 development opportunities each year at both the parent participants and involved 82 WPP companies.
These cover all aspects of The WPP Mini MBA is designed to build functional 122 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How we behave Sustainability knowledge and abilities.
It combines online tutorials the UK, we are one of around 100 companies that signed and simulations with instructor-led classroom training.
up to the Governments Business Compact, which supports Business disciplines covered are growing and winning social mobility among young people.
Our approach to business, strategy, marketing, people and organisational supporting local schools, raising young peoples aspirations, development, commercial acumen and working across improving skills and giving young people access to jobs, are cultures.
Approximately 1,300 people have participated very much in line with the commitments that the compact in the program.
For example, we have built a successful partnership The X Factor is a senior mentoring and development over many years with Charles Edward Brooke School in program, led by the former global CEO of Ogilvy & Mather Lambeth, London.
and chairman of JWT, Charlotte Beers, which prepares In addition, one of our senior parent company executives, high-potential women in our operating companies for the Peter Dart, is a trustee of the UKs Education and Employers next level of leadership.
So far, 44 women have completed Taskforce, which aims to create connections between schools the program.
We are involved in their Speakers for Schools In 2011 we resourced a training program in Shanghai initiative which invites prominent business leaders to speak at in conjunction with the China Europe International Business schools.
In 2012, we will be participating in their Inspiring the School to promote global client and agency leadership.
Future initiative, which enables pupils to meet with managers We will host a second program in Africa in 2012. from large companies and find out what their job involves.
Education and social mobility Remuneration and share ownership A successful marketing and communications services We benchmark our reward packages against other business is built on the intelligence, insight and creativity of companies in the sector to ensure our pay packages are its people.
Having a pool of talented people to recruit from set at the right level.
In addition to base pay, many of our across our markets is central to our success.
people participate in performance-based incentive plans that reward achievement against annual or longer-term goals relevant to their area of the business.
Support for education and social Participation in share-based incentive plans gives our people the opportunity to acquire a stake in the Company mobility promotes long-term economic and share in its success.
Senior employees receive a development which makes it significant part of their compensation through share-based particularly important in the current incentive plans.
In 1997, WPP introduced the Worldwide Ownership Plan that typically makes share awards to challenging economic climate approximately 47,000 eligible employees per year in over 78 countries and, since inception, has made awards to over 110,400 of our people.
We also provide local benefits such We invest time, money and expertise in education as retirement and medical plans.
and social mobility programmes to support our local For information on our approach to executive communities and help to make sure that, in the future, we remuneration, see page 130. have people with the skills we require.
We take a targeted approach, aiming to build long-term relationships in Communication geographic regions that are strategically important to us.
China is currently facing a shortage of talent, and this is Regular communication helps our people in all markets where our business is growing most quickly.
We are working to keep up-to-date with Group news and changes in the with the Shanghai Art & Design Academy SADA to launch business.
In addition, our operating companies use a range Chinas first marketing and communications program focused of channels to communicate news and to obtain feedback.
on applying skills in the commercial environment.
The first We are integrating questions on sustainability into the 50 students enrolled in September 2011, chosen from a pool employee opinion surveys conducted by our operating of 1,358.
They will complete a three-year diploma program companies to help us assess attitudes and awareness around which brings together a strong academic and creative the Group.
The questions relate to issues such as ethics, curriculum combined with practical application.
It is training, wellbeing and the environment.
The results will anticipated that the annual class will eventually total 300. be published in our Sustainability Report.
Support for education and social mobility promotes Group-wide communications channels include: long-term economic development which makes it particularly WPPs multi-award-winning public website important in the current challenging economic climate.
com, Group intranet site, social media WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 123
