How were doing Letter to share owners WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library of think offerings in the telecommunications sector to increase pieces both public and original from WPP professionals efficiencies and to provide enhanced support to our worldwide: our online Fact Files profiling Group resources increasingly mobile workforce.
companies products: regular communication on Group initiatives such as the WPP Worldwide Partnership Program and the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program: our annual Practice development Sustainability Report and this consistently award-winning Annual Report, both in print and online.
In practice development we continue to develop horizontal initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas across our vertical operating brands: in media investment management, Property management healthcare, corporate sustainability, government, new technologies, new faster-growing markets, retailing, shopper In 2011, we were able to reduce our core property portfolio.
marketing, internal communications, financial services and Although square footage rose by 1.7% from 22.8 million sq media and entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest ft to 23.2 million sq ft at the end of the year, this increase in sharing insights and developing initiatives through WPP was less than the 3.1% of revenue growth attributable to Digital in digital marketing and media and The Store acquisitions and considerably less than constant currency in distribution and retail.
revenue growth of 8.4%, meaning our core portfolio In key geographic markets we are increasingly excluding the impact of acquisitions reduced.
Consequently, coordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
average square foot per head dropped to 211 sq ft, well ahead We continue to believe that increasing coordination is of the target of 220 sq ft we set ourselves.
required between our brands at the country and global levels, As a result of this improvement in space utilisation the as the arguments for investment in regional management establishment cost-to-revenue ratio dropped to 6.7%, ahead become weaker.
In addition, we have increased the number of our long-term 7% run rate and in spite of a 3% increase in of WPP Global Client Leaders to coordinate our efforts on cost per square foot.
For 2012 we will continue our focus on behalf of clients and to ensure they receive maximum benefit the key drivers of space per head, particularly in the US from their relationships with WPP operating brands.
Over where it runs above our average, and the cost per square 30 global client leaders have been appointed so far.
foot on our lease renewals, particularly in the faster-growing Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic markets where the rental markets are rising fastest.
Our aim alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice development is to maintain the establishment cost-to-revenue ratio at 7% initiatives have therefore been reinforced in such areas as or even reduce it.
healthcare, retail, internal communications, corporate sustainability and media and entertainment.
This has been especially important in developing our portfolio of direct Procurement investments in new media under WPP Digital and where our investments are working with our agencies and people to We continue to target clear sector leadership in procurement, bring new technology capabilities and understanding to our through continuous investment in people, processes and clients.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that we, technology.
WPP has professional procurement resources the parent company, really do as well as being perceived to based in 14 countries.
inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise Our goal is to make savings and add value across all our operating companies to achieve their strategic and of WPPs bought-out spend, with particular emphasis on operational goals.
opportunities to leverage our global, regional or local scale to the benefit of our clients and our operating companies.
Sustainability Information technology The Groups commitment to, and investment in, sustainability initiatives supports major business wins.
In IT we continue to consolidate our core technology We estimate that clients who engaged with WPP on our infrastructure with the objectives of reducing cost and approach to sustainability were worth at least $1 billion improving quality.
This enables our operating companies to the Group in 2011.
See pages 117 to 127 for more to concentrate their efforts on clientrelated developments on sustainability at WPP.
and other internal business-focused applications.
The convergence of mobile, voice and data communications has allowed us to take advantage of new 28 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 How were doing Letter to share owners Sustainability performance summary Our practice development activities are also aimed at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing 2011 2010 Change % functional and geographic areas.
In 2011, 24 acquisitions Value of client business supported and investments were in new markets, 32 in new media and byour sustainability credentials $1bn eight in Consumer Insight, including data analytics and the Gender diversity % of women totalemployees 54% 54% 0% application of technology, with the balance of seven driven Gender diversity % of women Board by individual client or agency needs.
directors executive leaders 31% 31% 0% Specifically, in 2011, acquisitions and increased equity Investment in training and welfare 58.3m 48.9m 19% stakes were completed in Advertising and Media Investment Carbon footprint tonnes of CO 2 Management in the US, France, Germany, the Netherlands, perperson 2.44 2.51 -3% Bahrain, South Africa, Brazil, Chile, China, India, South Social investment million 15.3m 14.3m 7% Korea and the Philippines: in Consumer Insight in the US, Value of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and Ireland, Germany, Poland, Russia, Kenya, Japan and Sri performance through their supplier management process.
Lanka: in Public Relations & Public Affairs in the US, the UK, South Africa and Singapore: in direct, digital and Fifth, to continue to place greater emphasis interactive in the US, the UK, Austria, Brazil, China, the on revenue growth.
One legitimate criticism Philippines and Singapore: and in Specialist Communications of our performance against the best-performing in the US and Kenya.
5competition is our comparative level of organic So far in 2012, the Group has made acquisitions revenue growth, although the methods used to calculate rates or increased equity interests in Advertising and Media of organic growth vary to say the least and we may have Investment Management in Israel, China, Singapore and put too much emphasis on margin improvement.
In 2011, Indonesia: in Consumer Insight in China and New Zealand: our like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3% was strong but not in Public Relations & Public Affairs in the US, Finland, as strong as others, although quarter-four growth of 4.5% Russia and Hong Kong: and in direct, digital and interactive was in the middle of the pack.
On a gross margin basis, the in Russia and Australia.
These acquisitions continue to move Groups like-for-like growth of 5.9% was in line with our us forward to our previously described strategic priorities: leading competitors.
Our margin performance is consistently expanding the share of revenues of our businesses in Asia at the top end of the pack.
Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe to 35-40%: in new media to 35-40%: and in Consumer Insight, direct, digital and Organic revenue growth vs peers % interactive, to over one-half.
We intend to expand our strong networks Ogilvy WPP & Mather Advertising, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United, bates, IPG 10 Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, Maxus, tenthavenue, TNS, Omnicom Millward Brown, Kantar Media, Kantar Health, Kantar 5 Publicis Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, Hill Knowlton Strategies, 0 Havas Ogilvy Public Relations, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, WPP organic -5 OgilvyOne Worldwide, Wunderman, OgilvyAction, G2, gross margin growth -10 Possible Worldwide, 24 7 Media, Ogilvy CommonHealth Q409 Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 Q111 Q211 Q311 Q411 Worldwide, Sudler & Hennessey, ghg, The Brand Union, Landor and FITCH in high-growth markets or where their market share is insufficient.
Given the significance of Consumer Insight revenues We will also enhance our leadership position in Consumer to the Group, with none of our direct competitors present Insight by further development of our key brands with particular in that sector, gross margin and gross margin margins are emphasis on North America, Asia Pacific, Latin America and a more meaningful measure of comparative, competitive Continental and Eastern Europe.
We will continue our growth revenue growth and margin performance.
This is because of research panels and have established a Kantar-wide Consumer Insight revenues include pass-through costs, operational capability.
We will reinforce our growing position principally for data collection, on which no margin is in media research through Kantar Media, which includes our charged and with the growth of the internet, the process investments in television audience research through the former of data collection is more efficient.
TNS Media Intelligence and TNS Media Research, and IBOPE Estimated net new business billings of 3.2 billion $5.2 and Marktest, which, combined, is the market leader outside billion were won in 2011, up over 7% on 2010, placing the North America.
We now measure television and or Group first or second in all leading net new business tables.
internet audiences in 47 countries around the world.
