48 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Acting responsibly towards all our stakeholders is an important commitment for the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 49 For more information visit: www.
com cr We are committed to acting responsibly Due to the nature of our work in the UK, Our safety performance towards all our stakeholders and to taking where we have people working directly It is with deepest regret that we report a leadership position within our sector.
We on the roads and railways, we face some on the fatality of a staff member and publish information about our performance significantly different safety risks compared serious injury to a contractors staff on our website www.
com cr to our operations elsewhere in the world.
member that occurred at Houston Airport, and summarise the years activities here.
Last year, we reported that our highways USA while we were overseeing the Our Corporate Responsibility Review is and transportation business in the UK set construction of an Automated People structured in accordance with our policies the industry standard for designing out Mover.
We have carried out our own on safety leadership, carbon reduction, risk.
This demonstration of good practice investigation, in addition to cooperating respect for the environment, excellence in has now been recognised by the Health with the relevant authorities and we have delivery and working with our community.
and Safety Executive HSE and is available subsequently implemented changes to Information relating to our people is through its website www.
systems and procedures as a consequence.
included in the Human Resources Review Our highways business in the UK has also and information on corporate responsibility been raising awareness of the risks We report accidents and incidents for governance and business conduct can associated with working on highways.
staff, contractors and joint ventures, be found in the Corporate Governance We have produced a DVD for haulage and in situations where we are principal section.
companies to raise awareness of the role contractor.
The Accident Incident Rate impact protection vehicles play in AIR is used to measure our accident Safety leadership protecting road workers.
This DVD was performance for staff and contractors.
We We remain committed to health and safety featured on the BBCs Inside Out East set our own challenging AIR benchmarks improvement beyond that required by law of England programme on BBC One and based on a reduction from the previous in the regions in which we operate.
year of 5% for office, engineering and continue to work with industry through for construction.
The AIR benchmarks national forums such as the Construction In the Middle East we have achieved number of accidents per 100,000 staff Industry Council CIC and the Consultants significant recognition from our client for or contractors for 2011 are 132 for Health and Safety Forum, as well as our delivery of an environment, health and office, 273 for engineering and 1,373 for attending forums for specific clients and safety management system EHSMS for construction.
Al Ain Municipality in the UAE.
The EHSMS for the municipal infrastructure and The overall performance was within our Working with the Consultants Health and assets sector has been certified to the AIR benchmarks, with the exception of Safety Forum and Construction Skills, international standards OHSAS 18001 staff in the engineering category where we have developed and launched an and ISO 14001. it was just exceeded.
We are pleased with international health and safety assessment the improvements made for staff in the in our Asia Pacific, Europe and Middle East We continue to improve safety leadership construction category, reflecting our regions.
No such assessment existed across the Group.
Last year more than continued effort to improve safety.
Our previously outside the UK.
The assessment 170 senior managers in the UK attended AIR performance continues to be better is based on the Construction Skills our safety leadership course.
Directors than the industry averages compiled Certification Scheme CSCS health and continue to undertake safety tours across by the HSE in its Labour Force Survey safety test which is used in the UK.
Our rail business in the UK see figure 1.
We continue to actively has had further success with its Safe by encourage the reporting of incidents and Choice behavioural programme which has near misses as a positive step towards seen a 50% reduction in minor accidents.
This year 1,814 near In February, the programme won a second misses were reported compared to 1,227 in national industry award.
2010 demonstrating increased awareness of the importance of safety reporting.
Pages 44 to 47 Human Resources Review Pages 64 to 71 Corporate Governance Report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 50 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued We have taken a more proactive approach Regulatory activity In North America, the Occupational Safety to measuring our safety performance During the year, we recorded 11 visits by and Health Administration OSHA issued with the introduction of the Atkins safety enforcement authorities.
An improvement three regulatory citations but these are maturity model.
This supports our vision notice was served on Atkins Limited in currently being contested through the for safety to become totally embedded the UK.
This related to undertaking the formal dispute process.
within our culture and become a natural construction design and management consideration.
The maturity model coordinator role which requires the We have not been prosecuted for any introduces four levels on the journey to introduction of a system of management breaches of health and safety regulations.
natural safety, starting at unaware, moving and control to ensure information is passed through compliance to proactive, and then from client to principal contractor.
Each business A detailed investigation was carried out can benchmark against the model to and improvements were made to our determine its maturity level and therefore internal processes.
The feedback from identify the improvements required to HSE is that we exceeded its expectations move to the next level.
Last year, we in addressing the issues and no further established through a benchmarking action was taken.
exercise, that our businesses worldwide are either at compliance or proactive levels.
All our operations, apart from those that 1 we recently acquired in North America, Our safety target are covered by the OHSAS 18001 specification.
Aims targets Monitoring Indicator Baseline Safety in design Quarterly review Number of red 2011 data Atkins Limited in the UK achieved a Royal with business amber green lists Society for the Prevention of Accidents developed industry RoSPA Gold award for the second year, sector engineering and our asset management business in discipline the UK achieved an Order of Distinction for the 24th year running.
We have also Measure Atkins SHE culture survey The use of four 2009 data achieved a Gold RoSPA award for safety culture in the dimensions of outstanding safety performance through non-UK regions Atkins safety ACKtiv, a nuclear joint venture that we are culture part of alongside Carillion and Jacobs.
management commitment, staff engagement, training and competence, and communication Progress summary The safety target for last year was to measure our safety culture in the UK and Bangalore.
Safety, health and environment SHE culture surveys were undertaken as part of the two-year Group wide rolling programme, which gave us the opportunity to compare the information with previous surveys.
Over 4,100 employees responded to both surveys.
When compared to the previous surveys for the UK November 2008 and the Bangalore office May 2009 the results are similar.
Our commitment to safety remains strong and we have a positive safety culture.
Following the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010, a phased three-year programme was developed In 2011 12 the survey will be extended to our non-UK locations to reflect our geographic for our North America region to embed Atkins footprint.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 51 Ranked as a leading FTSE 350 carbon performer.
com CDP Carbon reduction We have been appointed as the first UK In October 2009 we launched our Carbon critical design consultancy partner to the Carbon Raising Awareness Cutting Energy RACE The Group began its carbon critical Disclosure Project and will soon be campaign to raise awareness and cut design awareness programme in 2008 supporting other FTSE-listed companies energy consumption in our property to encourage senior managers to engage to measure and reduce their carbon portfolio by 12.5% by March 2011. their teams in the role engineers will have emissions.
We continue to engage with Nearly 70 of our locations worldwide to play to deliver a low carbon economy industry and clients on carbon critical have participated in the campaign to date.
and to transfer knowledge within the design, resulting in more exemplar projects By establishing a positive energy culture business.
We have continued to build which can be viewed on our website in these properties we have reduced our on that activity to improve levels of client www.
engagement and have extended our investment in the development of a suite Our carbon performance On 1 October 2010 we completed our of carbon tools to more than 2m.
The Group continues to be recognised acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation in as a Standard Bearer, having achieved the North America.
We have extended our Since the tools were launched last year they Carbon Trust Standard for our UK methodology for calculating carbon have been used more than 3,000 times to operations in 2009.
Following our own emissions to include these operations.
help reduce the carbon associated with successful certification to the Standard, They will subsequently take part in our projects.
We also conducted a thorough we have supported the Carbon Trust in RACE campaign and will be included in internal review of the carbon tools widening the message of the importance future CDP submissions.
Improvements of carbon management to other identified as part of this review will be organisations.
We plan to renew our implemented in the coming year.
certification to the Standard in the UK later this year.
We have had our process for We have also invested significantly in calculating our carbon emissions externally research into how the behaviour of reviewed in line with ISO 14064-1.
The composite structures under aerodynamic verification statement appears on page 52. and inertial forces will contribute towards the design of lightweight and energy In 2010 we were rated in the top 12 efficient structures, including aircraft companies in the FTSE 350 in the Carbon wings, wind turbine and gas turbine Disclosure Project CDP.
Our overall blades, bridges and gantries, and reporting score was up to 83 out of 100, lightweight oil rig structures.
Through this placing us in the Carbon Disclosure research we are helping to drive forward Leadership Index for the first time.
We the development of future carbon critical were also given an A rating in the structures across a range of industries performance section of CDP, placing us in around the world.
the new Carbon Performance Leadership Index.
Only 12 companies appeared in both During the course of the year our chief indexes.
More information can be found executive Keith Clarke delivered the online via www.
Institution of Civil Engineers Brunel International Lecture Series in 11 locations around the world.
His lecture, entitled The Delivery of a Low Carbon Society Beyond Rhetoric, focused on the role engineers will need to play to address the challenge of climate change.
Page 52 Verification of greenhouse gas emissions WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 52 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Verification of greenhouse gas emissions Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Ltd has provided limited assurance of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for financial year 2010 11 in line with ISO 14064-1.
This process covers our scope 1 and 2 emissions in Asia Pacific, Europe, India, the Middle East and the UK and scope 3 emissions from business travel in the UK.
The process will be extended to include North America and scope 3 emissions in all other regions in 2011 12.
Limited assurance means nothing has come to the auditors attention that would indicate that the data is not correct.
Our carbon emissions We are now able to report on business In the Middle East emissions from business We are able to report on our energy travel emissions for all of our operations travel totalled 2,417 tonnes.
Emissions 1 consumption for all of our operations in including North America.
Our business resulting from business travel in India Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, India, travel data covers all road, air and rail travel totalled 423 tonnes last year.
In the Asia the UK and North America.
We consume for the UK, company car, air and rail travel Pacific region emissions from business gas, electricity and diesel oil in our own for Europe and India, and company car travel were 1,215 tonnes.
Figures 2 and 3 at the end of and air travel for the Asia Pacific region emissions from business travel were 2 the Corporate Responsibility Review show and North America.
In North America we emitted 2 the average emissions per employee, the equivalent emissions associated with 6,407 tonnes of CO from business travel.
2 3 total emissions for each region and the split business travel were 31,643 tonnes.
This includes an 18.5% reduction in of emissions between scope 1, 2 and 3 as emissions from air travel from our existing defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
In the UK our carbon emissions resulting operations in North America.
from business travel have increased by Worldwide, we emitted 24,538 tonnes 13%, from 17,769 equivalent tonnes CO In the UK our financial incentive to 2 1 of CO from energy consumption.
In the during 2009 10 to 20,675 tonnes of CO encourage employees to choose lower 2 2 UK we emitted 14,668 tonnes of CO in 2010 11.
This increase is against the emitting company car vehicles continues 2 from electricity and gas consumption and backdrop of a 7% decrease in average to be successful.
The average carbon through air conditioning equipment under headcount over the same period.
The main emissions of our UK company car fleet of our control.
In the Asia Pacific region reasons for this rise are significantly higher 1,500 vehicles are now down to 136g km our carbon emissions from electricity vehicle movements in our highways and compared to 148g km last year.
Across transportation business as a result of the Europe our carbon emissions from very cold winter across the UK and more electricity and gas consumption were long-haul flights connected to the 707 tonnes.
In the Middle East our carbon acquisition of PBSJ in North America.
emissions from electricity and diesel oil consumption in our properties were 2,177 tonnes.
Emissions from our office in Bangalore, India were 770 tonnes of CO 2 from electricity and diesel oil consumption.
The calculation for CO emissions from our energy In North America we emitted 5,549 2 consumption is made using the latest published tonnes of CO from electricity and diesel 2 Department for Environment, Food and Rural oil consumption in our properties including Affairs DEFRA grid rolling average figures for electricity in the UK and for gas in the UK and emissions post acquisition.
We use the five-year rolling average from the latest published Greenhouse Gas Protocol figures for each country other than the UK for electricity.
Where data does not exist we Our carbon target extrapolate known consumption data in the region to include the remaining locations.
Aims targets Monitoring Indicator Baseline 2.
Atkins acquired PBSJ in North America on 1 October 2010.
The data and information relating To achieve a 15% Energy Total consumption Annual to PBSJ contained in the Corporate Responsibility reduction by the end consumption data of gas and consumption up Review cover the period 1 October 2010 to of 2011 and extend electricity to October 2009 31 March 2011.
This is combined with data from the RACE campaign our existing operations in North America.
The calculation for CO equivalent emissions from to operations in 2 our business travel is made using the latest North America published DEFRA direct emission figures for road and air travel for all regions except North America, the DEFRA figures for rail travel in the UK, the Progress summary Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol US Intercity rail emissions figure for non-UK rail travel in the The target was to reduce energy consumption by 12.5% between October 2009 and absence of valid country specific information, March 2011. and the GHG figure for air travel in North America.
The calculations include the conversion of other Almost 70 locations are now participating in RACE since launch worldwide in October 2009. greenhouse gases into carbon emissions.
The numbers reported for 2009 10 have been revised More than 7,000 staff have completed the RACE e-learning modules.
Where comparable due to changing DEFRA emissions factors to enable data exists we have reduced energy consumption by 11.2%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 53 Respect for the environment operations.
However, we are able to Our water performance The Group is committed to conducting report on waste and recycling for a number We lease the majority of our properties and business in an environmentally responsible of key UK properties that account for therefore it is difficult to obtain relevant manner.
All of our operations worldwide, approximately 35% of our UK staff.
water consumption data for the majority 1 apart from North America, are covered by Through these locations approximately of our locations.
We are able to monitor the ISO 14001 standard.
In the UK we have 45% of the waste is recycled.
In Sweden consumption at locations in the Middle introduced online payslips, reducing the and Denmark we continue to divert 100% East, India, Ireland, Poland, Portugal and need to print approximately 11,000 payslips of waste away from landfill through in the UK, covering approximately 30% every month.
In Sweden we have signed recycling or conversion to energy.
our first green lease to ensure that we Asia Pacific region we recycled 63% of our maximise the environmental potential for waste.
Our operations in Poland recycled We have introduced rainwater harvesting the Stockholm office.
All energy supplied 24% of their waste, while operations in the during an office refurbishment project in now comes from renewable sources and Middle East recycled 72% of their waste.
Our office refurbishment in agreements have been made with the Shanghai also incorporated grey water landlord to reduce energy consumption In the UK we have continued with our recycling, solar water heating and waterless and ensure that all waste is dealt with in composting of food waste at our Epsom urinals.
the most environmentally responsible and Bristol offices.
The scheme has proved manner.
very successful with more than 20 tonnes Regulatory activity of food waste diverted away from landfill In the last year we received two visits from The following is a summary of our activities and we are looking at extending this the Environment Agency in the UK and on waste reduction, water efficiency and system to other key properties.
no visits elsewhere in the world.
enforcement action was taken during the Water reduction year and we have not been prosecuted for Waste reduction We understand that water is a limited any breaches of environmental legislation.
In September 2009 we signed up to the resource around the world and we work WRAP Waste and Resources Action with clients to develop water-efficient Programme Halving Waste to Landfill solutions.
Further details can be found commitment in the UK.
We have made on our website, www.
significant progress towards this target.
Our highways and transportation business in the UK diverted an average of 80% of waste away from landfill through the five Our environmental target commissions that we manage on behalf Aims targets Monitoring Indicator Baseline of clients.
In Ireland a significant design change at a complex junction on the M50 Extend designing out Quarterly business Number of Red 2011 data upgrade project resulted in the avoidance waste to cover review Amber Green 3 of 60,000m of waste material being environment in lists developed excavated, weighing an estimated 110,000 design industry sector tonnes.
engineering discipline Our waste performance We continue to improve and refine our Progress summary waste management facilities where The key principles for designing out waste have been embedded within the UK business.
As we lease the majority of We are able to report on actual project savings and in many examples we have exceeded our properties it is very difficult to obtain the 50% target.
accurate waste data for all of our The principles have also been introduced outside the UK and will be further embedded in non-UK operations during the coming year.
Best practice examples will be shared across the business.
Following the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010, a phased three-year programme was developed An e-learning module will be launched during 2011 to ensure that employees understand for our North America region to embed Atkins the key principles to consider for designing out waste.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews 54 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review continued Excellence in delivery Technical excellence Assurance To help ensure that we consistently deliver All of our businesses successfully Common business management technical excellence, 14 technical networks transitioned their management systems system BMS continue to operate across the Group.
to the revised standard for ISO 9001 As part of the Groups business These networks are chaired by respected before the November 2010 deadline.
This improvement programme, significant specialists who provide leadership in their significant achievement reflects ongoing progress has been made to develop and appointed subject or discipline, identify compliance with pertinent sector schemes, adopt a common business management investment opportunities, and raise the as required by some of our clients, and system.
The aim of the BMS is to enable profile of Atkins.
During the year we have with all certificates having been renewed more consistent practice and improved appointed new chairs to some of the in the reporting period.
performance across our operations and networks to drive further benefits across through our service delivery.
In response to the growing need for processes are now defined and a information security assurance, a number programme of activity to integrate The Integrating Digital Solutions technical of our businesses are seeking management business-specific controls has started.
network has made significant achievements systems approval against the information Successful implementation of a fully during the year in delivering the security management systems approval integrated common BMS is a key objective multinational Building Information standard, ISO 27001: 2005.
Following the for the year ahead and will include Management BIM standard, enabling lead provided by our Group IS operations a refreshed and more intelligent approach more consistent practice for building and management consultants business to auditing across the organisation.
design, and in agreeing Atkins in the UK, asset management in the UK, multinational CAD standards, affording defence, aerospace and communications in a common approach to the creation and Bangalore and the Middle East operations management of technical drawings.
will be including information security We continue to deliver complex exemplar management as part of their improvement projects, details of which can be viewed on programmes for the coming year.
Supply chain We recognise that our supply chain plays a significant part in delivering successful projects.
Following the creation of our supply chain sustainability commitment in 2009 we have initially surveyed principal suppliers in the UK to understand how they manage important economic, social and environmental factors.
The results from these surveys will be used to target key areas and agree improvements with suppliers.
We plan to extend this activity to operations worldwide.
Our excellence in delivery target Aims targets Monitoring Indicator Baseline Implementation of Reporting to Group Launch of system Local business common business Executive sponsor elements management management system systems Progress summary The target was to embed our new supply chain sustainability commitment within individual business supply chains.
During the last year, the commitment has been introduced to suppliers and a baseline survey of suppliers has been conducted in the UK to establish current levels of sustainability commitment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Reviews Reviews 55 NCE ACE Outstanding Achievement Award for our community involvement.
com communityachievement Working with our communities As part of our involvement in the Gautrain We are passionate about contributing to project in South Africa, we nurtured the communities in which we operate and relationships with educational encouraging our people to join together establishments such as the African to make a difference where it counts.
Academy of Draughting, giving graduates and students an opportunity to gain We aim to support our people in their own experience with a large engineering communities around the world through consultancy.
As well as employing local charitable donations, fundraising, a number of its graduates, we also volunteering activities and sports and social provided scholarships and work experience events.
The network of house managers for several undergraduates.
continues to help coordinate and promote these activities through our offices.
In the Alexandra Township we supported A few examples of activities that took a haven for orphans affected by HIV and place around the world follow.
More supplied cleaning materials, clothing and information is available on our website food parcels.
Our staff also made regular www.
visits to the haven to help prepare meals for the children.
Our community In North America, employees in our Dallas, involvement in South Africa resulted in Texas office collaborated with their local us winning the NCE ACE Outstanding chapter of Rebuilding Together, a national Achievement Award in 2011. not-for-profit organisation dedicated to rebuilding homes for low-income In Bangalore employees volunteered to households, to paint and remodel a home design a rainwater harvesting system for in downtown Dallas.
The project supports the Bangalore Friend in Need Society and rebuilding of homes rather than new supported underprivileged children construction resulting in more sustainable through fundraising.
Employees in our Tampa, Florida office have volunteered to help save We continue to be actively engaged in an important bird sanctuary at Green Key, a range of educational initiatives from a small island located just south of the primary schools through to universities.
mouth of the Alafia River in Hillsborough Through our University Liaison Directors Bay.
The area has experienced erosion over ULDs programme, our engagement with time caused by changes in currents and universities has continued to grow and sand distribution.
The volunteers have develop with the objective of being helped to create a series of oyster bars regarded as an industrial partner of choice.
around the shore of the island.
Our ULDs have extended their relationships to 17 universities in the UK and are developing relationships internationally with ten in North America, two in the Asia Pacific region, two in Singapore and one in Dubai.
Our locations around the world supported the global Earth Hour campaign this year by ensuring that all lights were switched off for the event.
AIR number of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors.
HSE Labour Force Survey results are the three-year average results for occupations: administrative and secretarial for Office, science and technology for Engineering, and construction trades for Construction.
Figure 2: Tonnes of CO per employee from energy consumption 2 UK 1 North America Middle East and India 1.
The data and information Asia Pacific relating to PBSJ contained in the Corporate Responsibility Review cover the period Europe 1 October 2010 to 31 March 2011.
This is combined with data from our existing 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 operations in North America.
Air conditioning equipment Due to lease arrangements we only have operational responsibility for air conditioning equipment in a small number of UK properties.
We class all road travel as scope 1 emissions.
Figures highlighted have been verified in line with ISO 14064.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
