92 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Joint ventures In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, the Group accounts for joint ventures under the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of a joint ventures profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control.
Within the Consolidated Balance Sheet the investment is recorded at cost classified as a non-current asset and subsequently adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the movements in the joint ventures net assets post acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are stated in accordance with Group accounting policies.
Where joint ventures adopt accounting policies that are different from the Group, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
PPP PFI concessions Assets constructed by PPP PFI concession companies are classified in the accounts of the joint ventures as financial assets or intangible assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services.
To date, all of the Groups PPP PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long term receivable.
The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the accumulated value of the service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date.
The financial asset is measured at fair value.
Where it is classed as a loan receivable any movement in fair value is taken to the income statement.
Where it is classed as available for sale, any movement in fair value is taken to reserves.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the year including amounts not yet invoiced.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value amount.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date as measured by the contract costs incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Employee Benefit Trusts The accounts of the Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice the Groups advice on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees is normally accepted.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained loss earnings.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011
