|| Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Delivering sustainable excellence xii xii To succeed in our aim of delivering sustainable value to all of our stakeholders, we must balance economic, environmental and social considerations in managing our business.
We operate our business in a manner that is As our business strategy has progressed economically, socially and environmentally from primarily acquisition-led growth to sustainable over the long term.
We believe organic growth, we have rened our safety that excellence in sustainable development is management focus and priorities accordingly.
a source of competitive advantage, enhancing We make no distinction between the safety our corporate reputation and providing direct of our contractors and that of our employees.
business benets that are essential for We work collaboratively with our major delivering our strategy, including: contractors on each project, sharing experiences and skills to enhance each gaining access to new resources: others safety management systems.
maintaining a licence to operate from society We identify, reduce and, when possible, and enhancing the security of our operations: eliminate any significant environmental impact attracting and retaining the best people: from our mining, metallurgical and exploration activities.
We identify opportunities and accessing diverse and low-cost sources of undertake initiatives to protect and improve capital: and our operating landscapes.
The core of our identifying and managing new business management approach is to preserve and opportunities and risks.
restore the natural environments we operate in throughout our activities lifecycle.
We aim to operate a safe and healthy workplace.
We believe that every work-related Our activities and investments create lasting illness and injury is preventable and so our social and economic benets for the primary objective is to operate without communities and countries in which we operate fatalities and injuries.
that extend beyond jobs and taxes to include skills and enterprise development, improved infrastructure and enhanced access to education and health services, amongst others.
com We work in partnership with government, boost community development, enterprise xiii xiii NGOs, international donors and others to and job creation, health and education support the development of small-and initiatives and environmental schemes.
medium-sized businesses and alternative We set aside $109 million in 2011. income-generating opportunities.
At least 1% of our profits before tax is set aside every year to fund initiatives that benefit the communities in which we operate.
We support local culture and arts projects, programmes to Our economic contribution $33,877m Revenue $505m Economic value retained $16,831m Paym y y ent to suppliers $3,454m Empl p p oyee wages and benets $3,508m Payments to government $1,314m Payments to providers of cap pital $100m Corporate social involvement cash spend $8,165m Capital expenditure Total revenue
