com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 11 with the same management team We have retained almost entirely the same management team over the past 10 years, and Acquire 24.9% not a single member has gone to a competitor.
Lonmin stake Mick Davis Black Star Deeps Chief Executive Acquire option ATCOM in Zanaga Handlebar Hill Acquire Acquire Raglan Plus many further Jubilee Sphere Kikialik growth options Trevor Reid Santiago Zaldumbide Charlie Sartain Peter Freyberg 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chief Financial officer Executive Director Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Xstrata Copper Xstrata Coal Sout Eland MRM and Blakeeld Antamina Mt Isa Zinc South Wollombi 20 major approved Newlands Cerrejon Nickel Rim projects in construction South Mangoola Perseverance Goedgevonden Ian Pearce Peet Nienaber Benny Levene Thras Moraitis Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Chief Legal Counsel Executive General Xstrata Nickel Xstrata Alloys Manager, Group Strategy & Corporate Affairs Of course it is not just about size.
Our mantra from the start has been an community expectations but we approach those challenges with a spirit unerring focus on value and our shareholders have enjoyed total returns of openness and a genuine desire to nd mutually beneficial outcomes.
of some 370% since our IPO in March 2002, compared to 54% for the Throughout Xstratas evolution we have delivered avalue proposition for FTSE100 index overall.
We have spotted opportunities to create value our shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers, and for governments that others havent seen and we have captured those opportunities and and the communities in which our people live and work.
Value creation is enhanced them.
So we have bought well, integrated well, built well and we not an either or situation where you either make money for shareholders have also managed well.
Our operational management teams have improved or deliver value to society.
To be successful over the quality of their assets every year, nding new ways to reduce costs, the long-term, businesses must produce something valuable for society in enhance productivity and increase the useful life of our operations, often in aresponsible way and be able to demonstrate thevalue they deliver by incremental steps that together add up to a very powerful result.
We have providing jobs, skills, infrastructure, paying taxes and royalties to governments had some bumps along the way, but where we have made mistakes, we have and so on.
Equally, society needs aourishing business sector replete with learned from them, and the fact that we have created this world-class business executives who are bold and innovative but also prudent risk-takers, who are in such a short space of time indicates, I think, that our strategy has been motivated not only bythe financial reward that should go with success, but sound and our execution generally very good.
the support and validation they should get from society.
Ignoring either side We have grown over our first 10 years with almost entirely the same of this symbiotic relationship is unsustainable and short-sighted.
management team in my view that is both a measure of our success and an Over our short history, we have generated $182billion of revenues, of which important contributing factor to it.
Over 10 years, we have not lost a single we have spent some $93 billion or over half of the total with suppliers, member of our Executive Committee to a competitor, with only Peter Coates paid wages and salaries of $19 billion, paid taxes and royalties of some and Marc Gonsalves retiring in that period, and we have retained around 90% $16 billion, distributed $6 billion to providers of capital and contributed of the next level of senior management.
That cohesion and our shared focus $517 million on a voluntary basis to community initiatives.
We have invested on value optimisation and creation has allowed us to run a highly decentralised a further $30 billion in sustaining or expanding our operations and building business that nonetheless operates as one organisation, with acore set of modern, efficient new mines or metallurgical facilities or infrastructure.
The full economic benefit of our presence is of course much larger and extends to the many families, communities, local businesses and other Sustainability industries that indirectly benefit from our activities.
As we have grown as a company we have integrated an ethos of sustainability The 10 years of our history has culminated in a record year for Xstrata in 2011. into the way we work, running responsible and efficient operations and EBITDA rose to $11.6 billion and net earnings increased to $5.8 billion, in engaging constructively with communities.
We have challenges in some each case exceeding our previous record year in 2007.
Reecting our countries, as all mining companies do from governments seeking to change increased profitability, we raised the final dividend to 27 per share to bring the scal or regulatory regime to managing environmental impacts or high the full year dividend to 40, 60% higher than in 2010.
