Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
Principal accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents Taxation 131 Rehabilitation trust fund Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and shortCurrent tax term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the cash Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local taxable flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain bank overdrafts income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively enacted at the where the facility forms part of the working capital cash management balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax payable or recoverable in activities.
Government grants Deferred tax Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect of all Derivative financial instruments and hedging the grant will be received and all the attaching conditions will be complied temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and with.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to the their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except as indicated carrying amount of the related asset and are released to the income below: statement over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants that Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary are not associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match them differences, except: with the expense to which they relate.
where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction Provision is made for close down, restoration and environmental that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the financial period when the related environmental disturbance in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in occurs, based on the estimated future costs using information available at the subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted using a current market-based the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in interest probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable expense.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is future.
capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, and depreciated over Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary future production from the operations to which it relates.
differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to obligations, extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the Own shares legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs or lives of deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: provision resulting from changes in the estimated cash flows or discount rate where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary and the adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively.
difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in satisfying transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the environmental obligations are included within Other financial assets on the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: balance sheet.
and Employee entitlements in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, on an in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that remain unpaid assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the Interest-bearing loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date.
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using the utilised.
projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each currency and term to the liabilities.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable Inventories that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the In some of the Groups Australian operations, long service leave an deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the extent that an asset not employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is administered by an previously recognised fulfils the criteria for recognition, a deferred income tax independent fund.
The fund collects levies from employers throughout the asset is recorded.
industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long service leave payments to employees covered by the fund, it is Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are reimbursed for the majority of the payment.
To reflect the expected expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability reimbursement for future long service leave payments from the fund, a is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at receivable is recorded based on the present value of the future amounts the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are Other provisions recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and deferred constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
resources that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the provision is discounted to net Pensions and other post-retirement obligations present value using an appropriate current market-based pre-tax discount The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
