com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 5 Community social involvement We set aside at least 1% of our profits before tax every year to fund initiatives that benefit the communities in which we operate.
We support local culture and arts projects, programmes to boost community development, enterprise and job creation, health and education initiatives and environmental schemes.
We set aside $109 million in 2011, representing 1.3% of pre-tax profits, for these local projects.
Cash contribution by activity Q Health 7% Q Job creation and enterprise development 6% Q Education 22% Q Environment 3% Q Community development 59% Q Culture and art 4% Demand for commodities continued to grow as demand from China, India in the communities in which we operate, to encouraging students to enter and other emerging economies more than offset low growth in OECD mining-related elds of study and enhancing our recruitment and retention countries and average commodity prices rose over the prior year.
Meanwhile strategies for graduate recruits and experienced personnel.
New resources are generally located in more challenging regions lacking infrastructure and complex permitting and Shared value and a sustainable approach approval processes have extended the timescale and complexity involved in We understand the symbiotic relationship between our business and the realising new volumes.
broader society in which we operate and, as a company, we are proud of the role we play in creating shared value.
We produce commodities that are the In addition, industry-wide investment is leading to ination in the prices of basic building blocks upon which societies function and we make multi-billion major equipment, labour and other key inputs required to operate and dollar investments and contribute to national and local government revenues expand mining operations.
Together with declining production from existing in over 20 countries.
We employ around 70,000 people including contractors mines, supply growth is struggling to keep pace with rising demand, pointing and we play an integral role in communities around the world, with a to a positive medium term outlook for commodity prices, while also recognised focus on innovation in sustainability.
We consequently strive to highlighting the difficulties involved in delivering major growth projects.
work responsibly and openly, respecting the natural environment and working We are already responding to these difficulties.
Our operational teams are in partnership with communities and governments to generate benets for implementing a range of initiatives and innovations to control costs and society that outlast our operations from better access to education or secure our supply of equipment and key services, for example, by entering healthcare, to improved skills or useful infrastructure.
The key enabler to into long-term relationships with suppliers or contractors.
We will need to sustaining and expanding this vital societal role is the delivery of superior recruit more than 10,000 new permanent employees over the next three years value to our shareholders and in turn, we know that being successful in to meet our growth targets, the majority of whom will be skilled personnel these aspects of our business improves our ability to deliver shareholder in high demand from our competitors.
To respond to this challenge, our value over the long term.
initiatives range from supporting access to education and skills development 1 On a pre-exceptional basis
