com Notes to the financial statements continued 130 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Cash flow hedges Cash and cash equivalents Taxation Rehabilitation trust fund Cash flow hedges are hedges of an exposure to variability in cash flows that is Investments in the rehabilitation trust fund are measured at fair value based attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In accordance with or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss.
The IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised in the income statement.
effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa which receive cash contributions directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the Government grants eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost Derivative financial instruments and hedging of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its risks associated with If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously interest rate, foreign currency and commodity price fluctuations.
Such recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the hedging derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently roll-over, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do or loss.
not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit or loss for the Hedges of a net investment year.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are accounted for in a way The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument reference to current forward exchange rates and prices for contracts with relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: loss.
fair value hedges: Own shares cash flow hedges: or The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they are issued to hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfer to employees are documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge recognised in equity.
accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Program the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such shares.
Employee entitlements hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to be highly Interest-bearing loans and borrowings effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows are Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds received, net assessed on an ongoing basis to determine if they actually have been highly of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently they are measured at effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were amortised cost using the effective interest method.
recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for Inventories as follows: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or by using a first-in-first-out basis Fair value hedges and includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business including Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in the fair direct material and direct labour costs and an allocation of production value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit or loss.
The overheads, depreciation and amortisation and other costs, based on normal carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses production capacity, incurred in bringing each product to its present location attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative is remeasured at fair and condition.
Cost of inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains value, and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the materials.
Inventories are categorised as follows: adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over the Raw materials and consumables: materials, goods or supplies including Other provisions remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a energy sources to be either directly or indirectly consumed in the hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is production process: amortised to profit or loss.
Work in progress: items stored in an intermediate state that have not yet Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for Pensions and other post-retirement obligations passed through all the stages of production: and changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Finished goods: products and materials that have passed all stages of the The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging production process.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or the Group revokes the Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary course designation.
of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
