|| Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Contributing vital products to society viii viii We are a vital contributor to global society.
Our products are the building blocks for many of lifes essentials and we produce commodities in a way that cares for people and the environment, working in partnership with communities, governments and others to create a lasting positive legacy.
Product contribution baseload electricity generation and coking The natural resources we extract are coal is also an important ingredient in the at the heart of many vital products production of steel used to build cities, and services, from the building blocks railways and other vital infrastructure.
of new cities to everyday items like Demand for coal alongside a wide range of cutlery, and the high-precision metals energy sources including fossil fuels, nuclear used to produce mobile phones or and renewable continues to grow due to the jet engines.
rapid development of manufacturing industries in emerging economies and the needs of the Copper worlds growing population.
Coppers unique conductive qualities make it perfect for use in electrical wiring and heating.
Nickel It is used in a range of other applications, from Nickel-containing materials play a major role the air conditioning in our buildings to the in modern life and can be found in everything power lines that deliver electricity and the from cooking utensils, cutlery and saucepans, Sustainability connections in our computers and mobile to medical equipment, mobile phones, wind phones.
Copper is an effective anti-microbial turbines, computers, coins, and marine and renewable energy material: when cleaned regularly copper aerospace engineering.
hospitals surfaces destroy 99.9% of bacteria within two Households electric vehicles Around two-thirds of all nickel goes into the hours of exposure.
Copper is also extensively production of stainless steel.
The remainder electricity used in green technologies, such as solar cells is used for applications including super-alloys, plumbing and electric vehicles.
appliances Coal Zinc Coal is a plentiful source of energy.
Thermal An essential mineral for the human immune energy coal provides a reliable fuel for system, zinc is also used to protect steel used in vehicles, infrastructure and consumer white goods.
Around half of all zinc is used to galvanise steel, an environmentally friendly way of protecting against corrosion.
Zinc is also used to make die-cast alloys, brass and zinc oxides COPPER and chemicals.
Lead-acid batteries used in cars, motorcycles and e-bikes account for around 80% of total lead consumption.
Ferrochrome Ferrochrome has anti-corrosive properties and around 80% of all ferrochrome goes into the production of stainless steel, which is used in a range of products from cutlery to cars.
||| Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com ix ix ix Steel Sp S ec cia iali lity ty We We W ll ll llb b bein n ng Stainle ess steel manufacture st steells prod duction huma an n hea alth increased d crop op y yie ield lds s je j t en engin fines for re esistance Electricity Stainless mobile le le d dev evice es again nst corr rrosion To To To g gal a vanise comp put uters production st te eel st s stee eel operating theatres to o p pro ro o otect fridges a ag gaiinstt tt corrosion cutlery FERR R R RO COAL NICKEL Z ZIIIN N N NC CHR ROME
