Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility: supporting sustainable growth We recognise that committing time and resources to the proper management ofnonfinancial matters as well as financial performance is ofcritical importance tosustaining the long-term value and prospects of Babcock andto achieving our strategic goals.
The acquisition of VT and itsintegration into the Babcock Group has been afurther opportunity to review how we manage and evaluate our performance in areas including customer relations, human resources, health, safety and the environment.
In the sections below, we look at our current principal areas of focus.
Other parts of this Annual report also touch on these areas, especially in our Operating reviews and the section Factors that could affect the business.
Strengthening customer relationships Strengthening Because of the special profiles of many of our customers and customer thelength ofmany of our contracts, a partnering approach relationships whichtruly understands customer needs and the constraints and pressuresonthem is vital.
Collaborative working is atthe heart ofBabcocks business model helping us to address and often find innovative responses to the challenges our customers face and tofulfiltheir objectives.
Ensuring safety We have a well-embedded performance review system with theMoD, which isinits seventh year and have established customer survey andfeedback arrangements with our other major clients.
We commit significant time and effort to monitoring, evaluating and improving our relationships with customers.
Customer satisfaction forms a key part of the non-financial objectives set in our senior managements annual bonus targets.
Developing and sustainingtalent Supply chain engagement The partnering approach we take in our relationships with our customers is also applied, where appropriate, to our supply chain.
Working collaboratively with our suppliers will enable us better to support the longer term requirements of our customers.
An example of our proactive approach to supply chain management is our Running an involvement in the SC21 supply chains for the 21st century programme.
environmentally The programme is hosted by A|D|S and Babcock sits on ef cientbusiness SC21sSteering and Primes Working Groups.
Oursupply chain management activity also extends to areas such as integrated business planning, joint riskand opportunity management and the hosting andfacilitating ofsupply network engagement events.
Our commitment togovernance and itsrole in sustaining long-term value 34 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Marine and Technology Intervention training: designed to encourage and support employees toadopt a proactive role in ensuring the safety of colleagues as well as their own, the training course is delivered atDevonport Royal Dockyard using professional actors recreating various scenes to demonstrate how to give and receive interventions.
This fresh and interactive approach to safety has been positively received by employees and helps strengthen the safety culture.
Ensuring safety Maintaining an excellent safety record has fora long time been a Defence and Security major area of sustained attention across the Group.
Health and safety Dont Walk By campaign: An is a core value for Babcock: senior management bonuses are at risk integrated safety campaign that has driven a dramatic turnaround in if performance is unsatisfactory.
thesafety culture and performance Building on the work started with the 2008 09 safety cultural attheRoyal School of Military Engineering.
This has led to the rolling assessment, andfollowing the acquisition of VT, our health and safety accident frequency rate falling from priority has been refreshed and re-emphasised, and the governance 6.0 12month to Mar 10 to 2.86 structure relating to health andsafety management has been 11months to Feb 11 with the reviewed and clarified: biggestimprovement in thenumbers ofinjuriesto soldiers when in the The Group Safety Leadership Team SLT : composed of the training environment.
ChiefExecutive and the Groups senior management team, the SLT isresponsiblefor developing, agreeing and reviewing the Groups strategic approach tosafety and providing leadership on safety across the Group.
Support Services The Corporate Safety Steering Group CSSG : composed of the Chief Safe and Unsafe Acts SUSA campaign: Executive and healthand safety professionals from all four divisions, the primary aim of our Infrastructure the CSSGreviews performance and trends, assesses the impact businesss SUSA campaign is to train oflegislative changes, acts on the output of the SLT and shares employees to understand the bestpractice.
behavioural side of safety and encourage them to take responsibility Divisional Safety Leadership Teams and Safety Steering Groups for their own and colleagues safety byimproving communication through ensurethat the Group health and safety policy, strategy and initiatives safety conversations.
Working together are relayed and implemented within the businesses.
with the Customer and supply chain partners, the accident frequency rate The annual Group Safety Conference promotes the Group safety vision, has fallen by 61% since the launch thesharing of best practice and rewards notable achievements.
Priority continues to be given to addressing behavioural and cultural attitudes underlying unsafe acts, as can be seen from the case studies in this section.
This year has also seen aparticular focus at Group International anddivisional levelon the interaction between safety and leadership, Safety Through Empowerment of especially the role of first line management, with a number of People STEP programme: building initiatives andtraining programmes focusing on this.
onthe success of the training delivered as part of the STEP programme, Let After their successful launch last year, Babcocks annual Safety Awards People Talk sessions are used at sites are in their second year and have seen an increase in the number tofollow up on the STEP training.
Afurther module has been added to ofnominations coming up from business units, with a new award the programme since February 2010: category being added specifically to recognise and reward our the PersonalMotivators module apprentices for safe behaviours.
encourages employees to re ect on why it is important tothem from a personal perspective to makethe right safety decision.
35 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility: supporting sustainable growth continued Performance Developing and sustaining talent As a result of the sustained effort committed to the continual We understand the importance of having the right people with the improvement of health and safety, year-on-year performance has right skills now and in the future to deliver the exceptional service improved, as reflected by the fall of just over 20% in both our total andintegrated engineering and technical expertise which is the injuries rate and RIDDOR rate.
bedrock of our long-term relationships with our customers.
Todeliverthat service and expertise, we are continually improving We are also increasing our focus on near-miss incidents as an integral ourcomprehensive talent management system, from apprentices part of preventing accidents and injuries.
Work is currently under way andgraduates all the way up to senior management.
to improve the reporting of the severity of near-misses to give extra depth tothe data being analysed and assist management in focusing We firmly believe that recruitment, training and development, and on addressing areas which could lead to serious accidents before succession planning are best managed primarily atthe local level to theyhappen.
ensure maximum responsiveness to local circumstances, and business unit and customer needs.
However, key strategic aspects are overseen 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 or co-ordinated at aGroup level to ensure consistency of approach, Total Number of Injuries 1636 2781 2530 1968 the identification of strategic threats and opportunities and to open up awider range of opportunities for our employees: RIDDOR Fatalities 0120 Succession planning Major injuries 29 42 28 21 Talent management Over-three-day injuries 86 148 164 130 Graduates and apprentices RIDDOR totals 115 191 194 151 All these areas were reviewed and refreshed following the acquisition Total injuries rate per 100,000 hours worked of VT. 3ULRU HDUV WR UHVWDWHG WR UHHFW 97 DFTXLVLWLRQ Talent management This year has seen the formalisation of the Babcock Academy LearningFramework, ledbyour Group Director of Organisation andDevelopment.
It aims to strengthen cohesionbetween Babcocks strategic needs and organisational talent development.
Thishas involved adding to the Babcock Academy an Emerging 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 LeadersDevelopment programme forhigh performing graduates and 3.67 3.87 4.15 2.86 junior managers.
The Academy has been run in conjunction with Strathclyde University since 2005.
We are also improving the tools we RIDDOR rate per 100,000 hours worked useto ensure that we take full advantage of the many opportunities 3ULRU HDUV WR UHVWDWHG WR UHHFW 97 DFTXLVLWLRQ that abusiness the size of Babcock can provide in attracting, developing and retaining the right talent.
Graduates and apprentices Our graduate and apprenticeship programmes are made up of tailored schemes designed to meet the specific skills and business requirements of each business unit.
With 75 graduates recruited 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 intheyearto 31 March 2011 2010: 101, therearecurrently 0.28 0.27 0.28 0.22 228graduates on the graduateprogramme, 80% of whom are inengineering disciplines.
At the date of this report, we expect torecruit 79 graduates for the 2011 12 intake.
We currently have 611 apprentices across theGroup 2010: 572, ofwhom 89 were recruited during the year to 31 March 2011 2010:170. Business requirements this year were such thatfewerapprentices were required.
We remain committed toprovidingasmany apprenticeship opportunities as our business requirements justify.
36 International Support Services Defence DQG 6HFXULW 0DULQH DQG Technology Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Graduates Running an environmentally 1 Marine and Technology 69% ef cientbusiness 2 Defence and Security 4% A significant amount of work is ongoing to deliver long-term 4 3 Support Services 25% 1 efficiencies both within Babcock and for our customers in a way 4 Group 2% thatismindful of environmental impacts.
3 The environment and carbon emissions 2 Environment KPI % Apprentices 1 Marine and Technology 63% 2 Defence and Security 2% 3 Support Services 32% 4 1 4 International 3% 3 80 80 20 100 2 20 20 80 Best practice &HUWLHG Best practice refers to our environmental management controls Diversity DW VLWHV QRW HW, 62 FHUWLHG Ensuring that we have access to the widest pool of talent available isabusiness imperative and, as such, diversity is an integralpart of All of our businesses are either ISO 14001 certified or follow best ourtalent management system.
Our diversity initiative, All together environmental practice.
Following the acquisition of VT, wehave different, sends a clear message that our focus is on getting the reviewed the environmental management systems in place across the rightskills in the right job regardless of age, race, colour, ethnic origin, Group and one of our environmental targets isto achieve ISO 14001 gender, marital status, religious beliefs, sexual orientation or disability.
certification across all divisions and business units by the end of2012.
During the year, we obtained the Carbon Trust Standard and we Community haveinstalled automatic meters wherever possible, going beyond theminimum required to obtain the Standard.
As a result, we are In many places, we are the largest employer inthe region.
We seek confident that we will be well positioned in the performance league toengage with the communities around our sites and operations table due to be published by the Environment Agency in autumn andto provide opportunities for employees toassist with local 2011 under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Within the framework initiatives and support localcharities that are important to them.
of ourGroup environmental and carbon management policies, Wehave Group-wide guidelines setting out our approach to charitable business units set their own more detailed carbon policies covering donations, ourcommitment to the communities in which weoperate allaspects of their business, with clearlinks to objectives to achieve and the broader interests of our customers.
As well as ensuring carbon emissions reductions.
financial donations are appropriately targeted, they also encourage active engagement with the communities in which we operate through localcommunity support programmes.
At a Group level, we have continued to provide corporate sponsorship for the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association SSAFA, the forces charity providing support to service families in timesof need.
Across the Group, our donations to charitable causes during the year amounted to 236,000 2010: 197,000.
37 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility: supporting sustainable growth continued Babcock obtained the Carbon Trust Standard with a high score of Our commitment to governance and its 82.5%.
TheStandard was obtained on the basis of data for the period role in sustaining long-term value 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010 covering emissions fromelectricity and gas consumption, on-site energy consumption and fuel consumption Health and safety, employee and customer risks are identified and in vehicles owned by Babcock.
Over that period, Babcock achieved integrated into our risk management system overseen by the Audit anabsolute reduction in carbon emissions of 1.8% and a relative and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board.
Wherearisk is identified, reduction of 7.2%.
the divisional Chief Executives take responsibility for mitigation steps, bringing in the experience of relevant operational teams within 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 thebusiness whererequired.
Absolute footprint 1 tCO e 131,510.2 125,590.0 126,287.0 2 Relative benchmark Whistleblowing 2 tCO e m turnover 84.5 68.4 71.0 2 We have confidential whistleblower hotlines provided by 1 Adjusted footprint following the acquisition of UKAEA in September2009.
independent third parties who promptly report messages received 2 Benchmark selected due to multi-disciplinary nature of the services provided viathe service to central Group senior management.
remain anonymous if they wish.
The hotlines are intended for use by In line with the requirements of the Carbon Trust Standard, our target employees to report concerns that they feelunable to raise with line is to reduce our carbon footprint by at least 2.5% year-on-year.
management or, where they have raised matters, but they arenot satisfied with the response about financial irregularities, health and The MoDs Sustainable Procurement Flexible Framework safety, environmental harm or failure to comply with legal obligations.
Every new employee who joins Babcock is made aware of the We signed the Sustainable Procurement Charter jointly with the MoD existence of the hotlines as part of their induction: details of the in 2008 and have since been implementing our action planto achieve hotlines are advertised at operating sites.
The acquisition ofVT was the requirements of the MoDs Sustainable Procurement Flexible used as an opportunity to refresh communication about the hotlines Framework.
We have committed to reaching Level 3 of the Framework in July2010 when all employees across the Group received an by 2012, which we are on track toachieve.
We are also using the same information pack describing thenewly enlarged Group and reminding action plan developed to meet the requirements of the Framework to them ofthe hotlines.
promote the sustainable procurement agenda throughout the Babcock Group and to disseminate it through oursupply chain.
Ethical conduct We are committed to the highest ethical standards and operate astrict ethical policy, which divisional Chief Executives are responsible for implementing and reporting on annually.
The policy covers and Occupant provides guidance on areas such as conflict of interest: unlawful and Behaviour unethical acts: avoiding bribery and corruption: the use of commercial Energy Managers or marketing agents especially in overseas territories : and giving andreceiving gifts and hospitality.
Procedures across the Group have been reviewed in light of the Bribery Act.
Energy Bureau Building Energy Equipment Conservation BEMS Enegry Specialist Advisors Babcock has developed a Strategic Energy Management Plan SEMP with the MoD.
The SEMP provides an intelligent energy monitoring system and the optimisation of building controls for the client.
Currently Babcock is delivering the SEMP on 21 MoD sites within the South West.
The initiative approach to energy management has been recognised by the MoD as best practice and, together, we are looking to roll out the delivery across the MoD estate.
