Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 55 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Overview Creating a successful and sustainable business requires more than The Groups CR agenda covers the issues that have been identified financial results.
The Group places great importance not just on as having the most potential to affect the long-term sustainability of what we do, but how we do it.
Responsible business is embedded theGroup, by directly impacting the Groups reputation or ability within the Groups strategy.
The Group has four priorities, outlined below, that are material to its long-term performance, and which are supplemented The Corporate Responsibility CR objectives support the Group in at a local level by CR programmes to address specific local issues progressing towards recognised leading positions in ethics and see pages 24 to 43. safety.
The Group also has programmes in place to progress diversity and inclusion, and environmental sustainability.
The four corporate responsibility priorities are addressed by... Ethics Safety... continuing to engage... embedding a safety first employees and develop the approach to the Groups Groups ethics programme in operations so that all employees 1,011 11% support of Responsible understand the importance of a 2011 employee enquiries reduction in Lost Work Day Behaviour.
to Ethics Helpline Case Rate Highlights include: Highlights include: Continued to develop and Year-on-year improvement in evolve the Groups business the Lost Work Day Case Rate conduct programme Good progress made in Woolf Committee embedding safety awareness implementation programme For more information and culture across the Group For more information 56 57 on ethics on safety completed Diversity and inclusion Environmental sustainability... developing a diverse and... managing the operational inclusive environment which efficiency of the Groups sites so encourages innovation and 25% that its environmental impact is 6% enhances productivity by reduced.
of the BAE Systems Board reduction in CO emissions 2 helpingto recruit and retain Highlights include: are women at 31 December in 2010 thebest people.
2011 Reduction targets agreed for Highlights include: energy, waste and water Executive Committee agreed Progress achieved against 1.286 actions on growing the Environmental Sustainability female leadership pipeline million tonnes of CO 2 Maturity Matrix emissions in 2010 The Chief Executives leadership team participated in Inclusive Leadership For more information on For more information on 58 59 Unconscious Bias training diversity and inclusion environmental sustainability In addition to the four priorities above, the Group continues to Over 4m support the communities in which it operates.
total fundraising in 2011 Highlights include: Over 1.4m raised for armed forces charities For more information on the Groups Over 1m raised to support Science, Technology, Engineering and community programme: Mathematics STEM agenda www.
com  See assurance statement on www.
com  56 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Ethics In 2007, the Board set up the Woolf Committee, which was asked to 2011 objectives examine the ethical principles and practices underlying the Groups business, and identify areas for further improvement that the Group Implementation of the Groups programme to address the Woolf should address in order to be recognised as a global leader in ethical recommendations to be complete by May 2011 and confirmed business conduct.
Following the publication of the Committees report through external assurance at the end of 2011. in 2008, the Group initiated an extensive three-year programme to address the 23 recommendations of the Committee.
Implementation Progress of that programme was completed in May 2011.
The Group remains The implementation programme to address the 23 committed to a programme of continuous improvement to position recommendations of the Woolf Committee was completed in May BAE Systems in the vanguard of best practice in this regard.
Deloitte has assured BAE Systems statements on Following the Woolf implementation programme, the Ethical Progress against Recommendations on the Groups website.
Leadership Group ELG independently reviewed the Groups progress and concluded that BAE Systems has a solid business conduct 2012 objectives programme that includes many best practice elements.
ELG identified Continue to improve and evolve the Groups business conduct some opportunities for improvement and these have been programme.
incorporated into the Groups ongoing business conduct programme to ensure continuous improvement.
Ethics programme Improving industry standards The Group remains committed to achieving and sustaining a BAE Systems continues to play an important role in helping to leadership role in business conduct.
raisestandards of ethical conduct, sharing what it has learnt and The Groups global Code of Conduct sets out clear expectations for encouraging best practice.
The Group is working with other major employees, and regular training on the Code and ethical standards is companies, and the UK, European and US trade associations for the helping it to embed a culture of responsible business conduct Aerospace and Defence industry, and is a Task Force member of the throughout the businesses.
It includes practical guidance to help International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct.
The Group played a employees deal with ethical issues and where to go for advice or to key role in the creation of Global Principles of Business Ethics for the report concerns, including the Ethics Helpline.
The Group, as part of the UK defence industry, is supporting calls were made to the helpline.
the development of the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty.
The Group has continued to strengthen its policies and processes to Suppliers ensure employees have the clear guidance they need to make ethical Supplier management is important to the Group as it depends on its choices and understand the due diligence required in the Groups suppliers to help to deliver the products and systems its customers business decisions.
The Code and key policies on ethical conduct are need, on time and to the quality they expect.
Poor performance or integrated into the processes that govern all aspects of the Groups unethical conduct by a supplier could affect the Groups reputation or day-to-day business.
its ability to operate effectively.
Any employee found to be in breach of the Code, or any other relevant The Group expects its suppliers to comply with local legislation, and to policies, is subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
In 2011, 298 haveand meet equivalent standards on issues such as ethical employees were dismissed for reasons relating to breaches of the conduct, health and safety, product safety, the environment, civil Groups standards and policies, primarily for personnel and work liberties and human rights.
The Group also expects them to apply place issues.
these standards in their own supply chains, and assesses compliance during the supplier selection process and at regular project reviews.
Employee enquiries to 2011 employee enquiries to Ethics Helpline Dismissals for reasons relating to unethical behaviour Ethics Helpline 1,200 500 600 1,011 1,000 500 485 400 396 870 800 400 310 734 300 355 600 300 297 298 260 507 200 400 200 327 128 100 200 100 57 32 27 21 16 13 5 4 0 0 2 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Q Labour expenses practices Q Quality or manufacturing issues Q Company ethical practices Q Security and misuse of assets All concerns raised with the Ethics If an employee is found to be in breach Q Conflicts of interest Q Contract compliance Helpline were reviewed and reported of the Groups Code of Conduct or any Q Employee relations and conduct Q Management practices either to the Ethics Review Committee other relevant policies, appropriate Q International business issues Q Environmental, Health and Safety or, in BAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics disciplinary action, which may include Q Procurement, trade and marketing Q Guidance and advice Executive Oversight Committee.
See assurance statement on www.
com  Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 57 Safety falls.
Employees providing maintenance and support services at 2011 objectives customers sites, including military bases in combat zones, face significant safety risks.
Continue to progress towards a world class level of safety performance: The Group uses a five-level Safety Maturity Matrix to help its businesses around the world work towards consistently high demonstrate continued progress towards Safety Maturity Matrix standards and to improve their performance.
Ultimately, the Group SMM Level 5.
SMMclarification: wants to be among the leading companies for safety performance.
Level 5 achievement: All sites at Level 4 in 2009 to achieve Over the past three years, there has been a downward trend in days Level 5 by the end of 2011: lost to work-related injuries, which demonstrates an improvement in safety performance and reflects the efforts made to embed a safety b.
Level 5 progress: All sites at Level 4 at the end of 2010 to first approach across the Group.
However, during 2011, there was an demonstrate progress to achieve Level 5 by the end of 2012: increase in the number of major injuries.
The Group considers any c. Level 4 achievement: All remaining sites to achieve Level 4 by increase in major injuries a cause for concern and will focus on the the end of 2012. root causes during 2012. continue to demonstrate year-on-year improvement in the Product safety LostWork Day Case Rate.
It is critical that the Groups products do what they are designed for without unacceptable harm to any third parties or the people using Progress them.
No complex and innovative product, whether used in defence or civilian markets or both, is without risk so it is essential that the Group Sites continued to progress against the SMM and there was a achieves an appropriate balance between the benefits they provide to year-on-year improvement in the Lost Work Day Case Rate.
customers and the risks associated with their use.
2012 objectives The Group works with its customers to agree the level of safety that is required and the risks that are acceptable, and works to ensure that it Businesses to demonstrate improvement against 2011 baseline delivers products that meet that level.
The Group will not agree to a performance on recordable accidents.
level of safety that is unethical or unlawful.
Continue to progress against the SMM.
The Groups Product Safety Policy and practices are built on a set of product safety principles that apply throughout a products life from Employee safety concept and manufacturing through to use and disposal.
The safety of The safety and well-being of the Groups employees, and those who the Groups products relies on the application of its safety policies work on its sites, is a key priority.
The goal is to create a safety first and processes, and on the behaviours and attitudes of the employees approach where employees take responsibility for their own safety working on them.
The Groups policies require accountability to be and the safety of those around them, as well as the people using the established to ensure that the products the Group delivers meet both products and services they deliver.
The Group gives them the training design requirements and agreed levels of safety.
Across the Groups and tools to help them do this.
global businesses, there are a number of working groups that ensure The businesses manage a wide range of safety risks.
For a consistent approach to product safety by sharing ideas and best manufacturing employees, these include working at height, operating practice.
heavy equipment and dealing with hazardous, explosive or nuclear materials.
In offices, risks include ergonomics, and slips, trips and Lost Work Day Case Rate Major injuries recorded 2011 causes of major injuries recorded % of total causes per 100,000 employees 1,000 100 22 2 54 10 800 80 789 3 77 5 69 600 60 59 562 554 53 44 22 400 40 389 346 Q Slips, trips or falls on the same level 200 20 Q Fall from height Q Injured while handling, lifting or carrying Q Contact with moving machinery 0 0 Q Struck by moving, including flying 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 falling, object Q Strike against something fixed The Lost Work Day Case Rate The increase in 2011 reflects a change or stationary decreased by 11% in line with the in profile of operational facilities and Q Trapped by something collapsing Groups objective to continue to activities, but the Group considers any overturning demonstrate year-on-year increase in major injuries a cause for Q Exposure to, or contact with, improvement in safety performance.
concern and will focus on root causes a harmful substance during 2012.
com  58 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion helps the Group create a positive employment 2011 objectives experience and to be known as an employer of choice.
Continue to utilise the global Diversity & Inclusion Maturity Matrix At the end of 2011, 25% and 17% of Board and Executive Committee D&IMM to achieve an improved level of performance for 2011. members, respectively, were female.
Globally, 19% of the Groups workforce are women.
Progress Consistent with the Groups commitment to improve the diversity of its The Executive Committee has agreed a programme to improve workforce, the Executive Committee has approved the following gender diversity in leadership positions.
At 31 December 2011, actions to grow the female talent pipeline at senior executive levels 25% of the Board are women.
and to support the achievement of the aspirational target of 25% female membership of the Executive Committee: 2012 objectives Fostering a culture of inclusion: Demonstrate continued progress against the D&IMM and by investing in inclusive leadership education: and establish milestones targets to underpin delivery of the stated establishing a flexible work culture.
Accelerating the development of high potential women: The Group is committed to maintaining a work environment in which through mentoring by Executive Committee members: and adiverse range of talented people work together to improve business increasing participation in global high potential programmes.
To support this commitment, the Group adopted a diversity and inclusion strategy in Hiring and selecting the top performing diverse talent: 2010, with businesses setting milestones to develop a diverse and by ensuring leadership jobs have diverse candidate lists.
Businesses monitor their progress Measuring performance: against the Groups five-level D&IMM.
This approach reflects each through each business developing aspirational targets to increase businesss starting point and cultural context see pages 24 to 43. significantly gender diversity in leadership ranks.
The strategy will help the Group to build a workforce that more closely reflects the diversity of the local population in each of the Groups The Group has also taken additional actions to increase the markets and will underpin the future sustainability of the business.
diversityof its workforce, including the development of a Board Diversity Charter and the revision of the Nomination Committees A diverse workforce, with employees drawn from all backgrounds, Termsof Reference.
encourages innovation, improves productivity and brings the Group closer to its customers.
Programmes are also in place to address ethnic diversity.
This is undertaken at a business level to help the Group to build a workforce The Group focuses on attracting and retaining talented people from that more closely reflects the diversity of the local population in each diverse backgrounds, and helping them to develop their skills and of the Groups markets.
build a successful career with BAE Systems.
The Group aims to create an inclusive environment where a diverse workforcecan flourish, and where every one of its employees is valued and hasthe opportunity to fulfil their potential and contribute to the Groups business success.
During 2011, the Group continued to embed a diversity and inclusion strategy to support the recruitment, engagement and retention of talented Q Male employees from all backgrounds.
Q Female See assurance statement on www.
com  Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence Platforms & Services US Platforms & Services UK Platforms & Services International Total Group performance review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 59 Environmental sustainability 2011 objectives HOW THE GROUP MEASURES PROGRESS IN  Develop and launch an environmental sustainability programme: agree and implement an Environmental Sustainability Maturity To help businesses across the Group progress the CR agenda, and Matrix ESMM.
improve performance in diversity and inclusion, safety, and environmental sustainability, the Group has introduced maturity businesses to confirm a 2010 baseline, and set 2011 targets for matrices for each area.
Each matrix provides a road map of how to energy, waste and water.
improve performance across each area to help drive consistent standards across the Group and deliver against the Groups CR Progress objectives.
Businesses have put in place plans to progress against the Each matrix includes clearly defined levels that each business needs ESMM, and have also set 2012 reduction targets for energy, waste to aspire to or meet via targets over a set period of time.
Safety a five-level matrix aimed at embedding a proactive approach 2012 objectives to safety across the Group, so that safety is a precondition of how employees work.
Continued progression against the ESMM businesses to meet 2012 targets for energy, waste and water.
Diversity and inclusion the five-level matrix aims to embed diversity and inclusion into day-to-day activities to enhance the Groups competitive edge.
At an operational level, the matrix reflects each Operational environment businesss start point and cultural context.
The goal is to reduce the environmental impact of the Groups operations and products by driving efficiencies in the management of Environment a four-level matrix aimed at improving environmental energy, waste and water.
performance across the Group, resulting in a sustainable approach to how the Group does business.
The Group has developed an environmental sustainability programme, which includes an Environmental Sustainability Maturity Matrix ESMM that provides a road map for the businesses to improve their DELOITTE ASSURANCE STATEMENT environmental performance.
It covers impacts throughout the product lifecycle from supply to manufacturing and end use.
Each business This year, Deloitte has assured the following performance indicators: has conducted a self-assessment against the matrix to determine Ethics employee enquiries to Ethics Helpline total number and their current position and set targets for where they would like to be in number by category and dismissals for reasons relating to unethical each area.
behaviour: The ESMM is supported by reduction targets in energy, waste and Safety Lost Work Day Case Rate and the number of major injuries water.
During 2011, each business baselined its energy, waste and recorded: water use, and put in place reduction targets for each to be achieved during 2012.
Diversity and inclusion employees split by gender and age: and Product environment Community total Company Giving and Charity Challenge donations.
Environmental considerations are taken into account throughout a Deloitte has provided limited assurance on performance indicators products lifecycle via the Lifecycle Management process, including marked with a and reasonable assurance on performance reducing the environmental impacts of the Groups products during indicators marked with a. research and development, minimising waste materials during manufacturing, and helping to reduce product impacts when being To see Deloittes assurance statement go to: used, upgraded anddisposed.
com  The Group works with suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of the products and services they supply by, for example, using resources more efficiently and reducing waste.
This helps to reduce costs and cut the Groups environmental footprint and that of its products.
To support this, the Group has introduced a Sustainable Procurement handbook to help purchasing teams to understand and embed environmental standards into the supplier management process.
The Group works with customers to help them to understand the environmental impacts of products and supports them on their environmental programmes.
For example, the Group works with the UK Ministry of Defence on their Sustainable Procurement Strategy.
For more information on the Groups corporate responsibility performance: www.
com  CR Committee statements Deloitte assurance statement How the Group manages CR More information on the maturity matrices Support for charities and local communities
