our business performance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy At the heart of Capcos business activities We value the feedback received from our stakeholders on environmental and community issues and these views influence the design of our future strategy.
The opinions of our employees are taken into consideration when determining the direction of our human resources strategy.
gOvernance The CR Committee, which is chaired by Ian Henderson, ensures that CR initiatives are firmly aligned with corporate strategy.
The implementation of strategy is driven by the CR Executive Committee, which is chaired by HR and CR Director, Jill Pett.
Capco also has aCharity Committee, chaired by Ian Durant.
Capcos Business Code of Practice and company policies set out long-term commitments to high standards of social, ethical and environmental practices.
They also frame the CR annual objectives which areset and reviewed every year.
Ian Henderson, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee prOgress In last years Annual Report we set out our CRobjectives for 2011 and we are pleased that we have made progress against our goals.
I am satisfied with the progress we have made We have set ourselves stretching aims fortheyear ahead that will take our CR to promote sustainable place-making which enhances strategy forward into the next phase of ourdevelopment.
the environment and with the benefits our education In this section we report on progress made programme provides to young people.
intrOductiOn The two threads of Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility is at the heart of that run through our business are Capcos business activities, central to our role environment and community.
These broad as a place-maker and to our working practices.
themes have a material impact on the areas where our assets are based.
We are a young company and as we grow we aim to build a reputation for being responsible With regard to our environmental strategy, and ethical in all aspects of our business.
Many anexample of our innovation is the recently of the goals we have set have been met and launched Carbon Voyage Scheme at EC&O I am satisfied with the progress we have made Venues.
This provides solutions for freight key in promoting sustainable place-making and and delegate travel aimed at reducing costs with the benefits our education programme and carbon emissions.
Some progress provides to young people.
Of particular note in our community strategy is the Covent Garden Business Enterprise Satisfactory progress challenge in which a total of 550 young people worked to design a product that could be sold in the Apple Market and developed their Good progress business skills in the process.
Ian Henderson CBE Chairman of the Corporate  29 February 2012 44 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements commitment made last year progress what we achieved in 2011 2012 objective corporate cr strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work To develop and implement CR initiatives aligned to corporate strategy by the Board Continue to build engagement CR Policy across the CR Committee.
with the CR agenda across Group, review every three theGroup.
CR strategy is driven by the CR Executive Committee.
years and seek full commitment from all members of staff.
To identify and manage CR-related risks are included in the Capco risk register and Continue to manage potential CR-related risks through reviewed externally by Environ annually.
risks with care, escalating concerns aformal and externally promptly where appropriate.
Further information on the risk management process is set evaluated annual review.
out in the section beginning on page 14.
Any areas of concern are escalated to the Board.
To maintain and enhance EC&O Venues was successfully recertified to the BS 8901 Participate in the 2012 Carbon accreditations to CR Sustainable Event Management System and has chaired the Disclosure Project index.
Association of Event Venues Sustainability Group which Measure our performance encourages best practice in the global events industry.
usingthe Global Reporting Capcos accreditation in the FTSE4GOOD Index was Initiative GRI.
retained with an 80 per cent rating.
Maintain membership of FTSE4GOOD and consider membership of another leadingindex.
To implement sponsorship This year the Group donated 118,217 to a number of Support initiatives in communities and charitable objectives charities, particularly those that benefit young people.
We particularly that support the Organisations that have benefited include Bedhead FC Guy wish to help organisations that communities in which the Mascolo Football Charity, Stoll formerly Sir Oswald Stoll support the well-being and Group invests, focusing on Foundation and Interact Reading Service.
We continued development of young people projects designed to assist our partnership with the Duke of Edinburgh Award inLondon with an emphasis on in the development of Scheme and will be working with the Scheme to extend homelessness, education, health young people.
ourwork with young people in London.
We will participate in and support appropriate charities The EC&O Charitable Trust builds close relationships linked to the property industry withEC&Os immediate community and celebrates and we will continue our its10thanniversary this year.
To date, it has given long-standing involvement with approximately 200,000 to charitable causes within the associations that help injured London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham and in service personnel.
theRoyal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based To develop and refresh We have established an Environmental Committee Produce a carbon footprint map Capcos Environmental whichincludes participants from across the business and for Capco.
Policy and Guide in isdeveloping our environmental policy and ensuring Monitor and assess the success of support of the evolution consistency of implementation across the Group.
EC&O Venues participation in the of the business.
EC&O Venues has its own sustainability policy, which is Carbon Voyage scheme.
promoted to its customers and subject to regular review.
This can be viewed on the website at www.
In 2011, EC&O Venues launched the first sustainable travelsystem of its kind worldwide in association with CarbonVoyage.
com 45 our business performance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy CONTINuED commitment made last year progress what we achieved in 2011 2012 objective To support and comply Our 2011 data has been approved as compliant.
Continue to ensure our compliance with the requirements of and manage our participation in the Carbon Reduction the CRC scheme.
Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Achieve a 5 per cent We achieved a reduction of 3 per cent against our target: Aim for a 5 per cent reduction reduction in carbon this equated to a reduction in consumption of 8.2 per cent inconsumption on a like-for-like emissions for 2011. in terms of KW hours.
basis against 2011 figures as abenchmark.
Review the existing Energy Performance Certificates for Covent Garden to assess existing performance levels and identify areas of concern.
undertake a pilot study at Covent Garden to prepare Display Energy Certificates for several buildings and review the findings.
Identify and maximise At Covent Garden we appointed a new refuse contractor, Aim to increase waste recycling recycling opportunities, and aim to achieve zero landfill waste from the Market from our Covent Garden tenants, minimising the volume Building.
All non-recyclable waste will be taken to an produce reliable statistical data for oflandfill waste.
Energy Recovery Plant or Material Recycling ongoing monitoring and Facility MRF.
investigate options for rolling this out across our estate.
Waste segregation from our Covent Garden construction sites is being logged using online programme Smartwaste Continue to work closely with our to minimise landfill.
At The Henrietta development we contractors to minimise waste sent implemented robust segregation of waste, allowing 85 per to landfill.
At our head office we have installed desk-side recycling boxes and recycling bins on each floor.
Our recycling company uses an MRF site to maximise recycling opportunities.
Any non-recyclable waste is used as fuel for energy recovery by incineration.
Develop and implement We have made limited progress in this area.
Assess ways in which we can aprocess to monitor createefficiencies through efficiently water usage, improved monitoring and identifying and reducedconsumption.
Continue to focus During our development work at The Henrietta in Minimise energy consumption and development initiatives CoventGarden, we preserved as much of the existing CO2 emissions during the design onthe regeneration of building as possible, including most of the structure, phase of the Seagrave Road brown-field sites and the walltiles and windows.
Fireplaces were retained for development in line with the sensitive and appropriate use on futureprojects.
This will renovation of include using energy efficient LED lighting was introduced in areas of The Flower existingproperties.
building materials and creating a Cellarsdevelopment in Covent Garden to reduce sustainable living environment.
Continue to review the inclusion The new West Hall at Olympia has one of the most efficient of sustainable elements in our heavily loaded suspended floor slabs in the country, development programme to suit providing a saving of 15 per cent on its carbon footprint our occupiers.
compared with other forms of construction.
Sustainability and the environment continue to sit at theheart of the Masterplan for the ECOA and leading environmental consultants Beyond Green are an integral part of the design team.
46 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements commitment made last year progress what we achieved in 2011 2012 objective Health and safety regular reporting and monitoring To promote our Health & The Group H&S Committee, which is chaired by the update the H&S Management Plan Safety H&S Policy across Investment Director and includes representatives from all and further improve our H&S the organisation and to parts of the business, meets twice a year.
suppliers, to report and The Capco Board and subsidiary Boards receive regular monitor its effectiveness H&S reports.
and comply with the requirements of the In addition, each business holds its own meetings and Health and Safety at promotes H&S with suppliers and contractors.
An internal audit of H&S procedures has been completed.
local communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located To engage comprehensively earls court with the local communities The EC&O Venues Directors host regular residents Continue to support community where our assets are located.
meetings at both Earls Court and Olympia and have a projects which specifically benefit dedicated residents page on the website www.
co. uk in young people in London and in the order to maintain ongoing dialogue with the community.
areas where our assets are located.
Four public consultation exhibitions for the ECOA Masterplan were held at the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in March 2011 and were attended by over 1,000 people who live in the area.
Following feedback from these exhibitions, changes were made to the Masterplan.
A second series of exhibitions in June showcased these changes and unveiled the proposals for the Seagrave Road site.
com continues to be used as an effective tool to engage with local communities, attracting over 20,000 unique visitors in2011.
An education project with two local primary schools inEarls Court focused on the past, present and future ofthe area and environmental issues.
year 6 at Fulham Primary School won a Research Award at Hammersmith &Fulhams Childrens Parliament for their presentation onregeneration.
For the second year running, Capco sponsored the community arts event, The Earls Court Festival.
covent garden The Covent Garden team continues to build on its strong relationship with the Covent Garden Area Trust.
Tenants and local community groups were engaged and updated on the public realm improvements and works to King Street and the Piazza.
The Take Two education project was designed to engage 46 pupils from two schools in Camden and Westminster in crime and community safety issues through digital media.
The Covent Garden Business Enterprise challenge benefited a total of 550 young people.
We also supported Citrus Saturday, an educational initiative by university College London for 13 and 14 yearolds that combined a business skills training programme with experience of selling citrus-themed food and drink at Covent Garden stalls.
We have always encouraged our contractors to employ local skills and at our Flower Cellars development over 90 per cent of labour was from London boroughs.
com 47 our business performance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy CONTINuED commitment made last year progress what we achieved in 2011 2012 objective To engage comprehensively Our Executive Directors, Chairman and Deputy Chairman Continue to encourage shareholder with our shareholders.
engage regularly with shareholders and invite dialogue.
involvement in business strategy and dialogue with the Executive As an example the Executive Directors undertook 97 1:1 Directors and Chairman.
In addition, members of the uK Shareholders Association were invited to a strategy briefing from the Chief Executive and FinanceDirector.
To provide the highest EC&O Venues received The Venue Team of the year award To further enhance our property quality of property at theAEO Excellence Awards and was highly commended management strategy for the management and customer inthe category of Exhibition Venue of the year at the benefit of all stakeholders.
service across the Group, EventsAwards.
where possible meeting fully the objectives of shoppers, occupiers and visitors, and to promote appropriate practices forthe occupancy of ourproperties.
capco people we employ people with a diverse range of experience and expertise To engage comprehensively Staff are kept abreast of any major developments Launch corporate intranet site to with our staff.
Emails regarding community events are circulated to Implement internal development headoffice staff.
programmes that will enhance thecapability and performance of ourpeople.
Introduce succession planning at all levels within the business.
To encourage employees to In 2011 the Group gave 118,217 in charitable donations.
Continue to encourage employees engage in CR initiatives to engage in CR initiatives and Employee fundraising of 2,100 was matched by the Capco and contribute 100 Group contribute 120 Group employee staff recognition fund.
employee hours to hours to supporting these projects.
Over 100 Group employee hours were contributed to We will encourage individual supporting Capcos initiatives.
In addition, Capco To continue to develop fundraising activities of our people employees undertook a number of personal fundraising Group staff as good and their immediate families initiatives including triathlons, volunteering for Crisis corporate citizens whilst through the staff recognition fund.
encouraging them to undertake their own charitable initiatives through the staff recognition fund.
48 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements During 2012 we will be launching an internal We value the well-being of our workforce Health and safety people brand MyCapco which will andaim to encourage healthy and balanced As explained on page 47, the reporting of incorporate the following areas: performance, lifestyles.
Diversity is important to us and we urgent or serious matters is monitored by the reward, learning and development, giving recognise the business benefits of employing Group Health & Safety Committee and the back and well-being.
under this new internal people with varied outlooks.
The ratio of Board as necessary and performance is brand we will be launching a number of women to men within our Senior monitored by independent external advisers.
people-related initiatives including a learning Management team is 1:1.
Information on our With estimated combined visitor numbers and development strategy.
approach to Board diversity can be found in ofmore than 50 million to EC&O and Covent the Governance section on page 53.
Garden, there were 22 RIDDOR accidents Typically, we accelerate career development reported for the year and no prohibition for individuals by giving them significant Our people are supported in their notices served.
In respect of the 445 employees responsibility early in their careers.
Our fast professional development through further there were 4 reportable incidents.
moving business requires high performance academic study.
We currently have a number people at all levels so we have introduced a new of graduates working towards their final The number of people employed across the review process that measures performance in RICS APC assessment and two junior Group at the year end totalled 445, of which key skills and sets individual objectives that members of our Finance Team are working 52 are based at head office.
Our aim is to be are clearly linked to Company strategy.
We towards formal professional qualification.
theemployer of choice in our sector.
As a believe that high performance should be Aware of the challenges that young people are consequence of recruiting the best people recognised and therefore bonus awards are facing entering the job market, we aim to with entrepreneurial flair, we have high linked to ratings received during the review provide work experience placements across performing staff who deliver Capcos process.
Furthermore, as part of our the business.
remuneration strategy employees participate in our share schemes ensuring alignment to business strategy.
