Grainger plc 74 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
k Income tax Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using rates applicable during the year.
Tax payable upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
l Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension scheme Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period to which they relate.
ii Defined benefit pension scheme The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme that was closed to new members and employee contributions in 2003.
The full deficit in the scheme was recognised in the balance sheet as at 1 October 2004.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date by a qualified actuary, also under the Projected Unit Credit Method, for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in the groups financial statements under IAS 19.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
There are no current or past service costs as the scheme is closed to new members and employee contributions.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected return on pension scheme assets are reflected in the income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and losses net of deferred income tax are reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income each year.
