Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is embedded in BBA Aviations vision, mission and values and is fundamental to our objective of creating sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Every day our people put our values into action with pride: people performing services safely, responsibly and with integrity.
For BBA Aviation, operating in a responsible way is not just the right thing to do for our employees, Mark Harper the communities in which we operate and the environment beyond the confines of our sites, it also Non-Executive Director and makes sound business sense.
Our sustainability as a business depends on our relationships with our CSR Responsible Director business partners, our employees and our stakeholders across a range of matters that are of interest to them and to us.
On the BBA Aviation website www.
com you can read more about our approach to CSR.
There you will also find downloadable copies of our current and past years CSR reports, together with copies of policies such as our Ethics Implementation Policy and case studies showing some of the varied projects that BBA Aviations businesses are undertaking.
Our CSR reports include more information about the Groups CSR Steering Committee, about the data we collect Group-wide and about the external accreditations the Group has, which include ISO14001: Environmental Management systems, OHSAS18001: Health and Safety and ISO9001: Quality Management System.
In recent years we have become more focused in our approach to CSR matters.
Our targeted approach in areas such as energy usage and community involvement plays a role in realising our mission, supports our business model and contributes to BBA Aviations vision of being a dynamic, world-class supplier to the global aerospace industry, continuously delivering exceptional performance.
48 Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility CSR leadership Group-wide Our overarching objective of creating sustainable value for all stakeholders requires that we think carefully about the longer term, about working together for the greater gain and about the role of integrity and respect in the safe and sustainable environment that we are focused on delivering.
Our management structures, reporting processes and internal audit systems also support the delivery of this overarching objective, particularly in the core CSR areas of: Health and Safety Employees Environment Community Health and Safety We are committed to achieving a working environment which is safe, secure and which supports healthy lifestyles We will aim to pursue, achieve and promote best practices on Health and Safety specific to the aviation industry Employees We value the diversity of our employees and promote an inclusive environment recognising the importance of equality of opportunity We support employees through training and development, encouraging them to expand their capabilities and realise their potential Environment We will manage, and strive to reduce, our environmental impact through the more efficient use of the resources our businesses consume We will support innovative developments in technologies that support our business objectives and can offer environmental, community and social benefits Community We will identify opportunities to benefit local communities where we operate through community involvement and charitable giving The above are four extracts from the BBA Aviation Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility which is set out in full on our website.
This is another way in which the values of BBA Aviation set out on pages 14 and 15 are demonstrated and is a policy document that is reviewed each year by the Board of BBA Aviation plc.
While policy documents such as this are important, we believe that putting policy into practice is more important and in this Report and on our website we give some practical examples of what CSR looks like within BBA Aviation.
Directors Report 49 Corporate Social Responsibility One of ASIGs solar-powered, aircraft refuelling carts, at ASIGs new location in Tocumen, Panama.
50 Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety The Group-wide Recordable Incident Rate RIR at the end of 2011 was 3.08, which is 5.2% better than our RIR performance of 3.25 in 2010.
This represents the lowest rate for the current portfolio of our aviation businesses since we started to compile statistics in 2002.
134 out of 223 BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved an RIR of zero in 2011, continuing the improving trend, with 124 of our sites achieving an RIR of zero in 2010, 115 in 2009 and 101 in 2008.
The trends shown by these two KPIs are depicted on page 19, together with the other KPIs we track, including financial measures.
Each and every one of the sites achieving an RIR of zero provides evidence on the ground of our progress towards our zero incident goal.
Every employee working on those sites demonstrates in person the growing maturity of our safety improvement programmes.
Employees We appreciate the talent and commitment of our people and we want them to feel proud to be working for us.
Together we aim to provide a safe, sustainable and enjoyable working environment.
Employee engagement is important for enhancing BBA Aviations value creation.
We carried out our first all employee engagement survey in 2011 and the feedback from that will drive a number of key initiatives in 2012 and beyond.
Our employees will be given detailed feedback and will be involved in local action planning and implementation.
As part of our focus on people, we will be concentrating on training and development, including leadership, Health and Safety and general skills training to equip our employees for current and future business needs.
Environment Continuous improvement put into practice by APPH Nottingham led to their winning a Green Apple Environment award, after introducing an innovative process for cleaning and recycling the water in their waste machine coolant, thus reducing the amount of waste coolant sent for disposal by 87.5% in 2011 compared to 2009 and saving 5,000 a year in waste disposal costs.
At Ontic, taking a proactive approach to conversations with suppliers about shipping the amount of material required, rather than a standard amount that may become time expired before it is all used, has reduced by an estimated 90% the amount of hazardous waste that has to be removed from Ontics Chatsworth site.
ERO now has 13 sites in the US and its one site in the UK accredited to ISO14001, an international standard, also recognised by its customers.
Both Signature and ASIG have put in place idling policies for their Ground Support Equipment GSE, supported by employee communication and awareness campaigns aimed at reducing fuel usage, costs and emissions.
The range of equipment in the GSE fleet includes electric, solar see picture opposite, bio-diesel and hybrid vehicles.
Directors Report 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Community Each of our sites and businesses recognises the importance of being a good neighbour and contributing to the community in which it operates.
Encouraging our employees and businesses to donate time, resources and or money to local organisations brings significant benefits to the Group: it motivates employees, offers employees personal development opportunities and enhances our external relationships.
For example ERO has had an association with the Frontiers of Flight Museum in Dallas an affiliate of the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum since 2004 supporting the museum in its mission to educate and inspire, with a particular focus on its numerous youth educational programmes, under which more than 30,000 school children visit the museum each year with their teachers to receive instruction in science and mathematics through programmes that include ongoing involvement from the aerospace industry.
External reporting, recognition and awards Commitment to the environment and to health and safety continues to be recognised by customers, accreditation organisations and business partners.
Awarded by Award Awarded to Green Apple Environment Bronze Award APPH Nottingham Delta Airlines Triple Crown Award ASIG Tampa Colorado Department of Public Sustainability Champion Health and Environment Award ASIG Denver Atlas Air Worldwide Safety and Compliance Award ASIG Los Angeles Shell Goal Zero Health, Safety, Security & award scheme Environmental Platinum Award ASIG London Luton Shell Goal Zero Health, Safety, Security & award scheme Environmental Gold Award ASIG London Stansted Shell Goal Zero Health, Safety, Security & award scheme Environmental Silver Award ASIG Birmingham Shell Goal Zero Health, Safety, Security & award scheme Environmental Silver Award ASIG Manchester Shell Goal Zero Health, Safety, Security & award scheme Environmental Bronze Award ASIG London City We have been a member of the FTSE4Good index as BBA Aviation plc since 2006.
We have also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006.
