Helical Bar plc 2011 page 39 corporate responsibility Introduction Review of progress in the year to Helical recognises that our business activities impact on the environment 31st March 2011 and the wider communities in which we operate.
As our business involves We manage our environmental and social impacts because there are working with joint ventures partners and outsourcing partners, our direct business benets in doing so.
These benets include increased ability to impacts as a business are relatively small.
However, we are aware of secure planning consent, improved marketability of assets to prospective the inuence we can exert through the implementation of responsible tenants, reduced operating costs of assets, mitigating the risk of future environmental and social practices via our partners, contractors and legislation and regulation, and enhanced corporate reputation.
Below we outline our progress in relation to the each of our Corporate An endorsement of Helicals commitment to managing environment and Responsibility impact areas.
social impacts is our continued listing in the FTSE4Good Index.
The FTSE4Good Index measures the performance of companies that meet Environment globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and facilitates Our high-level corporate commitments to environmental issues is outlined investment in those companies.
Maintaining listed status on this Index in the Groups Environmental Policy which can be found on the Group remains a key priority for Helical, and informs our evolving approach to website.
The Policy details our commitments across a range of impact Corporate Responsibility.
areas and our development and property management activities.
In 2009-10, Helical set itself 18 targets to guide its Corporate Responsibility Managing Corporate Responsibility programme over the following 12 months.
These targets address a range In 2009 we revised and updated our environmental management system, of impacts arising from our development and property management which has been in place since 2003 and the updated environmental activities, including resource use and waste production, pollution, management system, available on the company website, has been biodiversity, tenant engagement, ood risk and sustainable design and embedded within the operations for Helical through the course of construction.
A full list of these targets can be found on the Helical website.
Key elements of the system include: The performance against the key targets is summarised below.
s@%NVIRONMENT AND@# POLICIESWHICHSETOUT s!TOUR EADOFlCEAT&ARM3T  Helicals high-level commitment across a number of impact areas.
of a 5% reduction in water use and energy.
This reects an increased s!NNUAL ANDROLLING  efficiency and internal awareness of how we use and manage our ofces.
efforts throughout the year on measurable, yet achievable performance s!TOURMANAGEDMULTI LETPROPERTIES  goals.
Improved environmental performance disclosure was also a key and water efficiency through the implementation of low and no cost piece of investor feedback.
This year we have reported on energy and measures.
The specic target for 2010-11 was to define the baseline water consumption at our large managed multi-let assets and head against which 5% improvement in efficiencies could be achieved.
ofce, which will now form the baseline for improvement targets going A review of the data in the table below shows that 61 Southwark forward for 2011-12.
St showed a reduction in use of gas and water and an increase in s EY0ERFORMANCE NDICATORS 0 S  use in electricity but given it was not fully tenanted throughout the these targets and to ensure that we are able to report in line with financial year it demonstrates the difficulties of assessing year on investor disclosure requirements, notably FTSE4Good.
year comparisons for managed multilet properties.
Within the other properties assessed, performance was variable but generally reected s! the level of occupancy.
In collaboration with our consultants, we developed a sustainability project management checklist to ensure s NEKEYTARGETFOR  that sustainability issues are incorporated into all decisions throughout to encourage improvements in efficiency of use of the buildings.
tenants engagement poster has been designed for use within each of the principal managed assets and will be displayed in public areas to s% help achieve this aim.
key Helical personnel, their external corporate responsibility advisors and principal managing agents to ensure effective delivery of the  !T objectives and targets.
Battersea, for instance, the provision of recycling facilities for tenants ensured that on average 25% of the waste generated was recycled.
The management system we have developed has been designed At Shepherds Building, following engagement with the tenants, a specically to reect the exibility of Helicals business model.
It also number have taken up their own recycling contracts thereby being in reects the key role that our partners play in delivering enhanced direct control of the management of their waste.
As a result the waste sustainability outcomes in all our business ventures, be they large-scale being disposed to landll has reduced by approximately 30%.
Similarly, developments such as the ongoing Stockport Gateway project, or in the proactive engagement with tenants at the Hub has increased the management of individual multi-let assets such as at Shepherds Building proportion of waste being recycled to approximately 40%.
In addition, the company is required to comply with the Carbon Reduction Commitment and during 2010-11 has registered for the scheme and undertaken its obligations to date.
page 40 Helical Bar plc 2011 corporate responsibility Below we present our utility consumption performance for 4 multi-let buildings under management as well as our head ofce where data availability permits.
OTAVAILABLE  G  Going forward for 2011 -12, the suitability of the targets will be reviewed against the performance for 2010-11 and revised accordingly to remain challenging yet achievable.
Employees Each horse will have a plaque with the artist and sponsor names.
The horses will be displayed from July till autumn, and then they will As at 31st March 2011, in the UK, we employed a team of 26 people, 38% be auctioned.
All profits will be shared between Racing Welfare and of whom are women.
We continue to enforce our equal opportunities, St Nicholas Hospice.
We allowed a number of the horses to be stored harassment and sexual discrimination policies.
We also continue to and decorated within the centre.
We have also facilitated charitable monitor compliance with our whistle blowing policy.
There have been no collections for the RSPB.
incidents to report against this policy to date.
s DLEWELLS3HOPPING#ENTRE 3UTTON IN ! TERM High levels of staff retention remains a key feature of our business.
void unit into an Art Gallery for the local Sutton Centre Community College.
Consequently, we retain a highly skilled and experienced team.
The table They are using it for the exhibition of art work created by their students, below shows a breakdown of our UK staff by length of service.
and as a base for members of their staff to promote the services offered Total number Average length of by the college to the local community.
A grand opening was organised, to of staff of service years which the local media were invited.
A competition was launched among the student population to suggest a name for the gallery, with the winning Directors and management 10 13 name decided as S. C. C. Cribble a play on the colleges initials.
Other Finance 7 9 intiatives include facilitating events for the Ashplorers RSPB Wildlife Explorer Administration 9 6 group and the Asheld Fair Share Trust.
We continue to make corporate donations to charity.
We contributed Our staff retention levels not only reect competitive remuneration 12,987 to charitable causes last year, including donations to King Sturge and benets packages but also our commitment to enhancing the Charitable Trust, Land Aid and the sponsorship of an Under 13 football team.
professional and personal skills of our team.
During 2010-11 we provided an average of 9.33 hours of training per employee, including funding Health & Safety for one staff member to complete a Masters degree in Real Estate.
As Helicals Health & Safety policy aims to develop a corporate culture that in previous years, we continue to evaluate training needs in line with is committed to the prevention of injuries and ill health to its employees or business objectives.
others that may be affected by its activities.
The Board of Directors and senior staff are responsible for implementing this policy and ensure that Communities health and safety considerations are always given priority in planning and Helical takes a strong interest in community issues.
In 2009, we updated our Health & Safety Policy engagement is an on-going concern throughout the development to reect the latest legislative and regulatory developments and there process, from planning until development completion and operation.
have been no reportable incidents within the portfolio during 2010 -11.
The following examples demonstrate how community engagement has All employees are expected to co-operate with the Company to achieve benefited the communities that we have worked with over the past year.
the objectives of this policy and must ensure that their own work, so far as is reasonably practicable, is carried out without risk to themselves or  #LYDE others.
The Company is committed to providing relevant information and Shopping Centre in Clydebank alongside our joint venture partner Prime necessary ongoing training to employees in respect of risks to health and Commercial Properties.
The Shopping Centre had a week of fundraising safety, which may arise out of their activities or at their workplace.
Our events on the week leading up to Comic Relief with Funky Hair Day, Health & Safety policy can be found on the company website at www.
Dress Down Day, Guess the Birthday and a Glasgow to London cycle helical.
ride involving all staff, stores and the general public to raise cash for Comic Relief.
Along with Rymans, Comic Relief pen sales raised 9,500 Suppliers in the centre.
Other initiatives include facilitating public collections for charities such as Guide Dogs for the Blind, the Rotary Club, Marie Curie Fair treatment of suppliers remains a key priority for Helical, particularly in Daffodil Appeal, Nazareth House and Yorkhill Childrens Foundation.
challenging market conditions where smaller suppliers in particular may rely on our payments for balanced cash ow.
The companys policy is s!TOUR.
@ ORSEABOUT to settle all agreed liabilities within the terms established with suppliers.
Newmarket, a community art event, featuring life size acrylic horses, During the past year, our average payment period to suppliers was 14 days.
which are creatively designed and painted by local artists, companies and schools.
Once completed, the equine works of art will be displayed to the general public at various locations throughout the town.
