13 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review Corporate Responsibility Policy Through sustainable construction we aim to create new invest in the communities we develop in a way that communities and lasting environments for people now contributes to local community needs.
manage our environmental footprint and aim to Bellway believes that its reputation is critical to the enhance our performance in areas where we operate, creation of long-term value for its shareholders.
We particularly in relation to energy and waste.
recognise that financial success is reinforced by our consider and respond to the social and environmental behaviour beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and effects of the homes we develop and communities enhancing our reputation and social licence to operate that we create.
are significant elements of sustained financial success.
improve internal and external awareness of our At Bellway, the term Corporate Responsibility describes corporate responsibility programmes and initiatives.
how we manage the environmental, social and economic effects of our business and how these affect report regularly to the Board and external our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, the stakeholders on performance using sustainability communities where we work and the environment that indicators.
we operate in, and goes beyond our legal or regulatory The following structure has been put in place to achieve obligations.
This policy sets out how we will operate and these commitments: drives the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
the Chief Executive is responsible for this policy and Through Bellways commitment to corporate advises the Board on all corporate responsibility responsibility we will: matters.
engage and respond to stakeholders, including the Chief Executive is supported by the CSR Group shareholders, employees, customers, government which includes senior employees from within the andcommunities that we affect.
Group who are responsible for the development and comply with all relevant legislation as a minimum review of this policy.
the finance directors or managers of each regional work towards recognised good practice in division are responsible for implementation and sustainability and corporate responsibility.
treat all employees fairly and invest in training for Bellway is committed to reporting annually on its thelong-term to bring out the best in our people.
approach to corporate responsibility and has established key performance indicators to enable others to judge provide a healthy and safe environment in which our performance.
This policy does not replace existing towork through an effective health and safety policies on environment, health and safety and wood management system.
procurement, but has been developed to work in demonstrate continual improvement in our approach conjunction with them.
All policies are available on the to sustainable developments in both design and Bellway website www.
co. uk and are reviewed practice.
recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement The business environment is constantly evolving and recent years have seenan increasing emphasis on corporate social responsibility CSR.
Thisevolution has been reflected in mounting pressure on business for greater transparency and accountability in environmental and social performance alongside economic performance.
We have been reporting openly on the CSR aspects Ourdevelopment in Chrisp Street, Poplar, east London, ofour business since 2003.
During that time we have will utilise a CHP system to heat 117 homes.
CHP worked with our stakeholders and established provides similar reductions in CO2 emissions to biomass mechanisms through which they can be involved in due to the co-generation of heat and electricity, thus ourenvironmental and social strategy.
The following displacing and reducing the need for electricity from the paragraphs exhibit some of the work that has been National Grid.
undertaken this year and provides a glimpse of our Selecting Responsible Supply Chain Partners approach towards developing sustainable communities.
Housing currently produces around one-third of the Saving Energy UKs CO2 emissions.
In working towards reducing our On the edge of Castle Bromwich in the West Midlands, carbon footprint we work closely with our supply chain our Oaklands development features a range of homes partners to maximise energy savings.
One of our where we have installed solar panels and rainwater principal suppliers of kitchen furniture is in the process harvesting systems.
Rainwater harvesting can reduce of commissioning a two megawatt wind turbine at their water consumption by up to 50%.
The rainwater which production facility in Yorkshire, which will make the is collected from roofs is stored in underground tanks facility energy neutral.
The same supplier employs and is used in toilets and for garden irrigation.
Systems delivery vehicles that have been engineered to convert such as these can achieve and maintain excellent water nitrogen oxides into harmless nitrogen and water.
quality with a minimum of maintenance as well as Theirkitchen carcasses are made from 100% recycled reducing utility bills.
materials and all timber based materials are sourced from guaranteed Forest Stewardship Council FSC At Alston Grange in Chelmsford, Essex, we are creating sustainable forests.
a new residential quarter comprising 22 new homes incorporating photovoltaic panels on the roofs.
These Our supplier of underground drainage systems has panels generate electricity for the homes during daylight recently introduced a new and innovative technology hours and have the capacity of returning unused called Recycore.
This results in the manufacture of a electricity to the National Grid.
We estimate that multilayered pipe that reduces the use of virgin materials residents at Alston Grange will save around 350 per in its products so that they can be manufactured with year on their fuel bill.
In addition, the renewable 50% recycled material that is sourced from old UPVC technology achieves a 10% reduction in carbon window frames, pipes and fascia boards.
a 50% reduction of virgin UPVC usage in favour of recycled material and we estimate, based upon 2011 In higher density developments, particularly in our building levels, that the amount of virgin UPVC used will Thames Gateway division, we have adopted an energy fall by 144.5 tonnes in 2012. strategy that relies upon generating energy using biomass boilers and combined heat and power CHP Supporting Training technology.
In Whitechapel, east London, we are using In addition to our own training programmes, periodically abiomass boiler in our SpacE1 development to heat we are asked by schools and colleges to host visits.
This will reduce CO2 emissions by 23% Earlier this year students from Harrogate College visited andsave around 93,000 kilograms of CO2 per year.
our Edison Fields development in Guiseley, Yorkshire.
Charity bike ride organised by staff from our wales division.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information The students who are studying for a diploma in joinery Berkshire areas.
The new centre will be able to offer MS and carpentry were able to view the construction sufferers treatments including oxygen therapy, massage, process at close quarters which assisted their classroom counselling, acupuncture, reflexology, speech therapy work.
Supporting the Community Bioremediation The Governments Localism Bill is designed to boost At Barking Riverside in east London, we have been development and provide local communities with working with our partners, The London Wildlife Trust added benefits.
We welcome the Governments and the architectural practice Make:Good, along with intention to reform the planning system, ensuring that local volunteers, to create the largest bee house in the planning decisions involve local people.
Solitary bees that make up 90% of our bee this we are developing initiatives to support a population are in decline as a result of the increased use community focused approach to formulating of pesticides.
At Barking Riverside, using wood and development plans.
bamboo to mimic a natural habitat, we have created a 178 square feet bee house.
We have also created a new Arising from the granting of planning permissions, this habitat for a colony of water voles that were living on year Bellway has contributed a total 30.9 million to the site.
The water voles were successfully relocated local communities through Section 106 planning following an agreed strategy with the Environment agreements.
By way of an example, our Poppyfields Agency, and specialist ecologists were brought in to development at Newton in Nottingham involves the manage the relocation process.
construction of a new community comprising 83 homes.
Arising from the development, 750,000 has been used Charitable Giving Examples to deliver new affordable housing, educational Our employees are involved in a diverse range of social improvements and improve traffic management in the and charitable initiatives, which see them supporting wider community as well as providing a greater variety schools and charities alike.
In our Yorkshire division, as of housing stock for the region.
aresult of dress down days, 505 was raised for the In the face of a challenging market, and in conjunction Make-A-Wish Foundation, and in the West Midlands with Thurrock Thames Gateway Development division our employees came together to raise 1,400 Corporation, we have pioneered an agreement to for the Cancer Ward at Birminghams Queen Elizabeth develop both affordable and private housing whereby Hospital.
In Wales a team from Bellway cycled the the landowner is paid on the sale of the homes, thus entire length of Wales to raise 8,000 to support a mitigating the initial costs of the development and school that takes care of children suffering from autism.
enabling the building work to be brought forward.
This year, as a Group, Bellway has made charitable donations of 20,716.
By adopting a new and more flexible approach as Summary tohow the land transaction is structured in the development process we have been able to enter To be successful, any environmental policy and social into an agreement and bring forward the programme must link aspirations with practical development to create much needed housing in objectives.
In Bellways case this means understanding acontinually improving residential location.
the environmental and social issues which affect our NiallLindsay Thurrock Thames Gateway business and working with the local community to build Development Corporations Chief Executive.
vibrant and sustainable places to live and work.
The aforementioned case studies provide some examples ofour approach to meeting our corporate responsibility In Bedford we have commenced work on the former objectives: further information is available on our CSR RAF Cardington site.
In the future, this old airbase will website www.
be transformed into a new 970 home community.
This year, as part of the regeneration of the site, we have opened a new Cadet Centre for the Air Cadets and begun the regeneration of the old Shorts Building that will provide community facilities, including a Sure Start Nursery, community training centre and IT suite as well as residential accommodation on the upper floors.
In Wendover, Buckinghamshire, we are developing a new community comprising 400 new homes.
As part ofthe development process we are also contributing 750,000 towards the cost of building a new Multiple Sclerosis MS Centre to replace an existing building.
The new 14,000 square feet centre is significantly larger and will provide much enhanced services to MS Bee house, Barking Riverside, london Borough of Barking and dagenham.
sufferers in the Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire and Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
