19 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review Environmental Policy Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding groups in the In addition to our key objectives, the Group has UK.
The housebuilding process affects the environment identified a number of specific priority areas upon by the use of land and consumption of resources which we will be particularly focusing: throughout the development process.
It is our objective consideration of environmental aspects in the to ensure that at the conclusion of a development an selection and procurement of land for development, attractive and desirable new environment has been including implications for biodiversity and sustainable created that will be sustainable over time.
Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit meeting and, where possible, exceeding government any negative effect on, and enhance, the environment, targets for the redevelopment of brownfield land.
this statement sets out our policies for managing the environmental aspects across our business.
influencing the design of sites, housing, and fittings to minimise the effects on both the natural and built Key objectives are to: environment.
minimise any deleterious effects on the environment providing environmental benefits and minimising and where possible to seek environmental nuisance arising from construction activities, and enhancements, concentrating on areas where there preventing pollution on development sites and ismost room for improvement.
aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed all consideration of environmental issues within our relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
corporate functions and everyday business decisionimprove our environmental performance.
set specific environmental objectives and periodically The above statement will be balanced against economic review progress against these.
ensure that Bellways environmental aims and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including to appropriate sub-contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of this policy statement is displayed in each Bellway site and office.
consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
Solar panel installation, Cleadon Vale, Tyne and Wear.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
