Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 40 Corporate responsibility Delivering sustainable performance.
Our approach to corporate responsibility CR is centred around a sound business case and rooted in our new vision and values.
Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer For the long term, a strong commitment Our values of determination, caring, Our sustainability priorities to CR enhances our resilience to risk: it empowerment and teamwork represent Put simply, corporate responsibility is gives us a long-term perspective of our the core principles we believe in, and integral to the long-term sustainability operating environment.
It helps secure stand for, as a group of businesses.
We place great While our different business units do our supply chain and, when we plan a importance on our management reduction in our consumption of water different things in different ways, what ofhealth and safety matters, our we value is always the same across our and other raw materials, we are less environmental impact and sustainability.
exposed to unit price increases and organisation.
Our Values will help us succeed by strengthening our sense volatility.
Furthermore, an honest Our CR priorities are to: commitment to CR helps to retain ofbelonging and unifying everyone Deliver sustainability throughout k across the Berendsen group around bothemployees and customers and ourvalue chain: strengthens relationships with key acommon purpose.
stakeholders, including local k Maintain a motivated, healthy and communities.
How we manage CR safeworkforce: The board regularly reviews k Reduce our impact on the Our Vision and Values themanagement of CR issues.
environment: and Towards the end of 2011 we developed Theyacknowledge their responsibility Secure long-term relationships k anew group-wide company Vision inestablishing and updating our withour customers and suppliers.
Sustainability is absolutely CRpolicies which cover ethics, the central to both we are here for the environment, our employees, health These priorities are outlined in more long term.
We want to grow and succeed andsafety and the communities in detail on the following five pages.
not only through the coming decade which we operate.
The board receives However, although each of these but for the next 50 years and more.
formal reports on CR policy compliance priorities is managed independently, in Apriland October each year.
allare interlinked and are based on Under the banner of One Berendsen, sound business thinking.
our Vision describes what were here Overall responsibility for CR policy implementation and compliance lies todo: provide excellent textile services The business case for CR for customers.
It also reminds us why with the Chief Executive Officer.
Through our decentralised Berendsen is successful we take pride What does CR bring to our group?
in doing what were best at, delivering management structure, our local Ofcourse its the right thing to do.
teamssupport the Chief Executive unsurpassed levels of service, so our Intheshort term, it also makes us more customers can do what theyre best at.
Officer in implementing our group efficient, cost-effective and attractive CRpolicies, taking into account local More importantly, it gives us direction, asa commercial partner.
For example, helping ensure our success long into cultures and legislation.
initiatives which reduce waste and thefuture.
improve energy efficiency cut our bills.
A sharp focus on CR also resonates withmany of our customers it ensures that we are recognised as a thoughtful and considerate company with a commercial offer in tune with their expectations and commitments.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 41 Being accountable and taking action Our operating environment During the past year we continued to The marketplace is characterised carry out extensive work to assess the We experienced five CR-related byincreasingly higher sustainability codes of conduct of our supplier base.
Four of these incidents standards, many of them enshrined A total of 309 textile suppliers have occurred in the UK, including: inlegislation, particularly relating to nowbeen contacted.
Of these, the k Three complaints made by health and safety, employment and greatmajority either had an appropriate neighbours relating to local disruption theuse of water and chemicals.
code in place or otherwise satisfied Asanabsolute minimum, we meet including noise which were usthat they were compliant with all satisfactorily resolved: and these requirements and in most cases ourrequirements.
The remaining strive tosurpass them.
61suppliers were tasked with replying k A letter from a water authority to a survey by 1st November 2011.
This alleging potential water pollution When our clients outsource their resulted in ending our relationship with from one of our plants, for which requirements to us, we recognise that 15 suppliers, as we considered they were correspondence has continued but they are also externalising the costs not able to meet Berendsen standards.
with no further issue being raised.
and the impact of the sustainability issues that affect them.
For example, k The final incident was in the How we report data volatile prices for commodities such as Netherlands where we suffered water and energy must be managed by For historic reasons and the way in a small chlorine leak from one our teams in order to deliver value to which our group has grown through of our storage tanks, which was our clients as well as to our business.
acquisitions as well as organic growth promptly repaired.
we have traditionally collected, Ultimately, we regard sustainability not Our managers ensure that there is consolidated and reported CR data as a cost but as an opportunity the prompt and open dialogue with all third on a regional or geographic basis.
right things for us to do are to play our parties in the event of any issues being role in our communities, to protect the From next year, we will be reporting raised, so that any necessary action environment and our employees, and by business line.
This will provide required is quickly agreed and taken.
tocreate a real and demonstrable us with a more meaningful insight into competitive advantage in our performance, by identifying the specific Our plans for 2012 marketplace.
areas where we are doing well and Sustainability is a process of continuous where we can make improvements.
Managing our contracts improvement, so it is more often a The ability to demonstrate a proven journey rather than a destination.
Risks and opportunities track record on sustainability is Although we have made good progress, increasingly important.
Often, it is Our risks as a business are discussed we are not complacent and recognise fundamental to pass the initial stage of inmore detail on pages 32 to 39. that much remains to be achieved.
Poor performance on issues Ourapproach tosustainability is Wewill review our sustainability such as carbon emissions, water usage focused on the identification and policies, analyse any stakeholder and related policies and targets will management of material risks and feedback received and plan future negatively impact any bid.
to retain existing clients and attract new k Water, energy, chemicals, oil and ones, the increased efficiencies we are gas WECO : able to achieve promote our reputation, Delivering sustainability help reduce our cost base and provide Environment: throughout our value chain k amore sustainable and commercially k Exposure to price changes: advantageous offer to our clients.
Our value chain k Future regulation: and In order to secure our supply chain The nature of our business dictates that andreduce risk, we are looking to Increased demands from customers k the services we provide to clients have reduce the number of suppliers in regarding sustainability.
an impact on the environment and our thecoming year.
Experience tells us that this highest standards from us and we impact, when influenced by our CR inturn expect the samefrom our approach, can be positive throughout suppliers.
We leverage our buying the value chain.
power to encourage suppliers toact Monitoring and managing such impacts responsibly.
For example, we is part of everyday life at Berendsen and encouragethe use of biodegradable we work hard to identify opportunities detergent and the purchase of organic where we can gain efficiencies, cotton.
reducecosts or improve the working environment for our employees.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 42 Corporate responsibility continued Our marketplace Encouraging a sense of identity, Maintaining a motivated, teamwork and shared values healthy and safe workforce Our marketplace is discussed in more Our new company Vision and detail in the Chief Executive Officers Our business depends for the most accompanying Values express the review on pages 10 and 11. parton our employees performance identity of the group and articulate inthe conduct of our operations.
thesense of belonging that runs across From a corporate responsibility Theirmotivation and health and safety perspective, we are keen to play our role all our businesses.
However, we also are fundamental parts of our strategy.
want our people to be proud of the in the industry and participate in many forums, where we encourage others to individual businesses and locations One of our key objectives is to where they work.
follow our lead on sustainability issues.
improvefinancial returns by These forums include the European  efficiency.
Teamwork is a core Berendsen value.
Textile Services Association ETSA Ourmanagement teams are continually We build great relationships between andthe Business Services Association working to advance operational our teams to connect our people BSA, for which our Finance Director, excellence, motivating and encouraging andexpertise with customers and Kevin Quinn, is the current chairman.
our staff who, through their continued partners so we can deliver the best efforts, ultimately drive our success.
Engaging with stakeholders Wetherefore recognise that maintaining Although each business line may be the strength of our management teams Our key stakeholders are: slightly different and behave historically and engaging with all our employees in a slightly different way, our values of k Employees: isvery important in delivering the determination, caring, empowerment standards that our customers require Customers: k and teamwork are shared across and expect.
Suppliers: k Our priorities are: Engagement k Our local communities: and Encouraging a sense of identity, k Engagement is the starting point for our k Investors.
teamwork and shared values: commitment to our people.
Without meaningful dialogue, we cannot Engagement: k Each of these stakeholders has specific encourage, involve, train or otherwise areas of interest.
We maintain regular k Attracting and retaining talent: enter into constructive relationships and appropriate communication and withour teams.
k Health and safety: and dialogue with each stakeholder group toensure that their interests are Diversity.
Our plans for 2012 Key actions: group Promote a one company vision We will continue to focus on our We are now using the Team Briefing  risks and Communicating process to reinforce the introduction opportunities.
We anticipate that withouremployees of the new Vision and Values.
ourmove to a business line structure Our UK Workwear business operates a Team Steve McNiven from 1stJanuary 2012 will facilitate Briefing system as a means of communicating Country Manager, UKWorkwear theidentification of even greater to everyone in the business on a regular opportunities to enhance our reputation basis.
From the senior management as a responsible organisation and to team, information is cascaded down the management chain, picking up more local and further strengthen our relationships with specific points and issues along the journey.
key stakeholders at local and business Our people in plants receive a verbal briefing line levels.
either by their manager or a trained colleague.
The system also allows for information to be passed up the management chain, so that any queries raised can be effectively responded to.
Monthly briefing forms are posted on Team Briefing Notice Boards around the workplace to remind everyone of the important points.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 43 Attracting and retaining talent Reducing our impact 2009 2010 2011 Our operations recruit people, where on the environment UK and Ireland 1.07 0.89 0.66 they can, from their local communities.
Environmental issues present both risks As a consequence we recognise the Nordic 0.58 0.39 and opportunities to Berendsen.
importance of maintaining a strong local Continent 0.58 0.45 0.76 reputation and have a group-wide We use significant volumes of raw policy that requires our businesses to Group 0.87 0.70 0.57 materials and chemicals in the course of respect all local cultures and religions.
Reducing the volumes 1 Major injury rate Number of major injuries used and better managing the Responsibility for staff training and number of hours worked times 1,000,000. environmental impact of our operations recruitment lies with our business unit 2 Major injuries as defined under UK rules in The will help advance the sustainability of management.
We focus on induction Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous our business, improve our performance Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR.
training at all levels, individual and, at the same time, reduce costs.
development plans and, where All instances of major injury during appropriate, cross-border transfers.
Environmental priorities Weprovide a mixture of on-the-job Wecontinue to focus on reducing training for our operational, sales and ourmajor injury rate, the target Our priorities relate to our use of water, service employees and leadership alwaysbeing zero.
energy, chemicals, oil and gas WECO.
training for our more senior staff.
If an employee were unfortunately to Water use and recovery General training and development plans become disabled during the course We have installed water recovery are designed to meet the expectations oftheir employment, every effort systems in the majority of our of all employees.
wouldbe made to ensure that their operations, reducing water As stated on page 42 we recognise employment with the group continues consumption by between 20% and 25%.
thatmaintaining the strength of our and that where considered necessary, Reduced water consumption also management teams is very important appropriate retraining is arranged.
results in less energy being used to heat indelivering the standards that our up water for washing.
Consequently Therewere no such instances during 2011. customers require and expect.
That is weare more efficient and less energy Diversity why we monitor as a key performance iswasted.
Attracting, retaining and motivating indicator our Senior Management appropriately skilled people is essential Our systems process laundry effluent Retention Rate for each country and to our success.
toa standard suitable for reuse in our region, and for the group as a whole.
As the recovered water is at Statistics for 2009 to 2011 are shown in We currently operate in 15 countries, a high temperature, less heat is required the table below: encompassing a wide range of to reach the temperatures needed for languages and cultures.
We value our laundry processes.
2009 2010 2011 diversity in our workforce and have a Efficient wash processes are used UK and Ireland 96% 100% 94% policy prohibiting discrimination against employees or potential employees.
Our chemical Nordic 85% 94% 86% suppliers validate these processes and Itisalso our policy not to discriminate Continent 96% 92% 91% against disabled persons, particularly provide monthly reports.
They are also tasked with investigating all potential regarding recruitment and selection, Group 92% 95% 92% training, career development areas of efficiency gains.
Our Senior Management Retention Boiler water treatment suppliers validate Rate remains stable.
boiler operation at each site and report Our plans for 2012 monthly.
We maintain boiler efficiency Health and safety by monitoring the quality of water.
We will continue to put every effort in We recognise health and safety as an Inaddition, flue gas thermometers are toreducing our major injury rate and operational priority and as an important installed to identify any loss in efficiency.
working towards a zero injury rate element of our risk management Steam trap surveys are carried out target.
We continue to maintain a every six months and hotwell and Development Review Process will robust reporting system for use in the temperatures are monitored to provide get into full swing during 2012.
We will unfortunate occurrence of health and insight into the efficiency of the steam also be starting a process to identify the safety related incidents.
Any such and condensate loop.
existing profile of our management incidents are promptly reported and teams throughout the business, investigated, and actions agreed to Heat loss, energy loss, usage and including diversity.
All members of the minimise the risk of such incidents efficiency, and carbon emissions executive board now have specific reoccurring.
Group incident statistics Energy usage is a KPI that is monitored targets to promote diversity in the areregularly collected and reviewed by weekly through meter readings.
Where business, and we will be looking for the board.
The table below shows the practical, equipment is installed and opportunities to increase the diversity 2009, 2010 and 2011 Major Injury Rate monitored to help us identify areas ofour management structure for each of the UK and Ireland, Nordic ofhigh usage and potential savings.
Anexample is the use of meters which track hourly energy consumption.
Wealso use equipment that varies ouruse of energy according to the workload being processed.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 44 Corporate responsibility continued Impact of transport and logistics Group-wide CO2 performance The Carbon Trust Standards assessment carried out at Sunlight We have continued to review our vehicle Following the implementation of our routes to ensure the most efficient use inJuly 2011 scored our carbon group-wide policy on CO2 reporting measurement approach very highly.
of our resources and also introduced a in2010, we have made progress in number of additional initiatives during When compared to other Standard ensuring that all business units follow Bearers in our region, sector and with the year.
This year we are reporting similar energy expenditure, we scored For example, we use larger vehicles consolidated data for the first time, consistently high marks.
Given the where possible to reduce the overall using the GHG greenhouse gas robust assessment approach of number of vehicles on the road and protocol methodology.
We measure theCarbon Trust Standard we are carry greater volumes of goods per mile thekilogrammes of CO2 emitted from particularly pleased to have scored driven.
In the UK, vehicle specifications laundries and other sites in each of the sohighly in comparison with over now include side collars to reduce drag countries in which we operate, using 600other Standard Bearers.
and we have lowered the height of established local conversion factors.
vehicles by six inches to reduce fuel Aggregating the tonnes of laundry that The following table shows our scores consumption.
For vehicles up to we have shipped to customers we are determined by the Carbon Trust 3.5tonnes speed is restricted to 60mph, able to calculate kg of CO2 per tonne Standard benchmarking report: and for larger vehicles to 52mph.
shipped for each of our regions and thegroup.
Sunlight Service Group Percentile In 2010, our Sunlight business became Carbon performance versus: Rank an official training company for Drivers Our CO2 emission data for 2011 is All Carbon Trust CPC training.
All 600 of our drivers asfollows: Standard Bearers 95-100% received seven hours training on accident prevention and fuel efficient Kg of CO2 per tonne Region of laundry shipped driving techniques.
In 2010, Sunlight South East England 95-100% trialled the use of a recording system UK and Ireland 449 Sector Wholesale and in 2011 we escalated this initiative and Distribution 95-100% Nordic 336 toinclude full site trials in Linen and Healthcare.
Early results showed fuel Continent 492 Energy Spend savings of up to 23%.
Our target at 10 million per annum 90-95% Group 434 group level remains however to achieve a 10% saving in vehicle fuel.
Each area is scored by the Carbon We have not as yet been able to Trustaccording to a percentile rank benchmark this emission data with any compared to the total performance industry standard, although in 2012 ofother Carbon Trust Bearers.
A score ETSA intends to establish a working above the 50th percentile puts an group to discuss the identification and organisation above the average for development of appropriate industry thegroup being compared.
For a score key performance indicators.
We will of 95100% Sunlight Service Group ofcourse be participating in this would score higher than 95 out of 100 working group.
Standard Bearers for their total Carbon The monitoring, consolidating and Management assessment score.
reporting of such data is, however, a learning curve and we are committed to refining the way in which we approach this important issue.
As an example of our commitment, Sunlight Service Group has achieved Carbon Trust Standard certification, Sweden reduction in which is valid until 31st December 2012.
WECO consumption The Carbon Trust Standard certifies an In Sweden we have been working hard to organisations ability to measure, manage reduce our consumption of water, electricity, and reduce its carbon emissions.
chemicals and oil and gas.
This has been achieved through a combination of investment in more efficient plant and machinery, and focusing more on processoptimisation.
100 90 80 70 2009 2010 2011 Water litres kg washed Electricity Kwh kg washed Chemicals gr kg washed Oil Kwh kg washed Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 45 Key actions: business lines Leverage operational efficiency and wider application of best practice Move of textile sourcing fromChina and Indonesia toCambodia In the first quarter of 2011 we visited various textile suppliers in Cambodia where we identified potential unit cost savings as well as duty savings.
We diligently completed checks on compliance with our CR Policies and after being satisfied processed some trial orders.
These proved to be up to our high standards, and as a result a high percentage of our sourcing of textiles is now being moved from China and Indonesia to Cambodia.
The United Nations Global Compact During 2011, we continued to develop We regularly carry out site visits to high and roll-out initiatives that support these risk suppliers.
Last year we introduced Early in 2012 we produced our second vital relationships within the context of anew Direct Sourcing Assessment Communication on Progress since our strategic priorities, which are to: foroverseas manufacturers that aims joining the United Nations Global toensure that all suppliers adhere to Compact in 2009.
Participation Enable business growth: k thehighest standards.
The audit rates continues to provide us with a Attract new customers: suppliers on a wide range of criteria, k recognised and respected framework including wages, working hours, for our work on sustainability and k Retain the existing customer base: and discrimination and child labour.
Many of the k Secure a reliable and high performing markets that we operate in are also supply chain.
Bribery and corruption increasingly demanding that suppliers embrace the ideals outlined in the Requirements on minimum procedures Procurement Global Compacts ten principles.
in order to prevent bribery and The value of goods and services corruption were rolled-out to all of Our plans for 2012 purchased is increasingly fundamental ourbusinesses in early 2011.
All of to our operating profit.
To improve our ourbusinesses have signed up to We will continue to focus on building competitiveness, we have placed theseprocedures.
agreater understanding of our renewed focus on all procurement environmental impacts and how these They are now tasked with adopting activities and launched a new can best be mitigated to the benefit arisk-based approach to managing Purchasing Policy during the year.
ofour business, people, customers, theissue of bribery and corruption.
We will The objective of our procurement Therequirements that we issued include ensure that our investment decisions teamsis to improve the bottom line by instructions for assessing such risks on going forward take into consideration developing and improving commercial at least an annual basis or when any our commitment to reducing our and operational purchasing.
Primarily, changes in structure take place.
this will be achieved by utilising our same time, we have produced training buying power, and by negotiating for material on anti-bribery and corruption.
the best possible cost, quality and We have also implemented a supplier Securing long-term leadtimes.
whistleblowing line by which they have relationships with our Working with suppliers the opportunity to inform us of any customers and suppliers We are committed to reducing the issues or areas of concern that they Berendsen is in business for the totalnumber of suppliers we are mayhave.
We value the enduring working with in order to strengthen relationships we have built with ourbuyingposition, increase levels of Our plans for 2012 customers and suppliers and work hard standardisation across the business We will continue to work with our to ensure that the mutual benefit and andaccess valuable economies of customers and suppliers in order to respect they engender continue into scale.
Through our Supplier Policy, develop new, and enhance existing thefuture.
Our continued focus on whoprovide the best prices at For our relationships with customers, anti-corruption and bribery is very stipulated volumes.
the main challenges are associated with much driven by the board, and we trust and performance.
All preferred suppliers are expected to willbe working with business line work towards continuous improvement management to ensure that we closely For supplier relationships, the on all aspects of our requirement, monitor the content of bribery and challengesare more commonly around including total cost of ownership.
Inreturn, we give preferred suppliers theopportunity to re-quote should another potential supplier offer us a product at lower cost.
