58 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility A responsible approach aligned to our business model Increased focus on, and investment in our approach to responsible investing and related ESG matters during the year reinforces our business model and our brand.
One of our values is to strive for continual improvement and innovation.
During the year, in-depth research, with over 200 people across a wide range of groups, as part of our brand review, evidenced that 3i is seen as a highly responsible business and investor.
It also highlighted the need for greater consistency and more effective communication with our portfolio on ESG issues.
The progress in each aspect of our business model in terms of responsible investing is shown below.
Core values and brand Our core values underpin our brand and these are that in all our activities we will: be commercial and fair: respect the needs of our shareholders, investors, our people and the companies in which we invest: maintain our integrity and professionalism: and strive for continual improvement and innovation.
Secure access to capital from Invest in our network, See the best investment multiple sources people and knowledge opportunities Our annual Corporate Governance event Further investment in our One 3i and We have invested time and resources with shareholders, individual engagements Training Board initiatives continued our focus in seeking earlier and greater visibility with the investors in our funds, and our on the retention and engagement of highly of material ESG matters in our round table discussions with the wider qualified and appropriately competent investment processes.
investment community have provided employees.
This is central to 3i being both useful input to developing our approach.
Invest in our network, people and knowledge Secure access See the best to capital from investment multiple sources opportunities Core values Brand Build great Create innovative companies and financial solutions deliver outstanding and ensure excellent returns execution Achieve full potential through active partnership Build great companies and Achieve full potential through Create innovative financial solutions deliver outstanding returns active partnership and ensure excellent execution We are developing a more explicit responsible Increased training and improved tools for our As part of our increased training and investment approach for each stage of the investment professionals on a range of ESG awareness on ESG issues, there is a focus investment lifecycle, and integrating a deeper topics is being developed in order to create on transparency and on good governance.
analysis of the materiality and management greater awareness and capability, as well as of ESG matters in our portfolio company helping to identify opportunities for enhanced review process.
