O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 57 Corporate responsibility at 3i At 3i, we believe that being a responsible investor is integral to achieving our vision and strategy.
Our goal is to be a top performer in the area, and to influence positively our portfolio companies where we can do so.
It is increasingly important to be aware of, and take into account, a broad spectrum of responsible investing issues, ranging from the imperative of global sustainability, to demands for greater transparency and accountability.
We also believe that businesses with high environmental, social and governance standards tend to be better run and have more sustainable business models than those that fail to take such issues into account.
Being a responsible investor and a In our industry, there is also a need to demonstrate that we have a responsible approach to investing which responsible business is a vital part is integrated into our investment and other processes.
of achieving 3is vision and strategy.
Increasingly, our shareholders and fund investors are A long-term approach to thinking on expecting this, as do our staff.
environmental, social and governance We are increasing our efforts to imbed and integrate our responsible investing approach into our investment ESG matters makes good business and portfolio review processes on a consistent basis.
We believe that companies with We also continue to develop policies and tools, and build high standards on these issues are better a network of leading advisers, that will assist our staff in making well-informed judgements.
run, are lower risk and easier to realise value from.
You can see some of the results of this in the Corporate responsibility section of our Investor relations website, www.
com cr The following pages provide an update on our efforts and highlight our key achievements and the challenges that we face in our approach.
Michael Queen Chief Executive Organisation and governance Board level Brand and Values Committee Chaired by 3i Chairman Senior level Corporate Responsibility Group Risk Investment Committee Committee Committee Portfolio Committee Chaired by General Counsel Chaired by Operating Committee and Company Secretary Chief Executive Operational level Implementation by staff with the support of in-house and external expertise For more information, please go to Accountability in the corporate responsibility CR section of our Investor relations IR website.
For more information on the following, please go to: For more information please go to: Chief Executives review p7 k www.
com cr k Strategy and performance p12 k transparency k
