Corporate responsibility report The Board, in partnership with the Investment Adviser, reviews the Core values and approach to approach to corporate responsibility every year, and will keep corporate responsibility innovating in this important area.
The Companys approach to corporate responsibility is commercially Summary of 3i Infrastructures corporate based and driven by 3i Infrastructures aim to be a partner of choice responsibility investment policy for current and potential portfolio companies.
The Board, which as a whole is responsible for the definition and As a public company, 3i Infrastructure is committed to putting its implementation of the Companys corporate responsibility policy, core values into effect by investing responsibly and encouraging views an active approach to corporate responsibility as a genuine responsible business conduct among its portfolio companies.
competitive advantage, that will help maximise long-term returns.
3i Infrastructure aims to be a top performer in corporate responsibility among infrastructure investment companies and Core values a positive influence for sustainable social and environmental practices across its international investment portfolio.
Our core values are to: Specifically, 3i Infrastructure is committed to: be commercial and fair: respect the needs of our shareholders, our suppliers, the local 1.
Human rights community and the businesses in which we invest: Respect the protection of international human rights and avoid maintain our integrity and professionalism: and complicity in human rights violations.
strive for continual improvement and innovation.
Labour workplace rights Uphold the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining: abolish child labour: eliminate forced and compulsory labour: and end employment discrimination.
The environment Take a cautious and responsible approach to the environment: promote compliance with environmental law, improvement in management standards and the sustainable management of natural resources: and help combat climate change by supporting the development of products and services that are environmentally beneficial.
Anti-corruption Avoid corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, upholding compliance standards and integrity and complying with relevant anti-fraud and money-laundering regulations.
The Company will have procedures in place enabling it to comply fully with the Anti-Bribery Act by the start date of 1 July 2011.
The Company sees these aspirations as going beyond corporate good governance and compliance with local and other law.
The policy is not just concerned with doing no harm or ethical business practices, but impinges on issues of wider trust and corporate reputation, which are critically important in the new global climate of public mistrust of the financial sector.
These policies and procedures were designed to provide the Board and the Investment Adviser with a clear framework, as well as the tools, to think about and manage issues relating to corporate responsibility throughout the investment process.
Procedures at the Investment Adviser have been adopted based on a simple corporate responsibility materiality test for all investments, and a requirement for the Board and Investment Adviser to demonstrate, throughout the life of the investment through to exit, that they have taken account of the issues and understand the value opportunities and risks involved.
By encouraging corporate learning and the sharing of good practice, the Board believes this process will Governance be self-reinforcing.
3i Infrastructure plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2011 The Companys investment process involves Dealing with any corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility four key stages: issues which emerge Identifying a in our investment corporate responsibility issue in due diligence may result in 3i Infrastructure Fundraising activity withdrawing, but not necessarily so.
Investments are made using the Companys The Company views corporate responsibility Confidence in the capacity of the own financial resources.
Interest in as both an opportunity and a risk.
management team of the potential investee the degree to which public companies company and their willingness to address and investment companies consider Opportunity issues satisfactorily will be a key environmental, ethical, governance and determinant of whether the Company The Board and the Investment Adviser social issues has been growing among a proceeds with an investment or not.
believe that an active approach to number of investors in public markets.
The relationship of the Company and corporate responsibility has the potential to Investment Adviser with the potential The Company communicates its approach bring a wide variety of business benefits to investee company may mean that issues on corporate responsibility issues to our portfolio companies including: can be resolved and that there is full investors in a variety of ways, including improved efficiency, reduced costs and compliance before the investment is its website, annual report and through lower waste: completed.
Helping to resolve an issue direct contact.
may be an important element of the increased employee, customer and Companys and the Investment Advisers Investment assessment supplier engagement: ability to add value as well as enhance While each investment is considered on its greater access to international markets: the investment opportunity.
own merits, the Investment Adviser has a new market opportunities: Investment Committee and final standard review process for all types of approval Investments are then presented enhanced reputation: investments which aims to identify all of by the Investment Adviser to the Board.
the issues that may affect the Companys greater awareness and management If approval is given, it is usually subject to decision to invest.
Consideration of of risks: and a number of conditions precedent which corporate responsibility issues is embedded may include some relating to corporate a potentially wider pool of buyers for the as a mandatory part of this process.
responsibility issues, for example, a key asset in the event of a sale.
The key steps in the process are: appointment being made, or confirmation For 3i Infrastructure, the opportunity is that a certain process meets a certain Preliminary appraisal from the straightforward: supporting the sustainable standard.
Once all conditions precedent Investment Adviser During which a growth of portfolio companies has the have been met, final approval is given and decision is taken on whether to commit potential to increase their value.
further resource to progress the investment opportunity and place it in formal work 3i Infrastructure operates internationally Risks in progress.
and across a broad range of sectors The most significant corporate responsibility so it is also important that it considers Board and Investment Advisers Partner risks arising from the Companys issues in the context of local and sector review Where the decision is taken to investment activity are likely to relate to expectations.
The full international progress the opportunity after a detailed environmental, ethical, governance and resources of the Investment Adviser will be review by the Board and a group of senior social issues.
Failure to identify or manage leveraged to ensure that local and sector and experienced investment executives in these risks effectively not only has the considerations are taken into account in the the investment advisory team.
A decision is potential to undermine the success of investment process.
also taken at this point as to what further the portfolio companies but also might in-depth analysis and due diligence should The time taken to go through the whole compromise 3i Infrastructures reputation be undertaken.
investment process varies significantly and and that of its Investment Adviser.
depends upon many factors, including Due diligence and negotiation Where Identifying and managing these risks is the nature of the investment and the alongside other commercial due diligence therefore an important part of managing complexity of the issues, as well as the and negotiation an explicit review of risk for 3i Infrastructure.
number and nature of the parties involved.
environmental, ethical, governance and social issues is undertaken by the Investment Adviser for each investment under review.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility report continued Experience suggests that one of the 3i Infrastructure brings a collaborative Sources of expertise fundamental factors for investment success approach to the companies in which it The Company is able to draw upon a wide is the quality of the portfolio company invests.
While the Board and Investment range of sources of internal and external management team.
The approach the Adviser have extensive sector expertise, expertise on corporate responsibility issues.
Company takes to assessing potential and despite the Investment Adviser These include the Investment Adviser itself, investments places considerable emphasis representing the Company on the board its professional services teams, which have on understanding and being comfortable of the investee company, the portfolio specialised knowledge on specific issues, with the management team.
Their approach companys managements knowledge of sectors and markets, as well as its advisers.
to dealing with due diligence on corporate their company and their ability to deliver responsibility issues can be a useful indicator on a plan cannot be matched.
It is the The Investment Advisers scale, of quality.
management who, being closest to the international reach and network also situation, must make most decisions.
provide access to leading international Creating value consultancies on environmental, ethical and An early priority, therefore, is to help social issues for a wide variety of purposes, ensure that the governance of the portfolio Before an investment is made, the Board from compliance to creating value in company is as robust as possible and to and the Investment Adviser agree a clear portfolio companies.
Portfolio companies help support the portfolio companys value creation plan with the board and with themselves are a rich source of knowledge management team and board.
the management team of the potential and through the Investment Advisers investee company who will be responsible The Investment Adviser has dedicated Active Partnership programme and other for delivering the plan.
This will also involve programmes and activities to help build means, experience sharing is encouraged.
an expectation that 3i Infrastructure and the board capacity and capability of the the Investment Adviser will deliver on the investee company.
These include 3i Groups actions they are responsible for in the plan.
Environment Active Partnership programmes and events These may relate to strategic input, such as CEO forums and sector events, As an investment company with no providing specific expertise or providing which are opportunities for the CEOs of employees, governed by a non-executive access to relevant relationships around the our portfolio companies and 3i Group Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no world.
The initial post-investment phase investments to come together.
direct material impact on the environment.
will involve validation and refinement of the These provide an opportunity to learn from, plan.
Such a plan would also include any and share experiences with peers in other environmental, ethical, governance or social Procurement companies either in or outside the same risks or opportunities that were identified sector and country.
3i Infrastructure has developed policies either in due diligence or in the and procedures in relation to services from post-investment analysis.
As far as possible, Realisation Portfolio reviews take place every six the Company will work only with suppliers While the Company is predominantly a very months.
In these reviews the Investment who support its aim to source products long-term investor in its assets, in situations Adviser presents the progress and future responsibly.
3i Infrastructure aims to have where there are strong strategic reasons for plans to the Board.
Any material corporate a collaborative relationship with its service selling an asset or where an attractive offer responsibility issues that were part of the providers and, wherever possible, will work is received it will make pragmatic disposals.
initial plan would be included in this review with its service providers when problems until they are resolved.
In addition, at least or issues arise to help them meet Corporate responsibility plays an important once a year, other corporate responsibility its requirements.
role in every sale process, as the due issues will be considered on the agenda.
diligence and valuation processes of potential buyers, be they trade or financial Transparency buyers, or any other institution, will evaluate 3i Infrastructure wishes to comply with each investments corporate responsibility best market practice in terms of disclosure strategy, systems and performance.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2011
