Betfair people, culture and values The Betfair Group employs over 2,000 people around the world.
In any market in which we operate, were committed to innovation, integrity and responsibility, an ethos which shapes the environment present within all of our places of work.
Betfair is committed to creating a working environment that allows our people to ourish.
We have a passionate and intelligent workforce that has driven the Company on to the success it has achieved to date.
Our varied workforce includes leaders in the elds of sports betting, technology, mobile, marketing and customer operations.
Craig Spencer, User Researcher, UK Prevalent throughout Betfairs employee culture is a Research at Betfair plays a vital determination to put the customer at the heart of everything role, and we have some fantastic we do.
Its the reason why today, we are the Worlds Biggest people that keep developing new Betting Community.
David Wilson, Premium Shelly Thomas, Senior Will Brown, Head of Lynette Gay, Fraud Analyst, Accounts Manager, Ireland User Researcher, UK Commercial Operations, UK Australia Since day one, I have found the I love going out in the eld and One of the things that I love about In my role I enjoy the daily culture at Betfair very enjoyable working directly with our Betfair is the dynamism, enthusiasm challenges and satisfaction felt in and I like the fact the Company has customers.
There is nothing more and knowledge that people bring doing my job well.
I really feel that always done its best to put the insightful than watching them both as individuals and as the my individual contributions are customer first.
helping the company to grow: I am a part of the big picture.
Dena Cianfrocca, Executive Jonathan Crook, Joanna Sheehy, Community Gabriela Ciucanu, QC Engineer, Assistant, Production, US Helpdesk Operator, UK Affairs Executive, UK Romania Why I love my job...
I have made I love working as part of a Betfair Betfair is a fun and energetic place Betfair is a great place to work, great friends here at TVG Betfair helpdesk team that aims to bring the and its great to see our people having a team of many outstanding and I am fortunate enough to work best possible service to its customers.
involved with projects that give so individuals and providing in an industry I love.
I am happy that I work for a dedicated, much back to our local communities.
opportunities for my professional modern and dynamic company career growth.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Angelo Iacono, Sebastian Oros, DB Developer, Laura Owen, Internal Louis Bridger, Commercial Payments Specialist, UK Romania Communications Executive, UK Strategy Manager, UK I like working at Betfair as it is a I enjoy working for Betfair since The working environment is young, Working for a growing, forward young, vibrant and buzzing company.
its a growing, dynamic business, fun and innovative.
There are thinking and disruptive company The working environment is positive with an enjoyable and friendly always initiatives taking place to in such an interesting industry and the company is always looking working environment.
improve the customer offering, is the envy of most of my friends.
for ways to improve and grow.
to engage employees and to generate and foster new ideas.
Natalja Simina, Outbound Keith Inouye, Art Director, US Gareth Hammonds, Richard Hewitt, Head of Agent, UK The best part about my job at Telbet Team Leader, Ireland Mobile Product, UK My everyday job is dealing with TVG Betfair is the team of Ive worked in of ces in a past life Betfair is all about innovation for customers on the phone.
No two forward-thinking individuals were there is no atmosphere and me and as a technologist at heart, customers are exactly the same in working on mobile at Betfair is I work with day in and day out, no fun.
At Betfair, I have a what they want or expect which pretty much as good as it gets.
they foster creativity and make wonderful working environment motivates me to assist and I enjoy my job that more enjoyable.
and great work colleagues to helping them in any way I can.
Linda Hong, Snr Digital Wayne Osborne, Matthew Reid, Helpdesk Kevin Grigsby, VP Programming, US Marketing Manager, US Telbet Team Lead, Ireland Team Leader, Australia I love being a part of a company I like the energy and excitement I love working for Betfair because I feel we have the best product that includes a fast paced that comes from TVGs fast-paced of the vibrant and energetic new available and enjoy working towards environment, is always evolving environment.
Every day enhancing Betfairs reputation and is a fun place to work: all in Betfair brings its different within the betting landscape.
while being surrounded by challenges which makes every like-minded peers.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25
