Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR is built into our management People processes.
Non-executive Board member Fru Hazlitt chairs the CR Committee, which met four times in FY11.
This Committee Engagement of people is critical to business success: an engaged person ensures executive ownership of CR issues.
A central CR department is someone who is involved in, enthusiastic about and committed to work.
manages day-to-day performance, interacting with small CR teams They are in a role that fully utilises their talents and they know the scope which have responsibility for community and environmental of their role and how this relates to the company strategy.
To determine initiatives in all our main of ces.
our Engagement levels the Gallup Q12 engagement survey was conducted for the first time in January 2011 with an 88% participation rate.
To understand, address and improve engagement, teams across the How we do business business have subsequently been working with their direct line managers, collaboratively agreeing action plans to address areas that require attention Our CR Framework see diagram opposite identi es our principal social and improvement.
Surveys will be conducted twice a year, establishing and environmental impacts and highlights the areas we are focusing on to it as our main tool for measuring engagement.
Good Neighbour Customers Taking pride in the communities in which we live and work is at the heart Customer Protection is one of the key pillars of our Customer of how we do business, illustrated by our wide-ranging community Commitment published in June 2011.
We strive to achieve the highest investment.
In FY11 we donated 560,000 to over 110 causes, including levels of player protection through the provision of industry-leading tools 134,000 to the GREaT Foundation.
Sport is at the heart of this activity.
including deposit and loss limits.
Further to this, in 2011 we launched an Cash 4 Clubs, our innovative sports programme, allows us to invest educational site which informs customers about the range of protection directly in grassroots sport.
60 clubs across the UK were supported this tools available to them and where to get help if necessary.
We have also year taking the total investment since inception in 2008 to 142,580 and commissioned two research projects with the National Centre for Social 199 clubs.
This programme will be rolled out in Ireland, Malta and Research and the University of Oxford.
These research projects will give us Australia over the coming year.
a better understanding of customer behaviours with a view to ensuring customers can make informed decisions and that our employees are Other notable partnerships re ect the global nature of our activity, including Charlton Athletic Community Trust, where we support a equipped to intervene when customers are unable to do so.
community football programme in South Africa, Lifecycle in Malta and St. Andrews Resource Centre in Dublin, Ireland.
We are also proud of the We have also developed and re ned a social risk assessment process to number of local initiatives where we get our employees involved directly ensure that customer protection is a key consideration at all stages of the by using their two days volunteering leave.
We aim to use our peoples product and promotion cycle.
skills to make a real impact wherever possible.
Ethical standards Employees play a pivotal role in fundraising for our Charity of the Year.
In FY11 Betfair raised 144,548 for The Anthony Nolan Trust and staff are We continue to lead the industry with regards to sharing information with currently raising 75,000 for the Prostate Cancer Charity, which will be Sports governing bodies having signed an additional five Memoranda of matched by Betfair.
Understanding MoU since the start of 2010, taking the total to 48.
We have also agreed partnerships with the Professional Players Federation Further to our investment in grassroots sport, we have also supported and the British Athletes Commission.
Through collaboration with many of racings charities including the British Racing School, Northern organisations that represent players and athletes, these partnerships seek Racing College and Moorcroft Racehorse Welfare Centre.
We are also to promote education about betting related issues and increase proud to continue our long-standing support for the Injured Jockeys Fund, not only part-funding the jockeys doctor, but the two rehabilitation understanding about how best to protect the integrity of sport.
Ensuring centres for injured jockeys.
that our marketing is accurate, respectful and sensitive is central to our aim of achieving the highest ethical standards.
We are also engaging our suppliers through our Supplier Code of Conduct which pulls together Going forward three strands of business behaviour business conduct, the environment, and labour conditions and human rights.
Over the next financial year we will continue to integrate corporate responsibility best practice into our business by ensuring it is aligned to the business strategy and the needs of our people and is embedded into the performance of the business.
Playing with con dence We strive to achieve the highest levels of player protection by providing industry-leading tools including deposit and loss limits.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Integrating social and environmental concerns into the way we work Respecting local rules and Achieving the highest levels of regulations player protection and promotion of responsible gambling Creating innovative community partnerships by using our Delivering customer service peoples skills to nd solutions beyond expectation Reducing environmental impact Industry leading in customer privacy and data protection Investing in sport at all levels CUSTOMERS GOOD Ensuring fairness NEIGHBOUR to our customers Taking pride in the communities in which we live and work HOW WE DO BUSINESS ETHICAL PEOPLE STANDARDS Ensuring our people Acting with integrity to are inspired, engaged achieve the highest and developed ethical standards Upholding a Marketing Code Using employee engagement as of Ethics the foundation for creating an inclusive and inspiring workplace Bringing transpar ency to the sports betting market Ensuring on-time supplier payments and ethical supply chain management Cash 4 Clubs Taking to the water Skydiving for The Anthony Marathon running for the Investing in grassroots sport.
Dragonboat racing to raise money Nolan Trust Prostate Cancer Charity for The Anthony Nolan Trust.
Employees fundraising for Employees fundraising for Betfairs Charity of the Year.
Betfairs Charity of the Year.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
