Corporate Responsibility Valuing our relationships Amlin aims to build a sustainable business through the consistent application of our values in relationships with shareholders, employees, clients and other stakeholders.
We seek to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate, placing integrity and professional excellence at the heart of our business practice.
Charles Philipps, Chief Executive through national and regional networks.
We a regular online magazine and via a quarterly Our core values closely manage these key relationships within Consultation Forum for UK employees and a Professional excellence Works Council representing the ACI employees.
each business, maintaining an open dialogue Integrity Since the Groups combined workforce now and sharing data with the aim of improving our exceeds 1,000 in more than four European Leadership service to cedants and insureds.
Additionally, countries, we are setting up a Group-wide we receive independent feedback through Superior performance employee representative group.
We undertake industry surveys such as the London Market Teamwork regular employee opinion surveys, the next Claims Study pp28-29.
Focus on sustainability of which is planned for mid-2012.
Amlin Corporate Insurance is a member of the Amlin seeks to align employee interests further Dutch Insurance Association Exchange VNAB by awarding shares to all eligible employees Our Vision to be the reference point for which accounted for 1,019 billion of industrial under the Share Incentive Plan.
This annual quality in each of our markets is underpinned and commercial gross written premium in 2010. award is subject to the Companys overall by a set of core values which both determine The insurers and brokers within VNAB operate in performance and in April 2011 an award was and reflect the way in which all employees of accordance with the so-called Beursprinciples made to the value of 1,000.
At 31 December the Amlin Group are expected to engage with and the majority of ACIs business is written 2011, 19.4% of employees had a stake in our stakeholders, both internal and external under this code.
Executive Vice President, Company equity valued in excess of 10,000. to the business.
It is Amlins policy to conduct Michiel Vervliet is Chairman of the insurer all aspects of its business in an honest, open and membership and ACI underwriters play an active The good conduct of employees in their ethical manner.
role in various technical subgroups.
management of business relationships and with colleagues is critical to creating pride in the Our corporate responsibility activity related to We recognise the potential conflicts inherent in Company and to our aspiration to be a socially Marketplace and Employees is reported to the the traditional broker compensation model and responsible company.
Amlins core values are an CEO and thence the Board.
Activities relating attempt to manage these appropriately.
We have important part of the Code of Conduct and during to Charity & Community and the Environment adopted a Broker Remuneration Policy to guide 2011, further work was undertaken to embed our are reported through the Corporate Advisory all areas of the business in this sensitive area.
culture and values across the enlarged Group.
Panel to the CEO, who reports to the Board.
2011 saw the introduction of the Bribery Act Diversity 2010 and increased scrutiny of the financial Marketplace Amlin pursues a policy of diversity, be that services sector as a whole.
We have taken Amlin remains one of the largest participants of skills, experience, nationality or gender and in the opportunity to review and where necessary, in the Lloyds market, although we sourced accordance with the Groups equal opportunities improve our policies and standards relating only 61% of our 2011 premium in the market.
We are committed to the benefits of a to professional conduct and client service.
diversified workforce, reflected in most levels We value the opportunities presented through In 2010, Amlin became the first London market of staff.
This will be monitored as efforts are made Lloyds worldwide network and during 2011, insurer to achieve Corporate Chartered Insurer to widen diversification at senior level, including formed a new terrorism consortium of agents status.
All 420 frontline underwriting and claims increasing the number of female members of the based in Lloyds Asia, Singapore.
Amlin staff from Amlin London and Amlin UK were senior team both by promotion and recruitment professionals participate in a number of market included in this submission.
working groups involved in the conduct and development of the market.
Employees Amlin currently has a balance of skills and Amlins Vision includes being recognised as the diversity on the Board, though there is only one We continued to focus during 2011 on the place to work, with staff who understand our female director.
It is our aspiration that by the development of our non-Lloyds European end of 2015, 20% of the Board should be made strategy and their role in delivering and exceeding platforms, Amlin Corporate Insurance pp.
An important element in achieving this and Amlin Re Europe pp.
39. is being a responsible employer, operating first class employment practices and actively engaging Broker relationships The majority of Amlins business is broker with our employees pp48-49.
We encourage generated, both within the Lloyds market and employee engagement through the intranet, 78 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Community for Insurance Studies.
Scholarship recipients The frequency and severity of 2011 catastrophes worked with the Company during college breaks have also highlighted the potential effects In the UK and senior Amlin executives supported the of systemic risk from modelling and we are Amlins UK charity and community activities ABICEA through board, committee, interview exploring a potential research partnership are guided and facilitated by a panel which panel and mentoring panel membership.
meets at least quarterly and comprises senior representatives from each UK business area.
Amlin Singapore has sponsored the General We measure our annual carbon footprint In 2011, we broadened our support to UK Insurance Associations Global Internship including data from all Group companies over charities with a focus on education and health.
Programme from the outset and provides which financial control was exercised and for Firstly, we continued to fund a Clinical Nurse speakers for their Talent Outreach Project.
whom financial results were published in that Specialist at Imperial College Healthcare NHS In 2011, the business sponsored the Welfare year.
We include employee commuting, waste Trust for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Secondly, Handicap Association annual lunch.
recycling and water usage to give a full picture we again sponsored the Art for Youth London sale of our corporate impact.
Amlins 2010 footprint at the Royal College of Art, generating 88,000 was 5.28 tonnes per employee inclusive Environment profit for UK Youth in 2011 and taking the total of these factors 2009: 5.64 or 3.56 tonnes Underwriting catastrophe risk is a core funds raised from this event to over 1 million.
if compared with the scope of most FTSE part of our business and 2011 saw We built on this relationship by initiating the calculations 2009: 4.57. unprecedented losses from a range of weather Amlin Platinum Programme, which funds ten related events.
Our principal risks and We seek to identify new opportunities to candidates selected by UK Youth from across uncertainties are listed earlier in this report reduce or contain energy and resource usage.
the country to undertake vocational training pp46, together with controls, mitigation In 2011 we introduced electronic boardpacks for for a variety of local charities.
Thirdly, we enabled strategies and accountabilities.
Amlin also the majority of boards, committees and for the 120 pupils from an inner London school to evaluates the risks and opportunities presented distribution of management information, together participate in a one week adventure run by the by climate change through the Climate with iPads for senior managers across the Group.
Our Chief Executive serves Change & Environmental Panel, which This should over time reduce our paper and as a trustee of this charity.
is composed of senior underwriters, print consumption.
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and meets In 2011, ten Amlin managers delivered our at least quarterly.
third Community Action Learning project at Reporting Newlands Bishop Farm, near Solihull.
The farm Amlins CEO is a member of the Geneva Amlin has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK is run as a commercial enterprise and offers Association and participates in their discussions.
We have participated in people with learning difficulties the opportunity The objectives of the Associations climate-linked the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2007 and to gain practical skills with which to work in the research have been to identify and analyse issues contribute to the ClimateWise submission by the local community centre.
This unique programme of specific relevance to the insurance industry, Lloyds market, which was awarded gold standard within the Lloyds market again met our such as the likely range of future claims costs, rating by the  objectives, both in terms of community benefit and the political, educational and social Independent Review.
and as a management development opportunity.
In April 2011 Deloitte LLP provided ISAE3000 We have elected to find a new community partner In 2011 Amlin continued to engage with assurance on the compilation of our 2010 carbon for 2012, probably within Europe.
the Risk Predication Initiative organised by the footprint data.
Our 2011 carbon footprint will be Our annual charity go-karting event in July raised Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences, notably in publicly available through the Carbon Disclosure over 40,000 for several Amlin charities.
Amlin research in forecasting extreme weather events.
Project and on our website in May.
UK, our Chelmsford-based commercial insurance business, has supported local charity Farleigh Carbon Footprint Hospice for several years, raising a total of GHG 2010 2009 Protocol Total CO Total CO 2 2 94,559 by 31 December 2011.
Scope Emissions source tonnes tonnes 1 Gas 242 127 Other locations 1 Direct Fleet Emmissions 44 61 Philanthropy is an important part of corporate 2 Electricity 3037 2276 life in Bermuda and Amlin Bermuda plays an active role in the local community.
The corporate 3 Water 6 3 giving programme focuses on organisations 3 Waste 77 29 involved in youth, education and sport.
2011 3 Business Travel Air 1413 1112 beneficiaries from the $100,000 budget included 3 Business Travel Other 132 35 WindReach, Bermuda Sloop Foundation, 3 Employee Commuting 2277 809 Outward Bound Bermuda and the Bermuda Lawn Total carbon footprint 7228 4452 Tennis Association.
Employees employees only as at 31 Dec 1368 790 CO per employee 5.28 5.64 Amlins scholarship programme for Bermudian 2 students continued in 2011, with $75,000 Total CO per employee excluding commuting, waste and water 3.56 4.57 2 these are generally included in the majority of FTSE company environmental audits but of grants offered through the Association of not in CO footprint.
2 Bermuda International Companies Education CO equivalent 2 Awards ABICEA and The Bermuda Foundation 79
