Business review People In times of financial uncer tainty and market turbulence the stability and quality of our team is more than ever a key competitive advantage.
During a challenging year, Amlin staff demonstrated their professionalism in responding to client needs and we continued to benefit from our ability to attract high calibre talent.
Mark Farrow, Human Resources Director relationships is a key strength of our team and Key performance indicators Organisational development During 2011 we further developed the our objective remains to maintain voluntary Voluntary staff turnover organisation of the Group to support turnover, excluding retirements, of our senior organic growth and acquisitions.
To enable underwriters below 10% per annum and our 5.8% the Group Executive to focus on the overall employee turnover below 15%.
During 2010: 5.2% management of the enlarged Group, 2011, voluntary turnover of senior underwriters Amlin London was fully devolved from was 2.7% with overall staff turnover being Voluntary senior underwriter turnover the Corporate Centre and restructured 5.8%, as shown in the table opposite.
Our to provide its own support infrastructure.
senior underwriters, including those joining 2.7% the Group in 2011, have on average 23 years The capabilities of the Corporate Centre 2010: 3.7% experience in the insurance industry and an were extended with the creation of a average of nine years service with the Amlin Group Underwriting function to oversee Group, as shown in the table opposite.
The principal objective of this new function is to support We continued to invest in broadening our the underwriting culture and philosophy underwriting capabilities, with several senior combined with high standards of risk underwriters joining Amlin during the year.
management which have contributed to Amlins success, and to ensure that similar Remuneration and benefits standards are applied to new ventures and At the start of 2011 a new variable pay system, acquisitions as the Group continues to expand.
supported by a new approach to performance In March 2011, we appointed a Head of Group management, was introduced to ACI.
We Underwriting and by the year end, a team of developed a toolkit for all ACI employees four people was in place.
regarding target setting and appraisals and managers received comprehensive training ACI remained a major focus with a number of and guidance on how to manage the new senior appointments, including Kim Hvirgel as approach.
This proved a success during Chief Executive on 1 June and Reijer Groenveld the year, as evidenced by a greater focus as Chief Financial Officer in December.
ACIs on performance management by ACI line business also benefited from management managers.
Importantly, this contributed support from seconded Amlin staff in the UK.
to further aligning ACIs culture and values The acquisitions of J R Clare and Lead Yacht with those of Amlin.
Underwriters early in 2011 brought an We continued to adapt the benefits offered additional 19 staff into Amlin UK and seven to Amlin employees in the light of legislative into Amlin London respectively.
During the and regulatory changes, for example, in year Amlin Re Europe continued to selectively making changes to contracts and to reward recruit staff in line with its business plan to schemes to reflect the removal of the default reach a total of 37 at the year end.
HMRC confirmed their formal approval of the Amlin Salary Staff development and retention Sacrifice Scheme, Pension Advantage at the Retention of Amlins team of skilled and end of March.
This is a facility which provides experienced underwriters, many of whom have been with Amlin for more than 15 years, an opportunity for employees to save for their remained a priority.
Continuity of business pension in the most tax efficient way.
48 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Employee turnover and service at 31 December 2011 Senior Other Underwriting Claims Claims Operational Corporate underwriters underwriters support staff support Operational support centre Total Turnover 5.4% 2.2% 13.3% 0.0% 6.5% 21.5% 10.3% 13.5% 8.6% Voluntary turnover 2.7% 2.2% 12.4% 0.0% 4.7% 16.6% 8.9% 10.9% 5.8% Mean age of employees years 45.9 38.9 37.9 44.5 36.6 38.3 37.7 38.0 38.7 Mean service of employees years 9.1 5.9 6.2 9.6 6.0 4.8 5.0 4.9 6.2 operational areas such as risk management, In 2011 Amlin became an authorised training Developing new talent investments and claims.
This was employer for the Institute of Chartered Amlins ambition to be the place to work supplemented by regular development Accountants in England & Wales ICAEW.
This in the market is a key part of the Amlin interventions to build their knowledge is in addition to ACCA and CIMA accreditations.
Our ability to attract, develop and of insurance and all graduates studied retain talent is key to realising this vision During the year, Amlin partnered with the for the professional qualification of Associate and to the long term sustainability of the Institute of Risk Management, a leading of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Therefore, alongside our focus on international enterprise risk management ACI also has a two-year rotational Young retaining existing experienced employees education body, to support the launch of the Professionals Programme with eight we recognise the importance of investing Institutes new Risk Management in Financial graduates participating in 2011. for the future, through the development Services certificate qualification.
The course, of people within the business.
We continue A new Group wide Graduate Development which is focused on insurance and retail to provide management development Programme, which will provide an improved banking, requires students to work in their own training through our established partnerships and more integrated proposition, with time using online resources over a nine month with Roffey Park, Coverdale and other additional placements in ACI, Amlin Re period to secure this professional qualification.
During 2011, 76 Amlin Europe, Amlin Bermuda and the Lloyds employees benefited from training provided Separately, an Amlin Risk Management market was developed during the year for through these programmes.
workshop won the Best Risk Training implementation in 2012.
Programme Award at the 2011 Strategic Our inaugural Amlin London Graduate RISK European Risk Management Awards.
Development Programme, which Professional excellence The judges described the programme as commenced in January 2010, reached a We continue to support staff in studying exceptional in design.
This programme successful conclusion at the end of 2011 for professional qualifications, including is a joint venture between Amlin and external with the placement of the four graduates the Associate of the Chartered Insurance training provider MDA.
in permanent roles in our cargo, energy Institute and a range of actuarial, accounting, and reinsurance businesses.
While taking risk management and human resources In addition to our focus on professional part in the programme the graduates had qualifications.
There were 148 staff studying qualifications, the Amlin Academy continues the opportunity to rotate through eight across all these categories in 2011, and 16 to offer high quality management, personal areas within Amlin London, giving them staff achieved professional qualifications and skills development programmes that aim an insight into underwriting as well as other during the year.
to build on the existing skills of our staff.
