Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises the importance of corporate social improvement in corporate governance practices.
In many responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, jurisdictions, and to the extent consistent with our fiduciary duty accountability and integrity, and believes that these principles are to our clients, we exercise our voting rights as a means to signal fundamental to the Groups operations.
The Group continues to our views to Company management.
We have developed detailed monitor developments in all relevant areas of CSR, including guidelines to guide our voting decisions, but will, as appropriate, environmental management, employees, health and safety, suppliers consider resolutions on a case-by-case basis taking into account all and the community to ensure that it meets best practice and sees available information.
CSR as a continually evolving process.
Ashmores special situations business involves its funds taking significant controlling stakes in investee companies and in such Investment circumstances Ashmore is in a position to positively engage with the The Group believes that its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy management of these companies.
In many cases Ashmore believes provider of investment services is essential to its core purpose of it to be beneficial to its investors to be proactive in promoting the helping its clients to build their financial security.
Ashmore seeks Ashmore brand locally by improving the livelihoods of the employees to establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients in the companies where the Group has a controlling stake.
The Group believes this to be a fundamental Ashmore aims to avoid investing in companies that do not: pre-requisite for the growth of the business.
respect human rights: and Ashmores Board of Directors seeks to maintain a strong corporate culture employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the comply with local environmental, ethical or social legislation.
conduct of the firms activities, compliance with both the letter and Ashmore does not invest in companies that manufacture or the spirit of relevant laws and regulations, and standards of good trade arms.
market practice in all jurisdictions where the firms business is carried out.
The Boards aim is to enable Ashmore to demonstrate Ashmore also aims to ensure that any investments which it makes that the firm is fit and proper to undertake its business, to comply with the relevant industry standards and best practice, treat safeguard the legitimate interests of Ashmore clients and protect their employees fairly, have active community programmes and Ashmores reputation.
operate with sensitivity to the environment.
Ashmore has made investments in a number of renewable energy projects in different Ashmore believes that social, ethical and environmental SEE criteria countries including hydro-electricity, geothermal energy and tend to be focused primarily on equity investing because of the sugar-based ethanol production, which reflect its overall approach influence which shareholder interests are able to exert on the to combining ethical investing with sound business practice on management of a particular company.
In May 2011 Ashmore behalf of clients.
acquired majority ownership of Emerging Markets Management LLC, a long established US-based investment management firm Additionally, Ashmore funds and segregated accounts each focusing entirely on the emerging markets public equities theme.
have specific investment mandates which set out the parameters AshmoreEMM believes that the way in which companies manage for investment which may include requirements to screen for their relations with stakeholders can have an impact on business geographic, sector and stock-specific restrictions.
These stakeholders encompass employees, local restrictions may include securities which meet clients own communities, wider society, governments, supply chains, customers CSR criteria.
There is a wide range of environmental The majority of our assets continue to be invested in either external and social issues which could be relevant for a company depending debt the majority of which is sovereign or local currencies.
In the on the industry in which it operates and its specific business profile.
case of external debt investments, our ability to have an influence Environmental and social issues can become new sources of risk is generally limited to a decision whether or not to invest, however, or opportunity for companies, and a companys ability to respond at a country level we believe that we are able to exert an influence to these issues can therefore act as an early signal of long-term through dialogue with governments and central banks.
To the extent practicable, AshmoreEMM monitors the environmental, social and corporate governance performance Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies with the of the companies in which they invest through ongoing company principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described separately on visits and other information channels.
Generally, companies disclose the Ashmore website at: www.
corporate governance practices through corporate policies, stock market listings for example, Brazil has a separate category for The Ashmore Foundation companies committed to state of the art corporate governance Consistent with the Groups commitment to responsible corporate practices, and market press releases.
They disclose environmental citizenship, the Ashmore Foundation was created in 2008 and is and social practices in annual reports and other reports to investors.
funded by personal financial contributions from employees of the Ashmore believes that good corporate governance helps to align the Group.
The Foundation reflects Ashmores overall philosophy that interests of Company management with those of its shareholders.
we can and should make a positive difference in communities Where possible, we seek to maintain constructive dialogue with in which Ashmore operates, in countries which contribute to Company management.
We consider whether companies have Ashmores income and profitability.
The Foundation therefore corporate governance frameworks that are in line with applicable seeks to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within the country codes and serve shareholder interests.
Views on corporate emerging markets in order to enhance human welfare, opportunities governance do not constrain investment decisions, however: often and capabilities, particularly for those that are vulnerable and at the the best investments can be in companies where we anticipate an lower end of the socio-economic spectrum.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Corporate social responsibility continued The Foundations grant-making policy is wide-ranging but has Health and Safety a particular focus on education and healthcare, the former in The Group has in place a global health and safety policy which can particular being seen as the best way to help the long-term be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
The aim of this self-development of emerging markets countries.
The Foundation policy is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy is also interested in supporting sustainable livelihoods and social working environment.
The Group is committed to adhering to enterprise as a method of reducing poverty in a manner that the high standards of health and safety set out by its policies and empowers people to help themselves.
procedures and to providing training as necessary.
Regular updates on the activities of The Foundation are published Environment on The Ashmore Foundation section of our website at As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited direct impact www.
com upon the environment and there are few environmental risks associated with the Groups activities.
Ashmore moved into its Employees premises at 61 Aldwych, London in May 2008 and occupies a At year end Ashmore employed 246 people in eleven countries single floor of approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine storey worldwide.
Ashmores people have always been its most important multi-tenanted building.
Water and gas supplied into the building asset, at the heart of everything it does.
Ashmore has many talented are metered centrally by the building management and costs people and it remains a priority to develop, manage and retain apportioned to each tenant pro-rata according to floor occupancy.
this talent in order to deliver the potential of the organisation.
Ashmore wants to be an employer which the most talented people As part of its ongoing commitment to the environment, Ashmore aspire to join wherever it operates.
throughout its operations has adopted policies and programmes to promote energy conservation and the avoidance of waste through Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as a number of initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, glass and practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which it is other waste and the use of green energy.
Ashmore also recognises the diverse needs of its employees separately monitored by floor with renewable energy accounting in managing the responsibilities of their work and personal lives, for a minimum of 10 per cent of supply.
Energy-efficient lighting and believes that achieving an effective balance in these areas is is installed in the building with sensors which turn lights off when beneficial to both the Company and the individual.
The building has received an Energy Ashmore encourages employees to act ethically and to clearly Performance Certificate with an Asset Rating of 98.
Utilities are uphold the standards of practice which its clients have come to not monitored by the building management in terms of carbon expect.
It also means ensuring that its employees understand the emissions as no accurate data is available on the consumptive quality strategic aims and objectives of the Group and are clear about their of each item.
The registration and reporting obligations under the role in achieving them.
Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficient Scheme do not apply to the Company.
The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key to the future success of the business and adopts a practice of Ashmore endeavours to make maximum use of available technology keeping employees informed on significant matters affecting them, such as video conferencing: however, its business model as an via email and in meetings arranged for the purpose.
The Group has investor in emerging markets inevitably requires that its investment consistently operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these corporate and individual performance.
countries to assess and monitor opportunities.
The Group is also committed to following good practice in Ashmore provides obsolescent computers to Computer Aid employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting International Computer Aid, a UK registered charity that aims and retaining staff.
The Group promotes the importance of high to reduce poverty through practical ICT solutions, and has in place ethical standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to recycling programmes for waste paper, photocopier toners and voice any concerns they may have, either direct with management other disposable materials.
or on a confidential basis via the whistle-blowing process.
Ashmore has published a separate corporate responsibility report which can be found on its website at www.
Equal opportunities By order of the Board The Group is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with dignity and respect.
This commitment is reflected in the Staff Handbook that all employees receive on joining.
Michael Perman Company Secretary The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.
12 September 2011 It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be treated less favourably on the grounds of their age, sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, nationality or marital status or on the grounds of disability.
This policy applies, without limitation, to promotion, training, placement, transfer, dismissal, remuneration, grievance and disciplinary procedures and decisions.
This policy also applies to persons from outside the workplace and the treatment of contract workers.
36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
