148 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries Audit Committee financial experts through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on The Board has determined that Russell Walls, Richard Goeltz, the principle of home country control, which makes the home Michael Hawker and Euleen Goh all qualify as Audit Committee country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with financial experts within the meaning of Item 16A of Form 20-F, all applicable regulation.
and that Russell Walls, Richard Goeltz, Michael Hawker and Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services Euleen Goh are all independent as defined by the Securities and industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU, include: Exchange Commission rules and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards.
Third Life and Non-Life Directives These directives implemented the home country control principle Code of ethics for life and non-life insurance business in the mid-1990s and The Company has adopted a code of ethics for its senior placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, actuarial management, including the Board, the Group Executive reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance issues on Committee and the group chief accounting officer as required by the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed to conduct the provisions of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 insurance business in one member state may rely on its home and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no amendments country regulation to passport into all other member states to to, or waivers from, the code of ethics relating to any of those conduct business without having to be separately licensed in officers.
The code of ethics was filed on 7 October 2009 as an each.
The general exception is selling activity which continues exhibit to our Form 20-F registration document.
to be regulated by the state in which the sale takes place.
Regulation Insurance Groups Directive IGD The IGD requires member states to introduce the following Compliance In both our insurance and fund management businesses, matters measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection visits or which are part of a group: other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and resolution with An adjustment margin to the solvency calculation in relation industry regulators.
The Group needs to ensure that procedures to participating interests in other insurance undertakings in are in place to address any regulatory concerns, and that such order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same procedures are properly planned, managed and resourced.
regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, with progress An additional parent undertaking solvency margin calculation analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a timely manner.
above, to be applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
Overview of regulation as it affects our business The introduction of new solo supervision requirements, Our principal insurance and fund management operations are including rules as to internal control within the insurance in the UK, Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region.
undertaking regarding the production of information We are therefore subject to financial services regulation and relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of local regulatory supervision in all these areas, as individually information within the group and the supervision of intracovered below.
As the Groups parent company is based in the Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between UK, both EU legislation and the rules of the FSA can impact competent regulatory authorities of member states.
Regulators supervising the Group co-ordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
Since 31 December 2006, the group capital resources requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation The European Union mentioned above has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes a In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU requirement to maintain the group capital resources, rather member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws operating under FSA rules.
and regulations of the EU member state in which they are based, but are also affected by higher level EU legislation, Reinsurance Directive which will continue to have a significant influence on the Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all legislative environment in the UK and other EU markets.
reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict implemented into local national legislation within each EU requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU member country.
These directives set minimum standards for through the single market passport process.
national legislatures to meet, with each legislature able to decide how they should be implemented.
National governments may not Distance Marketing Directive Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are pass laws which fail to meet the minimum standards set out in a directive, but are generally free to impose legal requirements required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in order to protect consumers by: which go beyond those required.
Directives are written at a fairly high level, with more detail being provided at national level setting minimum standards for information that must be provided to consumers before entering into a financial through legislation developed in accordance with the local legal system.
Even greater detail may be imposed through the rules services contract by distance means: and for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period and regulations of national regulators, and for financial services businesses these rules can be extensive.
in which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 149 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Insurance Mediation Directive Future EU developments This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: The ESAs came into force in January 2011 and have powers ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have to make binding rules and drive supervisory consistency and been registered on the basis of a minimum set of convergence through a single rule book.
Their involvement in the professional and financial requirements: colleges of supervisors for cross-border financial institutions, ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate together with broader changes being progressed within Europe in other member states by availing themselves of the relating to financial conglomerates, signals a move towards more freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch: and focused and intrusive group supervision.
impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD specified minimum information to potential customers.
is due to come into force in July 2013 and will impact the Aviva Investors group in its capacity as an AIF manager and distributor.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID The implementing measures, which will provide a fuller MiFID, which superseded the earlier Investment Services Directive, understanding of the impact, are currently being drafted builds on the home country control principle, extending the range by the EC.
of core investment services and activities that may be passported There are a number of European dossiers that are expected from one member state to another, clarifying the allocation of to progress during 2012, including the European Commissions responsibilities between home and host country jurisdictions, and Consumer Agenda, completion of its work on Packaged Retail introducing greater harmonisation governing the organisation Investment Products PRIPs to introduce common product and conduct of business of investment firms.
disclosure standards and sales conduct rules, completion of its review of the Insurance Mediation Directive IMD and Markets Solvency II in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID, implementation of The agreed Solvency II Level 1 Directive was published in the European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR that will November 2009.
Solvency II represents a fundamental change introduce central clearing for standard Over the Counter OTC in European regulation and will result in a more sophisticated derivatives, a review of the Directive for Institutions of economic risk-based capital approach.
Its objectives are to Occupational Retirement Provisions IORP that sets rules for establish a solvency system that is better aligned to the true risks occupational pension schemes, and completion of the technical of insurers, and aims to enable supervisors to protect policyholder standards by the European Securities and Markets Authority interests as effectively as possible in accordance with common ESMA for the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive principles across the EU.
AIFMD that will introduce a regime governing the marketing Since approval, the focus has been on developing the of alternative investments to EU investors.
technical standards and requirements necessary to determine how the directive will be applied in practice, and expected amendments to the Solvency II Directive Omnibus II Directive following the creation of the new European Supervisory Authorities ESAs in September 2010.
It is still not clear when these developments, including the implementation requirements, will become legislation.
One of the new ESAs, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA, replaced CEIOPS on 1 January 2011.
Proposed amendments to the Solvency II Directive were published in January 2011, giving power to EIOPA to issue binding guidance standards, and delay implementation of Solvency II.
Solvency II is currently expected to apply to insurers from 1 January 2014.
This highlights the need for continued and engaged industry participation.
Aviva continues to actively participate, through the key European industry working groups, who provide the voice of the industry, in ongoing discussions in Brussels.
150 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 United Kingdom which operate on a Group basis will be taken into account in The Financial Services Authority determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys systems and In the UK, the FSA is currently the single regulator for those controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is therefore individuals and firms conducting defined regulated activities in the subject to scrutiny and challenge by the FSA.
The FSA has the authority to make rules The FSA regulates the acquisition and increase of control over and issue guidance, taking into account relevant EU directives, in Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire relation to a wide sphere of activity encompassing the governance control of, or increase control over certain thresholds of, an of the conduct of business by, and the prudential supervision of, Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent of the FSA.
The individuals and firms authorised by the FSA to conduct such Authorised Firm must also inform the FSA of any such proposed business Authorised Persons or Authorised Firms.
In considering whether to grant or Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA no withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, person may carry on, or purport to carry on, a regulated activity the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and by way of business in the UK unless he is an Authorised Person or proper person and that the interests of consumers would not an exempt person.
A firm granted permission by the FSA to carry be threatened by this acquisition or increase of control.
on regulated activities becomes an Authorised Person for the Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the acquirer: purposes of FSMA.
Regulated activities are prescribed in the holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance FSMA Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include banking, intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that insurance and investment business, stakeholder pension firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or schemes, insurance mediation and certain mortgage mediation is able to exercise significant influence over the management and lending activities.
of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to conduct Increases in control require the consent of the FSA when they that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
Authorised reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% of the shares or voting Firms must also operate in accordance with the FSAs Principles power of the firm or its parent.
These are 11 high-level principles for conducting In order to determine whether a person or a group of persons financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings shares or adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and voting rights of the person and any other person acting in communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair concert, if any, are aggregated.
FSA conduct of business rules The FSA regime is based on the principle that firms should The FSAs Conduct of Business COB and Insurance: Conduct of have effective systems and controls, including robust risk Business ICOB Rules apply to every Authorised Firm carrying on management, which are appropriate to the size, complexity relevant regulated activities, and regulate the day-to-day conduct and diversity of their business.
of business standards to be observed by all Authorised Persons in The FSAs regulation of the Group carrying out regulated activities.
A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are directly authorised The COB and ICOB Rules are principle based, and the scope and regulated by the FSA, including our insurance companies and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will e. g. the UK Life and UK General Insurance companies, asset vary according to the scope of its business and range of the managers Aviva Investors and intermediaries UK Healthcare.
Generally speaking, however, the Aviva plc, although not directly authorised by the FSA, does obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB and ICOB itself come within the scope of some regulation as the ultimate Rules will include the need to classify its clients according to their insurance holding company in the Group.
level of sophistication, provide them with information about the As Aviva is a UK-based group, the FSA has the responsibility Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product disclosures of acting as lead regulatory i. e. the cross-sector supervisory including fee and remuneration arrangements, ensure that co-ordinator for the Group within the EU.
promotional material which it produces is clear, fair and not misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain products, Approved persons and controllers control the range and scope of advice given, manage conflicts The FSA places great emphasis on the principle of senior of interest, report appropriately to its clients and provide certain management responsibility.
The directors of, and senior managers protections in relation to client assets.
carrying out FSA-defined controlled function roles in, any of the Groups regulated entities are individually registered with the FSA Capital and solvency rules for insurers under the Approved Person regime, and can be held directly The FSA rules require that a UK insurer including those within the accountable to the FSA for control failings in those entities.
Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the Minimum A number of senior managers at Group level have also been Capital Requirement MCR.
Insurers with with-profits liabilities registered as Approved Persons for the regulated subsidiaries, of more than 500 million which is the case with Avivas witheven though they are neither directors nor senior managers of profits fund must hold capital equal to the higher of MCR and these firms.
This recognises that these managers exert significant the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended influence over the regulated subsidiaries, because they are to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a withresponsible for key parts of the Groups control framework on profits insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly which the regulated subsidiaries place reliance.
equivalent to the previous required minimum margin, and satisfies The FSA regulates from a legal entity perspective, even the minimum EU standards.
though Aviva tends to operate within Regions by Business Unit.
However, the FSA also expects that Avivas regulated subsidiaries operate within an overall framework of Group governance and controls.
Its rules expressly provide that any systems and controls Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 151 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two of the business models, consumer strategy and products separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial of the highest impact retail firms: resources requirements, which the FSA refers to as the twin maintaining pressure on firms to treat customers fairly: peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: playing a full role as an international leader in financial the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves regulation: and plus the long-term insurance capital requirement the Solvency II, which remains central to our engagement with LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and the FSA as the industry and the regulator prepare for the a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers application of this new regulatory regime.
expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its own a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
national regulator s. However, overseas operations are also within the remit of the FSA to the extent they have an interest All insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital Assessment in the systems and controls by which the Group manages its ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to back their overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial shocks business.
If the FSA decides that the final ICA amount is arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance The FSA monitors the strategy and performance of the ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a requirement on Groups international businesses through its programme of the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
regular meetings and thematic reviews.
The FSA aims to play a leading role in the development of Day-to-day supervision both EU and international regulation.
It is, in particular, at the The FSA takes a risk-based approach to its regulatory activity, vanguard of the movement towards risk-based insurance concentrating its resources on those firms and activities which it regulation.
assesses pose the greatest potential threats to its four statutory The FSA continues to place weight on the Treating objectives of: Customers Fairly principle.
maintaining confidence in the UK financial system: contributing to the protection and enhancement of stability Intervention and enforcement of the UK financial system: The FSA has extensive powers to investigate and intervene in the securing the appropriate degree of protection for affairs of Authorised Firms and is obliged to monitor compliance consumers: and with the requirements imposed by, and to enforce the provisions reducing the extent to which it is possible for a regulated of, FSMA related to secondary legislation and the rules made business to be used for a purpose connected with thereunder.
The FSAs enforcement powers, which may be exercised against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, include Given our size and our share of the UK retail market, a major public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in serious cases, issue within our business which causes concern for the FSA the variation or revocation of permission to carry on regulated may have a significant impact on these objectives.
activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The FSA may also vary The FSA therefore maintains a close and continuous or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to protect the interests relationship with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva of consumers or potential consumers if the Authorised Firm has conducted by a dedicated team within its Insurance Division.
In not engaged in regulated activity for 12 months, or if it is failing practice, this means that a wide range of Group, Regional and UK to meet the threshold conditions for authorisation.
The FSA has Business Unit senior managers have regular scheduled meetings further powers to obtain injunctions against Authorised Persons with the FSA, and other meetings and discussions on specific and to impose or seek restitution orders where consumers have issues take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to weekly or suffered loss.
even daily FSA interaction at UK Region, Business Unit and Group In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FSA level, and the sharing of detailed information about the Group.
has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA The FSA also periodically conducts a formal Advanced Riskand insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act 1993, Responsive Operating framework ARROW review of Aviva and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The FSAs stated to assess the level of risk that the Group poses to each of the policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases.
The last full risk assessment was conducted in The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS 2009 and an up-to-date risk assessment, which commenced in The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small the third quarter of 2011, is currently in progress.
businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the Areas of potential risk or weakness where the FSA particularly Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those requires Aviva to focus attention are formally set out in a Risk claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of Mitigation Plan RMP, with both risk assessment and RMP issues business.
Under a new funding system that started on 1 April up-dated on an ongoing basis between each ARROW review.
2008, for the purposes of funding FSCS compensation costs, The FSA has highlighted in its 2011 Business Plan that its key the FSCS levy is split into five broad classes: focus area for 2011 2012 would be: Deposits: preparing for transition to the new supervisory authorities Long-term insurance and pensions: structure, to become effective in 2013: General insurance: continuing to ensure firms are soundly run, with effective Investments: and risk management in place, through close scrutiny of Home finance.
corporate governance, financial reporting, remuneration arrangements, recovery and resolution plans, and firms With the exception of the deposits class, each broad class is ability to identify and mitigate risk: divided into two sub-classes based on provider intermediation maintaining its proactive and intensive approach to activities.
Each of the sub-classes is made up of firms which are supervision, including development of its understanding 152 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 providers or intermediaries and engage in similar styles of business following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October with similar types of customer.
2009 or later investigation and provided that investigation The sub-classes are based on the activities a firm undertakes and investigations made in the previous two years and are aligned to their FSA permissions.
A firm could be determined that the Reattributed Inherited Estate allocated to one or more sub-classes according to the activities exceeded the Permitted Release Threshold.
In the event of a failure of a market Reporting requirements participant, the Authorised Firms in the Group could be required FSA rules require insurance companies to file their audited annual to make contributions to compensate investors.
It should be accounts, statements of financial position and life insurers annual noted that such contributions are not restricted to failures in the reports from the actuary performing the actuarial function with sub-classes to which a particular firm belongs, as there is the the regulator.
There is also a requirement to report the annual potential for cross-subsidy between sub-classes to be required.
solvency position of the insurance companys ultimate parent.
Restrictions on business The FSA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. FSA rules restrict an insurance company from carrying on any the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims commercial business other than insurance business and activities payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
For general directly arising from that business.
Therefore, the FSA authorised insurance business, the return is also used to assess retrospectively insurance companies in the Group are bound by this restriction.
the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
The directors of an insurance company are required to sign a certificate, which Long-term assets and liabilities includes a statement as to whether the company has maintained Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longthe required minimum margin of solvency throughout the year.
term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and liabilities The directors must also certify that the company has completed relating to life and health insurance policies must be segregated its return to the FSA properly in accordance with the FSAs from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the company business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and other has complied in all material respects with the requirements set out records must be maintained and a separate fund established to in the FSA rules.
hold all receipts of long-term business.
The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for UK winding up rules purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the FSA The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK rules.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of assets companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by actuarial insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have investigation, may be transferred so as to be available for other priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the purposes.
Restrictions also apply to the payment of dividends by exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance creditors, the insurance company, as described below.
FSA rules also require on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary winding up insurers to maintain sufficient assets in the separate long-term of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of making a insurance fund to cover the actuarially determined value of the winding-up order when an insurance company has been proved insurance liabilities.
unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the amount of one or more of the insurance companys contracts on terms and Distribution of profits and with-profits business subject to conditions if any which the court considers fit.
Where For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, an insurance company is in financial difficulties but not in such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the FSAs rules liquidation, the FSCS may take measures to secure the transfer require that where a firm decides to make a distribution of surplus of all or part of the business to another insurance company.
from the with-profits fund it must distribute at least the required FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of percentage as defined in the FSA Handbook of the total amount insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longdistributed to policyholders, with the balance of the total amount term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator to be distributed being payable to the shareholders.
and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must as it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a distribution will ordinarily be to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In required if the level of the inherited estate of the OWPSF exceeds carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree the Required Distribution Threshold as described in the to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when Reattribution Scheme of Transfer effective from 1 October 2009 the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new The Scheme on any such annual investigation from the third contracts of insurance.
Annual investigation may also be carried out to determine if a Release to shareholders United States can be made from the RIEESA.
Releases can only be made: We write life and annuity business in the United States through if the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted Aviva USA, a wholly owned subsidiary formed by the merger of Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: Aviva Life Insurance Company of America with AmerUS which it the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice acquired in July 2006.
Aviva USA is domiciled in Iowa and licensed including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion to conduct business in all 50 states.
In New York it operates a that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the wholly owned subsidiary, Aviva Life Insurance Company of New WPSF including the RIEESA would be unable to meet New York.
its obligations to policyholders and its capital requirements The US insurance industry is regulated primarily on a stateor the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its obligations by-state basis.
Individual states have authority to pass statutes, to policyholders: adopt regulation or issue directives to regulate insurance activities any contingent loan from the Old WPSF to the RIEESA has within their jurisdiction.
been repaid in full: and Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 153 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk-based capital Consequently, life insurance companies are subject to regulation both in the state in which they are domiciled as well as in each of The NAIC has developed risk-based capital standards for life insurance companies as well as a model act for state legislatures the individual states in which they operate.
State regulation can vary from state to state.
All have laws and regulations covering the to enact.
The model act requires that life insurance companies report on a formula-based, risk-based capital standard that they financial aspects of the insurance business, including standards of solvency, reserves reinsurance and capital adequacy.
In addition, calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk most states have specific regulation governing licensing and the conduct of selling agents as well as the approval of products and characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk.
The NAIC designed the formula associated product forms and literature.
as an early-warning tool to identify potentially inadequately Federal initiatives capitalised companies for the purposes of initiating regulatory While the National Association of Insurance Commissioners action.
The model act imposes broad confidentiality requirements NAIC has no statutory powers, its members are the insurance on those engaged in the insurance business including insurers, commissioners in each state and it acts as a forum to develop agents, brokers and others and on state insurance departments and propose model laws and regulations.
Each state then decides as to the use and publication of risk-based capital data.
whether to adopt the NAIC model laws or regulations and each Any state adopting the model act gives the state insurance state may make changes to the adoption process.
However, commissioner explicit regulatory authority to require various the models are generally widely adopted.
An example is the actions by, or take various actions against, insurance companies Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Act which has been whose adjusted capital does not meet minimum risk-based capital widely adopted by states for a broad range of transactions.
The Iowa Insurance Commissioner takes into account NAIC has a commitment to modernising the state-based the NAICs risk-based capital standards to determine adequate system of insurance regulation and is pushing forward an action compliance with Iowa insurance law.
plan aimed at achieving consistency of approach between states Effective 31 December 2005, the NAIC implemented new on a number of issues including risk management and the requirements, referred to as C-3 Phase II, for calculating risksolvency regulatory framework.
The American Council of Life based capital in connection with variable annuity products with Insurers ACLI has, in the past, proposed an optional federal death and living benefit guarantees.
These changes did not have charter OFC under which life insurers could choose to be a material effect on our US operations, and at 31 December federally regulated instead of state regulated.
However, the OFC 2011, the Companys total adjusted capital under the NAICs has not been adopted.
definition substantially exceeded Iowa standards.
In 2010, Congress passed a law adopting significant federal regulatory reforms for the financial services industry in the US.
Canada We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number The new law will impose stricter prudential standards on systemically significant financial companies, higher-risk financial of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the activities and introduce new mechanisms for resolving failures of significant financial companies.
The law requires additional stress Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI with the focus on prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, testing and reporting on a regular basis.
In addition, a Federal Insurance Office FIO has been established within the Treasury solvency, etc.
OSFI derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act Canada which governs the structure and Department to monitor the insurance industry, co-ordinate federal policy and, along with the US Trade Representative, enter operation of federally incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored into international agreements on prudential insurance matters.
While the FIO will have no direct regulatory authority over the under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual business of insurance, such international agreements could preempt inconsistent state insurance laws.
The FIO is also required, companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and insurance business being written.
Companies have their own among other things, to conduct a study of how to improve and modernise insurance regulation and to report to Congress.
The internal MCT target as well as being expected to maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum requirement.
new law does not currently have any immediate and significant impact on the Company and the FIO is still in the process of being There are also ten individual provincial regulators each regulating predominantly conduct of business issues such as organised.
However, we continue to monitor the FIO and related rulemaking developments.
policy terms and conditions, and pricing and underwriting of companies they have licensed to write business in the province.
Additionally, there is active discussion within the NAIC of moving to a principles-based valuation system for the setting of reserves and capital for life insurance companies.
This could change our statutory reserve and capital requirements significantly and it is not possible to estimate the impact on our financial condition and results of operation at this time.
154 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Asia Pacific We operate within the Asia Pacific region through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business in the region is predominately long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Aviva operates businesses in China, India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control we are able to exert, are either accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
The Asia Pacific region is made up of a number of widely differing and independent markets.
The markets tend to be at different stages in their development but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva complies with the local regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
Industry regulation across the region typically focuses on financial stability, i. e. minimum capital and the basis for calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many of the markets across the region regulators have the power to revoke operating licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in and the payment of dividends.
Markets within the region are moving quickly to modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on governance and conduct of business.
Intellectual property Our primary brands the Aviva name and logo are registered trade marks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other countries where Aviva has operations.
Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the Group or third parties.
