Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 73 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 statement to demonstrate the financial impacts of our community We are committed to building trust with our customers, providing investment and customer advocacy commitments.
The excellent levels of service and communication.
We have Accounting for Sustainability statement is provided on page 82. developed a set of internal principles to inspire employees We are also committed to providing full disclosure to investors to bring recognition to life when interacting with customers.
on our CR programme and as such respond to EIRIS, SAM, Our customers can choose to buy our products through Sustainalytics and Vigeo for inclusion in the FTSE4Good, Dow intermediaries, our corporate partners or from Aviva direct.
Jones Sustainability Indices, Ethibel and ECPI indices.
This year we All employees are required to sign our business ethics code have been ranked as one of the top companies in the FTSE4Good annually.
Each instance of financial crime is recorded and ESG ratings.
We hold a similarly high position in the STOXX ESG investigated independently and controls are put in place Global Leaders.
A full list of our Index rankings can be found to protect our customers data.
By regularly researching the opinions and behaviours of our In terms of leadership participation, Robin Spencer, Avivas customers, through our Consumer Attitudes to Savings research chief risk officer, became the chair of the Chief Risk Officers for example, we are able to deliver products and services that Forum at the beginning of 2012.
Their main focus is Solvency II, are designed to provide prosperity and peace of mind to however, there is also work being done on raising awareness of our customers.
environmental, ethical and reputational risks around our industrys Business ethics response to controversial areas such as oil sands and banned We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our weapons.
Marie Sigsworth, Group CR director, has been on the principles in our business ethics code.
This stipulates fairness, management committee of Accounting for Sustainability since honesty and transparency in all we do.
Employees in all countries 2009 and John Ainley, Group HR Director is a member of the in which we operate are required to uphold the laws of the host CBI Climate Change Board.
country and to conduct themselves according to the business We believe in the promotion of transparent and integrated ethics code.
Everyone at Aviva has a part to play in upholding reporting, as we think that companies who report on our standards and we raise awareness of these responsibilities environmental, social and governance issues alongside their through our induction programmes.
Sign-off of acceptance financial statement have a greater understanding of those risks of the code is required by all staff.
Our code has been revised affecting the business.
Aviva Investors, through its Sustainable during 2011 to incorporate the requirements of the UK Bribery Stock Exchange initiative, has called for companies to present a Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
This code has forward-looking sustainability report integrated throughout the been rolled out to employees who are required to read and sign Annual Report and Accounts.
Steve Waygood, chief responsible the code each year.
Through a revision of the sign-up process we investment officer at Aviva Investors, is a member of the have achieved a 89% acceptance of the code this year 2010: International Integrated Reporting Committee working group 32%.
We aim for a sign-off of 100% of employees even though progressing the development of integrated reports.
At the we recognise this might not be feasible each year due to sickness upcoming Earth Summit in Rio 2012, Aviva is calling for an and maternity leave for example.
international policy framework on sustainability reporting to In addition to our business ethics code, Aviva has a code progress this issue further.
of ethics for senior management as required by section 406 of the Open dialogue with our stakeholders helps us to define Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the rules issued by the Securities priorities and shape our approach.
We have continued to engage and Exchange Commission.
This code can be found on Avivas closely with governments this year, sharing our insight as both the website: www.
com investor-relations corporateowner and investor of capital, giving a useful double perspective governance code-of-ethics.
to aid their public policy development.
Specifically we have responded to: Financial crime UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Our financial crime standard reinforces our zero-tolerance Mandatory carbon reporting.
approach and ensures that risks relating to fraud, money UK Department for Business Innovation and Skills laundering, market abuse and bribery and corruption are A long-term focus for corporate Britain adequately managed.
This year we have updated our anti-bribery UK Department for Business Innovation and Skills procedures to incorporate the requirements of the UK Bribery Executive remuneration paper.
An enhanced training module accompanied the roll-out Financial Reporting Council Effective Company.
of the new procedures to all staff.
Going forward, this training Stewardship Enhancing Corporate Reporting and Audit.
requirement has been devolved to regional management, Response to Lord Davies review on Women on Boards.
to provide at a local level.
We are continuing to improve our identification and recording of financial crime on a consistent In addition to these consultations we have engaged with MPs basis, across the group.
on the Street to School programme with our UK partner Railway We encourage our employees to raise any concerns they might Children to raise awareness of children at risk on our streets have through Right Call an Aviva-wide malpractice reporting in the UK.
This enables all employees to report any suspicions or The IPSOS Mori MPs study carried out independently each concerns in a confidential manner for independent investigation.
year suggests Aviva scores favourably against its peers when MPs During 2011, 69 incidents were recorded across the group.
All are asked whether they considered that the company acts with cases were referred for independent investigation with 54 reaching integrity and takes its social responsibilities seriously.
conclusion and 15 cases currently remaining under investigation.
Trust and transparency Understanding our customers Building and maintaining trust in Aviva by our customers, our We continued to work to understand perceptions and needs in business partners, suppliers, shareholders and employees is of our markets and once again conducted our wide-ranging survey prime importance within a sector that sees some of the lowest on Consumer Attitudes to Saving, using the results to inform levels of trust in society.
ongoing product and service developments across the group.
