82 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Accounting for Sustainability We also report our performance using Accounting We have reported the following indicators for 2011: greenhouse gas emissions: for Sustainabilitys connected reporting framework, waste: which integrates financial and non-financial data resource usage: to provide a comprehensive picture of our impacts.
customer advocacy: and We were one of the first companies to help develop developing communities.
the framework and have used this approach for environmental reporting in our Annual Report and Accounts since 2007.
We continue to explore ways to extend this framework and have included customer and community indicators since 2009.
Aviva plc operational carbon footprint covering 100% of Greenhouse gas emissions employees GHG Emissions data from 1 Jan 2011 to 31 Dec 2011 Direct company impacts Tonnes CO2e 2011 2010 Cash flow performance 63,784 Scope 1 44,471 The most material direct environmental impact that Aviva Scope 2 97,988 68,628 Scope 3 22,656 15,839 creates are greenhouse gas emissions.
We emit greenhouse Gross CO emissions 165,115 148,251 2 gases through our company operations generated from energy Absolute CO footprint 165,115 127,685 2 used in our buildings, fugitive emissions, air travel, car business Carbon offsetting 173,371 133,049 Total net emissions 8,256 6,336 miles and rail travel.
For the first time this year associated Data according the Defra guidelines i. e. UK electricity rated as grid average but renewable recognised in other emissions from our use of water and disposal of waste to countries.
Gross and absolute emission in 2011 were the same.
Going forward we will report on absolute emissions only landfill, and where collected, emissions from car rental for Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources e. g. gas, vehicle fleet as part of product service.
business journeys are included in our footprint.
However, our Scope 2 operational emission from non-owned sources e. g. electricity.
Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned sources e. g. business travel.
operational emissions are smaller than those of our supply chain, the insurance claims fulfilment process and the emissions of the Performance, strategy and targets investment funds we manage.
The scope of Avivas emissions Aviva's relative emissions have reduced this year.
This is a includes all operations where we have day-to-day control: combination of improvements in energy efficiency and increased including joint ventures and associates.
In 2011, we have use of technology.
Our renewable electricity on a worldwide included new markets in our reporting boundary: Indonesia, basis is 7% of our total electricity consumption.
AI Singapore and AI Luxembourg.
Some 165,115 tonnes of In September 2011 we sold the RAC business and the carbon dioxide tCO or equivalent were emitted by Aviva 2 responsibility for the associated environmental impact moved into the atmosphere in 2011. away from Aviva.
In respect of carbon emissions RAC accounted Carbon offsets for the voluntary carbon market will be for 52,979 tonnes when we began reporting on it in 2006 purchased in 2012 to cover our footprint plus an additional 5% and 25,491 tonnes in 2010, the last full year of reporting, extra to allow for any inconsistencies in reporting.
The cost of a reduction of 52%.
offsetting will be funded by the areas of the business that have Our long-term carbon reduction target used a baseline year created the emissions on a polluter pays basis.
of 2006, the first year of reporting on the RAC, our target was an absolute 30% reduction to 2020.
By the end of 2010 we had achieved a 10% reduction to the target.
As RAC emissions Avivas CO emissions 000 tonnes 2 accounted for 17% of our overall emissions, we have revised CO2 tonnes CO2 offset CO2 tonnes per employee our baseline to 2010.
As a result our new baseline is 148,625 175 4.9 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
150 4.2 Communication technologies mentioned in last years report 125 3.5 have impacted travel, particularly in Europe where air kilometres 100 2.8 have reduced by 7.6% in 2011.
Correspondingly, the use of 75 2.1 telepresence, webex and MS Office Communicator has 50 1.4 increased: 2,579 meetings were held by telepresence in 2011 25 0.7 2010: 1,151.
We have estimated the cost of travel avoidance 0 0 from the use of telepresence in 2011 as 1.9 million and 1,417 07 08 09 10 11 tonnes in carbon savings.
Concentrating on our core business, our strategy to outsource data centres is continuing.
We outsourced our UK data centre in 2009 and our Canadian data centre at the end of 2010.
2012 will see the outsourcing of data centres in the US and in Europe.
As this outsourcing occurs we will seek to continue to report on the energy consumption related to the processing and storage of Avivas data.
HP is our business partner in this process for the UK, Canada and the US.
With the maturity, and increasing validity of our environmental data collection, we face the challenge of making year-on-year reductions in carbon emissions.
We have 127,002 127,002 122,791 122,791 104,351 104,351 127,685 127,685 165,115 165,115 Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 83 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 extensively employed the use of no-cost and low-cost behaviour There are many ways our work in this area is informed.
changes and technologies which have a return on investment One of these is our continuing involvement in ClimateWise, ROI comparable to other core business investment decisions.
the insurance sector collaboration forum on climate change.
In order to assist our business further in carbon reduction Our involvement in the workstream looking at sustainable claims activities we have created a Sustainability Fund which will be management continues, along with work on calls for the seeded at a group level.
Aviva businesses can apply for the consideration of low-carbon solutions inclusion in fixed income funding to install energy saving technologies.
These may have investment vehicles.
a longer ROI to support our long-term carbon reduction target, Products suppliers investors and combat the impact of rising energy costs and potentially Increasingly we are considering environmental impacts bolster our energy security over the next decade.
The financial associated with our products and services and the processes savings made will pay off the loan with the businesses keeping involved in their use and fulfilment.
We have completed a further savings.
Energy saving will help to reduce the cost of carbon footprint exercise for the energy consumption of the purchasing carbon offsets.
We will report on development in UK properties we own through our Aviva Investors Real Estate this area next year.
According to our CRCEES submission this amounted Our group annual carbon reduction target still stands at 5%.
Through the Real Estate Our long-term target to 2020 has been rebaselined following Sustainability Charter and Sustainability Forum we are working the sale of the RAC business.
This is now set at 20% reduction with site managers and tenants to reduce the properties using a baseline year of 2010. environmental impacts.
The Aviva Investors European The UK businesses are financially impacted in 2012 by the Renewable Energy Fund achieved its first close in mid-2011 cost of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency and expects to acquire and manage approximately 1bn of Scheme CRCEES.
Avivas operational carbon boundaries differ assets.
The fund is currently open for further investment.
from those reported for the CRCEES as that also includes energy In order to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding emissions from our portfolio of properties included in funds environmental goods and services sector, Aviva UK launched which we manage and have responsibility for.
Avivas position an expansion of policy endorsements covering low-carbon in the CRCEES Performance League table was 899 out of a total technologies and services in March 2011.
In 2010 Aviva Canada of 2103 participating organisations.
The total CO2 emissions in created a set of endorsement bundles introduced to satisfy the respect of CRCEES for the 2010 2011 financial year were insurance needs of domestic customers.
We estimate the cost of our 2011 2012 solar panels and wind turbines to generate electricity for their emissions to be 1.29 million.
Both the operational and CRCEES own consumption and or supplying energy to the Grid as part carbon footprints have reduced and will be reduced further due of Provincial Incentive Programs can now be covered as part of to the sale of the RAC business at the end of September 2011. their insurance policy.
Building on that, a further product has The graph below shows the cost breakdown of one kilowatt been developed which means that in the event of a total or hour of UK energy for Aviva.
The cost of the actual energy and major loss at the insured's home, the customer will be able supply equates to 73%, government levies and taxes which are to replace damaged or destroyed property with more paid account for 25% of the overall cost.
These are revenue environmentally friendly and sustainable products.
raising and are not ringfenced by the Government for Aviva France has developed a number of products which environmental improvements.
The only aspect of the costs encourage and reward our customers for their environmentally which benefit the environment is the carbon offsetting conscious behaviour.
One of these products is our limited element 2%.
mileage motor policy which offers reduced premiums for driving less.
Take up of the low mileage product makes up 25% of Cost of carbon per tonne for Aviva Aviva Frances portfolio and accounted for 28% of new sales Electricity UK Gas UK Business travel and all emissions for rest of world in 2010.
30 Industry benchmark information 25 Carbon Disclosure Project Score 80 out of 100 in FTSE 20 Global 500 and FTSE350 2010: 70 : and 15 1 BREEAM minimum ranking Good for new build and 10 refurbishment.
5 0 09 10 11 12 The cost of carbon varies depending on the source of the emissions and the geography of where the emissions are created.
These also change over time.
We are conscious of the potential impacts that climate change has on our business.
Climate change is a major trend that drives changes in our risk profile.
We build the financial risk that climate change poses into our levels of capital reserves and risk management processes.
The risk section provides further information on this on page 61.
1 Building research establishment environmental assessment methodology.
84 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 long-term target zero to landfill for UK operations by Waste 2015 and worldwide by 2020.
Direct company impacts Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Resource usage Total disposal cost for hazardous and non-hazardous waste in the UK was 681,000 2010: 596,000, which includes UK Direct Company impacts landfill tax.
On a worldwide basis the cost of offsetting the Water associated carbon emissions will be approximately 2,047.
The operating cost of water is 1.1million 2010: 1.6 million with a CO2 equivalent of 503 tCO2.
Of the total water Conservation investment consumed, 5% comes from grey water sources and is used In the UK, total capital expenditure for storage and recycling for irrigation of the grounds around the buildings.
This investment means that the percentage of waste diverted from landfill now stands at Energy intensity 91% and will be zero to landfill by the end of 2012.
The total cost of buildings related energy in 2011 was 18.3 million 2010: 17.7 million.
The equivalent cost per square metre is 22.
The cost of UK CRCEES regulation of Avivas waste 000 tonnes 1.29 million is an additional cost.
Total waste tonnes Recycled tonnes Total waste per employee kgs 25 500 Paper usage We currently do not track the cost of paper on a global basis.
20 400 Environmental incidents 15 300 During 2011 there were no environmental incidents as a result 10 200 of our operations 2010: none.
5 100 3 0 0 Avivas water consumption 000 m 3 3 Water consumption m Water consumption m per employee 07 08 09 10 11 900 20 Performance, strategy and targets 800 16 Despite the quality of reporting in respect of waste improving 700 12 in 2011, the overall volume of waste disposed of reduced by 2,393 tonnes for the UK.
There are several reasons for this 600 8 including structural changes such as less office closures, but 500 4 also more efficient paper use see Resource usage.
The US head office employ the use of a solar compactor for general waste 400 0 and a food waste desiccator, the product of which is used as 07 08 09 10 11 a soil improver.
These two machines have reduced the number of waste collections.
Performance, strategy and targets Having already reached a recycling rate of 89% in 2010 Water consumption reduced by 26% in 2011: this was partially Aviva UK sought to further improve the recycling rate in 2011. due to the outsourcing of Aviva Canadas data centre which The focus of attention was food waste which was previously was water cooled.
It is anticipated that the UK business will reach its zero to landfill target by the end of 2012, three Indirect impacts years ahead of the target year.
Products suppliers investors 2011 was the first full year of Aviva UKs adherence to the Indirect impacts Royal Mails Responsible Mailing programme for direct Products suppliers investors marketing mail.
Nearly 8 million items of direct mail were In an effort to reduce the amount of waste generated through delivered through this programme which ensures that the our claims fulfilment processes, we have sought to apply the paper used is FSC accredited.
Aviva US only uses FSC repair over replace principle to domestic property claims accredited paper in its operations.
Previously this consisted of stripping By the end of 2011 all UK General Insurance home, out render and plaster on walls and ceilings.
We target motor and broker commercial transactional policy packs, yearly minimisation of strip out of the property affected by water statements and renewals were e-enabled, generating saving damage through the introduction of a Repair Order to Aid of nearly 2 million per annum on print and postage costs.
Drying ROTAD whereby the suppliers are required to Another 41% of Aviva UK policy documentation will be complete a documented request on a property prior to e-enabled in 2012 with total estimated savings of 8.6 million.
This monitoring process has significantly reduced the instance of strip outs.
Industry benchmark information Water: 4 cubic metres per employee per year Water Key Industry benchmark information Performance Indicators and benchmarks for offices and 200kg of waste per employee per year: and hotels.
recycling rate of 6070% BRE Office toolkit.
Office paper: 4,0005,000 sheets per employee per annum Gartner research.
Targets annual 4% reduction in total waste: annual recycling rate greater than 80%: and 18,877 16,672 19,311 16,222 14,592 10,064 12,042 9,490 8,995 6,585 kg employee 851,070 843,750 751,750 690,369 509,657 3 m employee Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 85 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In order to achieve these targets, we use Net Promoter as a Customer advocacy discipline rather than just a number, which means continuously Direct Company impacts listening to and understanding what our customers want from At Aviva, the Net Promoter Score is our key customer metric.
us so that we can improve the experience we deliver to them.
This KPI is derived from the annual Relationship NPS survey Following the RNPS survey, we undertake robust analysis to conducted across all markets and comparing the local Aviva highlight key drivers which each market uses to develop results with the local competition.
This measure is widely annual action plans.
The 2012 action plans show that markets regarded as a predictor of future growth, with strong are focusing on key areas of the customer experience, correlations to persistency and retention, repeat purchase and including how we engage with customers through ongoing referrals, suggesting that acting on the drivers of this metric will communications after the initial sale, how we build products help us to build advocacy and will have a positive impact on that are in the best interests of customers and ensuring that business performance.
Some preliminary analysis in different we are available to customers through the service channels markets has shown that customers who score more highly on they choose such as digital and mobile.
the NPS scale are indeed more likely to stay with Aviva for Indirect impacts longer and more likely to have multiple products, suggesting Customers place their trust in us to deliver on our promises.
that improving customer advocacy is beneficial to our By acting responsibly we ensure that Aviva is here for the long company performance.
term to provide prosperity and peace of mind.
Our progress Non-financial indicator in this area has been recognised by being ranked as the Businesses performance v local benchmark most reputable financial services provider in the UK by the Reputation Institute in 2011.
Performance v market average Recovering from poor experiences Net Promoter Score One aspect to maintaining this reputation is how we respond % below benchmark % met or exceeded benchmark % in upper quartile when things go wrong.
Especially in a world where a customer 100 can publicly broadcast what we have done and how we have 80 responded, it is more important than ever to actively welcome customer feedback and to treat customers fairly.
Of course, 60 delivering products and services in line with our customers 40 expectations will ensure that we minimise complaints in the first place, however, accepting that we are human and therefore 20 wont get it right every single time, we believe that customer 0 complaints are an opportunity for us to win back goodwill that we may have lost.
And by listening and learning from this 10 11 feedback, over the past year we have seen the level of complaints fall and we have also seen improvements in how Our performance, strategy and targets our customers feel about the interactions they have with us.
The 2011 Relationship Net Promoter Score RNPS survey again showed an improvement on the previous year.
We maintained Looking to the future the proportion of businesses operating in the upper quartile It is also important to our business to understand how relative to local competition benchmarks and reduced the consumers lives are changing and therefore how we can adapt proportion of businesses operating below the market average to these changes.
In 2011 we explored some of the major trends as they moved into a market average position.
We are pleased currently manifesting in our key markets, such as the growing with the progress made however and we are committed to consideration consumers give to the impact of their purchasing improving the performance of our markets which are below decisions on the environment, increasing desire for emotional the market average.
experiences rather than tangible goods, and recognition of the Across our regions: importance of the home in an increasingly unstable world.
We In North America, we have maintained similar positions are well positioned to help consumers through this uncertainty, relative to the competition when compared with 2010. enabling them to make better financial choices and protect In Asia, China, Korea and Singapore we have outwhats important to them.
With this understanding of future performed, when compared to the local market consumer needs we can position our business to respond and benchmark.
There were also further strong improvements therefore build our reputation as a company that listens to and in the Indian business.
In Europe, the majority of markets continue to outperform, when compared to the local market benchmark.
Engaging our people The UK results have also shown marked improvements In the last year, the proportion of our people who say they against the competitor benchmarks.
would recommend our products and services has increased but remains slightly below the Global Financial Services benchmark.
Building customer advocacy is one of the primary objectives Since we know that the way our people feel about our products for the business as a whole with our long-term target for all and services is directly correlated with how our customers markets to be in the upper quartile relative to their local perceive us, maintaining this high performance and the competition.
Using a consistent methodology, each market is support of our people is critical to building our reputation also set an annual target of either maintenance or improvement with our customers.
depending on their current performance.
86 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Indirect impacts Developing communities We have taken the opportunity to partner with the Consortium Direct company impacts for Street Children CSC to aid our ability to play our part in Our global investment in charitable and community national and international advocacy activity as we know that development projects in 2011 was 12.4 million 2010: 11.4 legislative, policy and service delivery improvements will make million.
This includes cash, time and in-kind donations as well as the biggest difference to the most children.
In light of this we management costs calculated using the London Benchmarking are also sponsoring pioneering research activity such as The Group LBG model.
We also helped leverage an additional State of the Worlds Street Children and a study regarding 2.8 million of investment where our activity attracted further Street Children to be delivered by the High Commissioner for contributions from our wide network of stakeholders Human rights to the UN Human Rights Council in March 2012.
We believe this type of collaboration is essential to achieve the recognition and realisation of street child rights, help deliver the Millennium Development Goals and increase the wellbeing of Community investment m all in our global communities.
Community investment Employee volunteering hours 12.5 90 10 80 7.5 70 5 60 2.5 50 0 40 08 09 10 11 Our performance, strategy and targets Our global community development CD strategy, focusing on financial literacy, education and life trauma, aligns to our corporate vision and channels financial support and the expertise of our employees into projects where we can see positive societal impacts.
Our total investment was 1 million higher than in 2010.
Three key factors contributed to this: significant investment in our ongoing global CD and causerelated marketing initiative Street to School which donated funds and used our marketing reach to raise awareness of the issue: improvement in the scope and accuracy of the way we record CD data according to LBG guidelines: and the increasing engagement of our people in CD activity.
We delivered over 60,392 hours of volunteering in 2011 2010: 57,250 and we had a significant 5% uplift in those believing our commitment to CR is genuine and 10% uplift in employees believing we act responsibly in our communities.
This places us 14% above the Global Financial Services benchmark in this regard.
Our flagship Street to School initiative to get young people off the streets and into education and training is delivering tangible benefits in engaging our people, impacting the lives of vulnerable young people and in creating the right brand associations for Aviva.
Our clear focus on this programme, with at least 50% of CD activity happening in this sphere gives us the opportunity to make a deep and lasting difference.
23 Street to School programmes are in operation and we have developed a rigorous measurement framework together with our partners to allow us to govern and demonstrate the activity, its inputs and outputs.
From this we know that we helped over 274,000 children through our programmes in 2011.
We continue to use Street to School in our cause-related marketing, showing its potential to engage our stakeholders and also its power to engage social media communities.
We will continue to extend the impact of Street to School in 2012 and will also be conducting a review to ensure we plan for the sustainability of these impacts.
000 hours Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 87 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our conclusions Independent assurance statement On the basis of our review we provide the following conclusions The Aviva corporate responsibility content on pages 7286 the on the CR Report in relation to each of the AA1000AS 2008 CR Report has been prepared by the management of Aviva, who assurance principles, overall plausibility and the completeness are responsible for the collection and presentation of information and accuracy of environmental and community investment reported.
Our responsibility, in accordance with managements performance data.
Our conclusions should be read in conjunction instructions, is to provide a limited assurance engagement on with the above section on What we did to form our conclusions.
the CR Report content and on selected environmental and community investment data presented in the CR Report.
We do Inclusivity not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or Has Aviva been engaging with stakeholders across the business to any other person or organisation.
Any reliance any such third to further develop its approach to corporate responsibility?
party may place on the CR Report is entirely at its own risk.
We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from dialogue.
What we did to form our conclusions We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in conclude that Aviva has not applied the inclusivity principle 1 accordance with ISAE3000 and to meet the requirements of a in developing its approach to corporate responsibility.
Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by AA1000AS 2008.
2 The AA1000AS 2008 assurance principles of Inclusivity, Materiality Materiality and Responsiveness have been used as criteria against Has Aviva provided a balanced representation of material issues which to evaluate the CR Report.
concerning its corporate responsibility performance?
To form our conclusions on the CR Report we undertook We are not aware of any material aspects of Avivas the steps outlined below: corporate responsibility performance which have been 1.
Interviewed a selection of executives and senior excluded from the CR Report.
managers at Avivas Group headquarters in London and Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe selected Aviva businesses to understand the current status of that Aviva management has not applied its processes for corporate responsibility activities, and progress made during determining material issues to be included in the CR Report.
Reviewed Avivas approach to stakeholder engagement Responsiveness through interviews with a selection of employees at Aviva Has Aviva responded to stakeholder concerns?
businesses in the UK, France, Sri Lanka and Group We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to headquarters and reviewing selected associated conclude that Aviva has not applied the responsiveness documentation.
principle in considering the matters to be reported.
Reviewed a selection of external media reports and Performance information selected corporate level documents relating to corporate How plausible are the statements and claims within the responsibility aspects of Avivas performance to test the CR Report?
coverage of topics within the CR Report.
We are not aware of any inconsistencies in the assertions 4.
Reviewed Avivas processes for determining material made with regards to performance and achievement.
issues to be included in the CR Report.
How complete and accurate is the environmental and community 5.
Reviewed the collation and aggregation of selected investments data in the CR Report?
environmental and community investment performance With the exception of the limitations identified in the data at Aviva businesses in the UK, France, Sri Lanka CR Report, we are not aware of any material reporting and Group.
units that have been excluded from Group data.
Reviewed information or explanations about selected Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe data, statements and assertions regarding Avivas that the data relating to the above topics has not been corporate responsibility performance.
collated properly from Group-wide systems.
Level of assurance We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect Our evidence-gathering procedures were designed to obtain the data as presented in the CR Report.
a limited level of assurance as set out in ISAE3000 on which Observations on particular aspects of our engagement to base our conclusions.
The extent of evidence gathering Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a procedures performed is less than that of a reasonable assurance report to Aviva management.
Selected observations are provided engagement such as a financial audit and therefore a lower level below.
These observations do not affect our conclusions on the of assurance is provided.
Limitations of our review Aviva continues to use the Credit 360 data collection tool Our review of data processes included the following data sets: as a means of standardising the environmental and environmental and community investment.
There have been We did not review environmental or community investment improvements in data collection, particularly in relation performance data for years prior to 2010. to the community data.
Aviva should consider improving the guidance and training for the reporting of environmental performance data.
Aviva has expanded its reporting boundaries, both geographically and in scope.
This work is encouraging and Aviva should ensure progress is ongoing in this area.
1 International Federation of the Accountants International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE3000.
2 AA1000AS 2008 A second edition of the AA1000 assurance standard from the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability.
88 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our independence As auditors to Aviva plc, Ernst & Young are required to comply with the independence requirements set out in the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Ernst & Youngs independence policies apply to the firm, partners and professional staff.
These policies prohibit any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence.
Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firms policies.
Our assurance team Our assurance team has been drawn from our global Climate Change and Sustainability Services Practice, which undertakes engagements similar to this with a number of significant UK and international businesses.
The work has been led and reviewed by a Lead Sustainability Assurance Practitioner.
Ernst & Young LLP London 7 March 2012 Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 89 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Page In this section Board of directors 90 Executive management 92 Directors report 93 Corporate governance report 97 Nomination Committee report 106 Audit Committee report 108 Risk Committee report 111 Corporate Responsibility Committee report 113 Directors remuneration report 114
