Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 77 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 targets Performance We sponsored pioneering research into The State of the Worlds Street Children and the first International Day of Reduce relative CO emissions by 5% 3 % 2 Reduce water use by 4% 26 % the Street Child: raising awareness of the plight of street Reduce waste by 4% 25 % children across the world.
Increase percentage of recycled waste by 2% until 80% recycled rate is achieved 73% Community projects We also offset 105% of our remaining emissions by investing in sustainable projects such as renewable energy generation and small-scale run-of-river hydro electricity systems.
We commit at least 50% of our community development budget CO2 performance data is calculated on a like-for-like basis taking into account new acquisitions and divestments in 2011. to Street to School.
Our approach to benefiting our people, community and brand is also found in the following examples: As a major international real estate manager, we are working Our ongoing partnership with Oxfam 365 helps to equip with our partners and advisers to show leadership in sustainability Oxfam with the resources and materials to respond to across the real estate industry.
Our Sustainability Charter guides emergencies as soon as they happen, such as those in East our efforts to improve the sustainability performance of our Africa and the Philippines.
managed portfolio and new construction projects.
Through the Paying for It, launched by Aviva in 2007, continued to take Sustainability Forum convened to implement the charter, we have economic citizenship teaching into schools throughout the increased our focus on energy, water and waste management, UK using trained Aviva volunteers and now with 3,500 transport, occupier engagement and staff training.
In February 2011 we launched the first commercial insurance Our grassroots athletics and rugby programmes reach out product endorsements to support the drive to a low-carbon to tens of thousands of children every year to help them economy.
These products will cover wind turbines and solar develop a healthy and active lifestyle.
power manufacturers, biomass and waste to energy production.
In Canada, the Aviva Community Fund gives members of the public the opportunity to turn great ideas into action to The role of insurers in climate change benefit their local communities.
This innovative use of social The insurance industry has a fundamental part to play in societys media encouraged two million members of the community responses to climate change.
As a major insurer Aviva has firstto vote on their preferred project.
hand understanding of the impact of extreme weather events on our customers.
On their behalf, we are committed to help We are clear that our major programmes should align to our mitigate the threat of climate change and support everyone in strategy but we also understand that our employees have issues society to adapt to changes caused by man-made emissions close to their own heart that they would like to see their company already in the atmosphere.
Our industry can also draw on its support.
We encourage employees to take up their volunteering knowledge of historical weather data to identify patterns of allowance and offer matched funding to support this.
One change, applying our understanding of risk to map future employee found that being involved in a school volunteering temperature scenarios and determine likely impacts.
Our programme was a key highlight of the year.
Not only did it feel Accounting for Sustainability statement on page 82 explains personally satisfying to be involved, it benefited the school our progress against these areas.
Typically a one-day taster of volunteering We believe that climate change must be tackled now.
has led to an appetite for further volunteering throughout 2012.
As extreme weather events become more frequent and more severe, they become more challenging to insure.
It is in everyones Climate change and environment interest that insurance remains affordable and available so that Protecting the environment to mitigate against man-made climate people affected by severe weather events can recover quickly change are key priorities for Aviva that we believe requires action from unavoidable impacts.
Aviva is currently working with the ABI today, not tomorrow.
Our strategy to deliver action focuses firstly and the Government to address the issues around the ending of on control of our own environmental impacts to reduce the flooding Statement of Principles in 2013.
However, this has to greenhouse gas emissions from energy, waste and travel.
We be part of a bigger conversation in which everyone understands continue to compensate for our operational emissions worldwide their responsibility in flood risk management.
This includes by purchasing carbon credits from the voluntary carbon market.
insurers ensuring that premiums accurately and fairly reflect We apply our understanding to work within our sphere of the risk, local authorities and Government continuing to invest influence externally to encourage sustainable practices with our in defences and indeed the homeowner who can consider customers, suppliers, governments and the companies in which what measures they can take to reduce the damage if the we invest.
Our focused attention in driving down energy use while at Leadership and participation the same time increasing our carbon boundaries has resulted We have joined forces with other leading organisations to provide in a relative carbon reduction of 3% 2010: 4%.
In 2009 we a collective industry voice and specialist sector-specific influence announced our long-term target of a reduction of 30% carbon to support the climate change agenda: dioxide CO emissions by 2020 from our baseline of 2006.
By 2 o The 2 Challenge Communiqu a call from businesses 2010 we had achieved a 10% reduction from 2006.
Due to the around the world for governments to speed up international sale of the RAC, a significant contributor to our carbon footprint, climate change negotiations and take action at a it has been necessary to restate our baseline year to 2010.
long-term carbon reduction ambition has not changed but due to Open letters from UKSIF on the green investment bank.
the baseline year change the target is now an absolute reduction 2011 Global Investor Statement on Climate Change a joint of 20% from 2010 to 2020.
Our relative annual target reduction statement by 285 leading investors on the need for policy is set at 5% to help us achieve the longer-term target.
to stimulate private sector investment in climate change We also set global annual targets in other key areas, solutions, job creation and long-term sustainability of the summarised below: global economy.
78 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business in the Community BITC International Campaign Just as important, our products can encourage behaviour change we are a member of the environment workstream that aims and contribute to more sustainable economies as well as to support businesses to take action on climate change and providing access to financial stability and protection.
For many other environmental issues on a global scale.
families in emerging economies, Aviva products will be the first time they have accessed insurance.
Since 2006, when we were a founder member of the Over recent years, the political drive to reduce carbon ClimateWise Principles, we have been a part of the management emissions, along with high oil and gas prices and fears about committee and continue to report each year against these energy security, have combined to boost the global renewable industry-wide principles.
We are also very active in the energy sector.
Climate change poses serious risks, but it has ClimateWise collaborations on research into health and climate also opened up massive opportunities for new technology.
change, sustainable claims management and integrating climate The renewable energy sector is forecast to increase in value change considerations into fixed income investments.
We have also played our part in the creation of the UN We want to be part of the solution, providing the financial Principles for Sustainable Insurance which are due to be launched service products that are needed to support a more sustainable, at the Rio 20 Summit in June 2012.
The principles require stable world economy.
In March 2011, the Carbon Connect insurers to understand, address, integrate, further develop and report Energy Efficiency: The Untapped Business Opportunity disclose material environmental, social and governance issues called on insurers to develop solutions for renewable energy that impact the company and our customers.
We are developing new products and investments Following our call at the London launch of the Carbon that support the low-carbon economy and the renewable Disclosure Project in 2010 to do more than simply disclose carbon energy sector.
data we have jointly developed and invested in Carbon Action.
We are providing insurance for home renewable technologies This will encourage companies to demonstrate their mitigation in Canada as well as offering customers the chance to replace activities with an initial focus on carbon intensive sectors.
household items with more environmentally friendly goods when We firmly believe that engaging our employees to raise needed.
In terms of commercial insurance, we offer a range of awareness and address environmental impacts is an essential part covers to suit policyholders ranging from small companies using of delivering our environmental strategy.
76% 2010: 71% of a single solar panel to national onshore wind farms.
Our public our employees agree that we make business choices that support liability cover now also includes failure to supply power and the environment which include measures such as our recycling professional indemnity cover for environmental consultants.
initiatives, providing alternatives to business travel and energy We also want to encourage our customers to adopt more reduction techniques.
We ran a number of initiatives around sustainable behaviours.
To this extent we: the Group in 2011 to further engage employees, including give customers the ability to manage their policies online: ClimateWeek, WWF Earth hour and the 10:10 campaign provide insurance products and loans that benefit lowin Europe.
carbon vehicles, people who drive less and people who use sustainable transport: and Sustainable supply chain provide life assurance products which encourage We consider our supply chain to be part of our sphere of healthier lifestyles.
influence not only to address the carbon intensity of our supply chain but to encourage our suppliers to be more responsible and Sustainable stock markets sustainable.
Aviva is a large procurer, with a 4.4 billion spend Aviva Investors is a leader in the field of responsible investment and 32,000 suppliers.
We have also begun to introduce legally and from 2012 onwards will start to include environmental, social binding clauses covering corporate responsibility within and governance considerations ESG in all mainstream procurement contracts.
During 2011 we have developed a Code investment decisions.
Aviva is a founding member of the of behaviour for suppliers outlining a mutual moral commitment Principles for Responsible Investment PRI and is also represented on which to conduct the supplier relationship.
on the PRI Advisory Council.
These principles inform our approach We have also moved from the supplier CR maturity to all our investments.
Part of our approach is to encourage good assessment into a Supplier Profile Questionnaire which enables governance and responsible practice is to engage with deeper and more meaningful information related to CR for companies on ESG issues and vote on their strategies at annual both sourcing activity and ongoing post-contract supply general meetings.
The most significant project on voting and engagement issues A good example of our approach to sustainable supply chain is our involvement in the Sustainable Stock Exchanges initiative.
management can be seen through a project we have with This is focused on enabling all investors to vote directly on the Rentokil Initial to improve waste management.
Our joint effort sustainability disclosure of listed companies, rather than using a has won Aviva the prestigious Chairmans Cup in the City of surrogate such as the annual report and accounts.
In 2008 Aviva London Clean City Awards for the second time.
Investors CEO Alain Dromer called on all the listing authorities of the global stock markets to consider whether their corporate Sustainable products and services governance codes should be updated to include a provision promoting CR reporting.
Specifically, we proposed that all Well-designed, well-delivered and socially inclusive products and stock market listing authorities establish a listing requirement services underpin our promise to provide prosperity and peace of that companies: mind to our 43 million customers, many of whom have long-term consider how responsible and sustainable their business relationships with us.
model is: and More than just a product, insurance has a tangible value for present a forward-looking sustainability strategy at their society and individuals.
Its a sharing of risk at a local and global annual general meeting AGM for shareholder approval.
level that helps people to live their lives, businesses to do business and modern society to function.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 79 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overall, the main purpose of our proposed corporate responsibility reporting requirement, and the associated AGM vote, is to try to create the right kind of discussions within the boardrooms of listed companies around the world, and then between the company and its shareholders.
Since 2008, the Sustainable Stock Exchange initiative has continued to gather momentum.
In 2011 we led a group of 24 institutional investors representing US$1.6 trillion to call for sustainability disclosure from listed companies.
We wrote to 30 of the worlds largest stock exchanges to ask them to address inadequate sustainability reporting by companies.
Developed using Bloomberg data, the letter also ranked individual listing authorities on a sustainability league table that assessed the current level of environmental, social and governance disclosure among listed companies.
We believe this initiative has significant potential to make capital markets work better and be more sustainable.
We held events at each of the UK political party conferences this year to discuss sustainable stock markets.
External benchmarking and recognition Our achievements in 2011 were recognised by our inclusion in some of the worlds leading external benchmarks: Dow Jones Europe and World Sustainability Indexes: SAM Sustainability Yearbook: FTSE4GOOD Index Series: FTSE KLD Europe, Asia Pacific and Global Sustainability indexes excluding the US Index : ECPI Ethical Index Euro and Ethical Index Global: Ethibel Excellence and Pioneer Indexes: Carbon Clear ranked 3rd in FTSE100: Newsweek Green Companies ranked 28th out of 100 companies: Gold status in Business in the Communitys BITC Corporate Responsibility Index 2011 : and Stonewall Workplace Equality Index ranked 98 in the top 100 employers in the UK.
Affiliations and engagements We work closely with leading organisations to share good practice, identify emerging issues and improve our performance.
Here are just a few of the organisations we collaborated with in 2011: CBI Climate Change Board: Carbon Disclosure Project: HRH Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability: ClimateWise: UNEP Finance Initiative: UN Global Compact LEAD and represented on UN Principles for Responsible Investment, UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance and Caring for Climate working groups: CRO Forum: Consortium for Street Children: UN Women Empowerment Principles: ORC Global Diversity Forum: and Institute of Business Ethics.
80 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Key indicators CR indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 target Trust and transparency Business ethics % of employees signing of receipt, understanding and acceptance New KPI 90% 32% 89% 100% of employees of our Business Ethics Code on an annual basis % of employees completing the Bribery and Corruption training New KPI 79% n a 89% 100% of employees Customers % of businesses that are in or above the upper quartile relative to the 17% 50% 50% 52% Maintain or improve past performance local market average NPS score % of employees who rate us favourably on customer index New KPI 67% 69% 73% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 75% Climate change and environment % of remaining CO2 emissions offset annually 100% 100% 100% 100% Offset remaining CO2 emissions at group level CO2 emissions tonnes absolute 177,077 154,726 148,251 165,115 CO2 emissions tonnes relative n an a153,013 148,404 Reduce relative CO2 emissions by 5% Water consumption m absolute 843,750 751,750 690,369 509,657 Reduce water use by 4% Waste generated tonnes absolute 19,311 11,812 12,042 8,995 Reduce waste generated by 4% Proportion of recycled waste 84% 79% 75% 73% 80% or above % of employees who feel that Aviva makes business choices that New KPI 62% 71% 76% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 60% support the environment Attracting and retaining talent % of women in senior management 22% 22% 21% 20% Increase percentage of women in senior management group % of employees who feel that Aviva is committed to attracting, developing New KPI 52% 62% 70% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 70% and keeping a diverse workforce % of employees who feel that they are treated with respect, regardless of New KPI 67% 69% 75% Improve past performance no GFS their position benchmark % of employees who feel we have created an environment where people New KPI New KPI 73% 78% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 77% with diverse backgrounds can succeed % of employees who rate us favourably on leadership index New KPI 66% 64% 70% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 70% % of employees who rate us favourably on engagement index New KPI 64% 63% 68% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 73% Suppliers % of managed supply spend where supplier signed code of behaviour New KPI New KPI New KPI 31% % of managed supply spend where supplier has successfully completed New KPI New KPI New KPI New KPI To be reported on from 2012 the CR element of the supplier process Number of business units that use the supplier hospitality register and 511 15 19 18 register of interests Developing communities Amount of community investment 9.6m 8.0m 11.4m 12.4m Total community investment at above previous year % of employees participating in volunteering New KPI 16% 17% 20% Increase the % of employee participation in volunteering Number of employee hours spent volunteering 67,700 79,900 57,250 60,390 Increase the % of employee participation in volunteering % of investment in Aviva Street to School New KPI New KPI 52% 54% 50% of cash donations % of employees who feel that Aviva does a good job of contributing to the New KPI 62% 66% 76% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 2011: 62% communities in which we live and work Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 81 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Met exceeded 2011 target Missed 2011 target Change Met target over year 2012 target Notes Business ethics: While our target remains at 100% it is inevitable that not all employees will be able to sign the code each year due to maternity leave, sick leave etc.
This year our percentage is below the 57% 100% of employees requirement in Europe due to a delay in roll out of the revised code.
The Bribery and Corruption training was halted in 2010 while the training package was revised to take into account the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
2% Maintain or improve past Customers: Using NPS methodology we calculate the performance of businesses relative to their local performance market.
Our Customer advocacy section on page 85 outlines this further.
4% Meet exceed GFS benchmark GFS stands for the Global Financial Services benchmark.
This is a tough external benchmark that we use as a stretch target.
In the equivalent regional benchmarks we are consistently performing above the benchmark.
In a change from 2010 reporting we have removed Delta Lloyd data from our environmental footprint Offset 100% remaining CO as it is now out of operational control.
2 emissions at group level Absolute CO data The increase in the absolute CO emissions figure for 2011 is due to the following 2 2 factors: updating the electricity conversion factors to the most recent ones available, increasing the scope 11% of our data collection in India to all the office locations.
We have also reported on the electricity 3 % Reduce relative CO2 emissions by 5% consumption from the UK outsourced data centre for the first time since its sale in 2009, the CO emission 2 equivalent from waste to landfill and water, our businesses in Indonesia, and Aviva Investor businesses 26 % Reduce water use by 4% in Luxembourg and Singapore.
RAC was sold at the end of Q3 2011 and therefore our data reflects its 25 % Reduce waste generated by 4% consumption for the first three quarters only.
2 % 80% or above Relative CO data The relative comparison uses the 2011 basis for reporting as above, adjusted 2 for structural changes and businesses that did not report in 2010 Baseline change Our long-term carbon reduction target used a baseline year of 2006, the first year of reporting on the RAC, our target was an absolute 30% reduction to 2020.
By the end of 2010 we had achieved a 10% reduction to the target.
As RAC emissions accounted for 17% of our overall emissions, we have revised our baseline to 2010.
As a result our new baseline is 151,531 tonnes of CO. 2 5% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 1 % Increase percentage of women People: While we have improved in most of these KPIs against our own performance, our targets are in senior management group external benchmarks which we are working towards.
The data for this index has been restated to allow accurate comparisons across the following four 8% Meet exceed GFS benchmark questions: 1 Aviva group's leadership has communicated a vision of the future that motivates me.
6% Improve past performance 2 I understand the goals of our Aviva vision.
no GFS benchmark 3 The senior leadership team of my business unit provides a clear sense of direction.
4 I trust the senior leadership team in my part of the business.
5% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 6% Meet exceed GFS benchmark 5% Meet exceed GFS benchmark n a Suppliers: We have increased the amount of suppliers signing the code of conduct, however, we have found that some suppliers are reluctant to sign a code as it is not a legal document.
Therefore, we are implementing a code of behaviour alongside minimum contractual clauses for new contracts from Q2 n a 2011, to address some of this issue.
1 This data does not include European claims data.
These KPIs have been revised in 2011 in light of our changing processes.
9% Total community investment at above previous year 3% Increase the % of employee participation in volunteering 5% Increase the % of employee participation in volunteering 2% 50% 10% Meet exceed GFS benchmark
