The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 53 People Global excellence Diversity and inclusion Our mission is to create an ever more inclusive environment through Our success relies on the valuable skills of our people.
We continue to operate to global governance frameworks and standards which regulate ensuring that we treat people fairly, with respect and value all aspects of diversity.
Strategies to achieve this aim are endorsed at Board level how we manage and treat our employees around the world.
We are expanding the reach of these frameworks by establishing shared global and promulgated throughout our organisation.
This is achieved by a range of initiatives and monitoring.
These initiatives include training for practices across our businesses.
Our key areas of focus are: all employees, workplace and working practice adjustments for persons with disabilities, company sponsored employee resource groups and Attraction, engagement and performance We recognise that successful employment relationships rely on an annual global scheme celebrating the significant contribution from female colleagues.
We are, therefore, clear and open about the skills and commitment we look for in new colleagues.
We encourage applications We are proud that many of our initiatives have received external recognition from a diverse range of people and use selection techniques that support individuals in showing us what they can bring to Barclays, paying around the world, but recognise there is more to be accomplished.
For example, we are monitoring diversity and inclusion progress year on year particular regard to the aptitudes of persons with disabilities.
and, by leveraging our merit-based approach to appointments.
We aim to ensure that our Board is diverse in every sense of the word with particular The drive for individuals to be their best continues after joining our team.
Our suite of communication channels cover internal and external topics aspirations for female representation at this level.
that matter to our people and raise their awareness of the financial and economic factors that affect how Barclays operates now and in the future.
Health and safety The health and safety of our employees and customers is important to These include global and location-specic intranets, news magazines and briengs from Executive and local Leaders to ensure the widest possible Barclays.
It is an integral part of the duties of line managers to manage all health and safety issues within their areas of responsibility.
Two-way communication is maintained by regular Employee Opinion Surveys with follow-through of the outcomes at all levels of our have access to specialist resources for advice and guidance to support them in discharging their health and safety responsibilities.
organisation and by consultation with our recognised unions and work councils internationally.
These enable the views of our people to be taken We consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and into account in corporate decisions affecting their interests.
We encourage their involvement and personal commitment, including working closely with employee representatives.
Assessment of performance is not only about what is achieved: how it is achieved is equally important.
Resources for both personal and Barclays is committed to promoting a working environment where health professional development are provided to employees in addition to mandatory training on policies and regulatory responsibilities.
Employees and safety is a fundamental part of the culture.
regularly review, with their managers, their performance and development needs and, typically, twice a year, a performance rating is communicated.
Financial incentives are based on individuals performance ratings and the performance of their business.
As an extra means of encouraging our people to be involved and to share in our success, we regularly invite them to participate in our share options and share purchase schemes.
Further details of our approach to remuneration are included in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 65.
Employees by geographic segment full time equivalent Global employment statistics % Africa and 52.1 2011 UK Europe Americas Middle East Asia Total % of female employees 52.0 2010 2011 56,100 11,600 10,900 47,900 14,600 141,100 % of senior executives 10.5 10.7 who are female 2010 58,100 13,600 11,500 50,400 13,900 147,500 % of senior managers 21.5 23.7 who are female % of employees working 8.4 8.2 part-time 17.
4 Turnover rate 16.9 10.0 Resignation rate 10.5 The definition for senior executives has been re-calibrated to achieve greater consistency across the different business areas.
The 2010 published percentage has been revised to reflect this change.
