20 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Business review Corporate responsibility Caledonia considers the impact of its business A formal performance appraisal process, through in the following areas: which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives Marketplace assessed at the end of the year, is intended to As an investment company, we are committed to a ensure that employees have a clear view of their long term investment strategy and to maintaining performance and the ability to develop their effective relationships with those companies in potential within the company through additional which we invest.
We generally hold a board seat in training where necessary.
Together with team our significant investments and use this to maintain meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides a close relationship with managements of those staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in companies.
Additionally, we hold frequent meetings the success of the business.
with managements and review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
Community Caledonia encourages employees to support local We also make considered use of our voting rights.
voluntary organisations and charitable causes and As a consequence of our involved investment style, provides matched sponsorship to their fundraising we would expect to vote in line with management activities.
This and other charitable donations made recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or at the companys own initiation in the year vote against recommendations where we consider amounted to 60,800. they are not in the interests of our shareholders.
The company also supports the work of the Royal We continue to meet with our institutional and Horticultural Society and contributions to the individual shareholders and listen to any concerns RHSs campaigns to promote gardening, through they may have.
sponsorship of the RHS Chelsea Flower Show Workplace Charity Gala Preview, amounted to 103,200 Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to in the year.
protect employees from unlawful discrimination, Environment offer them a working environment where they have Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and However, any measures taken to reduce this respect, and support high standards of conduct impact demonstrate the companys commitment and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring to improve the environment and can have direct that the company meets applicable health and benefits through reductions in costs for energy safety standards and treats disabled employees and consumables.
A number of measures have in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These been and will be taken in this area: policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining encouragement of the use of electronic and periodically thereafter.
communications to save paper, printing consumables and energy In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally usage of video-conferencing and telephone or informally, there are formal whistleblowing conference calls rather than travelling to arrangements in place, which enable members meetings of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding recycling of office waste, used paper and possible impropriety in the conduct of the other consumables.
companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
