Close Brothers Group plc 42 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Responsibility Introduction understanding of the different businesses and operating The groups focus on corporate responsibility CR is functions.
underpinned by its commitment to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
This includes recognising the Training and development needs of different stakeholders such as customers, The group remains committed to the training and employees and investors as well as being involved with and development of all its employees, recognising the supporting local communities.
importance of the workforce to the performance of the group.
Employees participated in a formal annual The group has developed clear business principles and performance review where performance is measured against guidelines to ensure CR objectives are met and integrity is agreed objectives.
The reviews also cover the employees maintained throughout all its divisions.
It is the responsibility development and training requirements which are discussed of each of the divisions to implement the groups CR and documented.
During the year, divisional training objectives in their day-to-day activities and ensure they are programmes have been introduced to develop managers widely communicated across the divisions.
and cover core management skills such as communication, recruitment and performance management.
A CR committee was established in 2010 and is chaired by a member of the executive committee.
The committee Employee benefits includes representatives from across the divisions and All divisions offer pension and life assurance to all UK based provides a forum for sharing ideas and raising awareness of permanent employees and an employee assistance the groups CR objectives.
During the year, it continued to programme giving employees and their immediate families focus on employee engagement and contribution to the the ability to discuss work, health or family matters community and has made some significant progress in these confidentially.
The group promotes its SAYE scheme to all areas, in particular conducting the employee opinion survey eligible UK based employees and approximately one third of and increasing involvement in the Give As You Earn GAYE all staff participate in the scheme.
Health and safety The group also recognises the importance of embedding All divisions have health and safety policies which are broader CR principles into the businesses including acting communicated through the health and safety representatives responsibly with customers, as well as monitoring and to staff via induction packs, staff handbooks or the intranet.
minimising its impact on the environment.
Responsible Finance Employees The group recognises its CR in all aspects of its lending to Equal opportunities and diversity and dealing with customers.
Its priority is to agree optimum The group remains committed to providing equal lending solutions through working closely with its clients and opportunities to its employees and values diversity amongst maintaining relationships.
This is with regard to both recruitment of new talent and to the promotion and development of existing Treating customers fairly TCF employees.
This is supported by the divisional Recruitment TCF is core to the groups business culture and has been and Equal Opportunity policies which encourage equality of embedded within the group.
The group has formal TCF opportunity regardless of race, gender, age, disability, sexual policies which document the minimum standards that are orientation or religion.
required, to ensure the TCF concepts work effectively.
Divisional boards approve the policies for their relevant Employee opinion survey businesses and review TCF heatmaps at board meetings.
The group values communication and feedback with its The scope and content of TCF reporting is subject to review employees and as planned conducted a group wide at least annually and all staff are given TCF training which is Employee Opinion Survey in December 2010.
This provided appropriate for their role.
employees with the opportunity to give honest and confidential feedback on their views of the group and how it Complaint handling operates.
The group made a charitable donation for each Understanding and dealing with complaints from customers survey completed and achieved a response rate of 80%.
is a priority for the businesses to ensure customers are fully Whilst the survey identified that employee engagement is a satisfied and concerns are appropriately addressed.
strength, it also identified areas for improvement, in particular Complaint handling processes are regularly monitored by with regard to employee communication.
In response to this compliance teams and improvements are made where feedback, dedicated internal communication teams were necessary to ensure regulatory requirements are followed established and action plans agreed to address this which where appropriate and good practice prevails across the include using the intranet to communicate more widely, businesses.
distributing divisional newsletters, providing regular business updates and lunch and learn sessions to improve Close Brothers Group plc 43 Annual Report 2011 Anti-bribery and corruption Waste reduction and recycling The group is committed to operating with the highest In line with the groups efforts to improve waste management standards of ethical and professional conduct.
The groups and recycling facilities, it continues to recycle toners, paper anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all employees and general waste.
and is regarded as the minimum standard for all businesses.
The group adheres to the Bribery Act 2010 and during the Community year all employees have been given appropriate training.
The group encourages all staff to participate in the Group compliance, group risk and group internal audit will, community and support charitable causes and offers a through their reviews and audits, ensure that anti-bribery number of opportunities for involvement.
policies and procedures are followed across the group.
Charitable donations Anti-money laundering During the year, the group has established a charitable The group complies with all applicable anti-money partnership with The Princes Trust and for the first time held laundering regulations and appropriate know your a number of group wide fundraising events.
customer procedures are carried out for each customer with or for whom the group conducts business.
Each of the Give As You Earn groups regulated entities has a dedicated money laundering The group continues to promote the GAYE scheme.
reporting officer and compliance officer and regular training Participation in the scheme has increased to 11% 2010: 10% is provided to staff to raise awareness.
of all group employees, and the group achieved a Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award in April 2011 in recognition Whistleblowing of the strong participation rate.
The group seeks to achieve the highest possible standards of openness and accountability.
This is communicated Volunteering through a whistleblowing policy which states employees The group encourages employees to volunteer in projects to responsibilities on this matter and protects those employees help make a difference in local communities.
The group will who expose wrongdoing.
shortly be promoting staff participation in a school reading partnership project which is a ten week project where staff Environment volunteer their time to read with children from a Tower As the group continues to grow, it recognises the increasing Hamlets school in London.
The group intends to continue importance of ensuring it minimises the impact of its promoting further opportunities for employee volunteering.
Matched giving Energy consumption and carbon management In order to encourage both individual and team fundraising The group aims to reduce its energy consumption and efforts, during the year the group has introduced a policy carbon footprint of its electricity and contribute to the UK offering support for staff involved in fundraising.
This commitment of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
matched giving policy offers employees the chance to have 30% of the raised amount, up to a maximum of 250, Following an energy audit in September 2008 at the groups matched by the group.
head office, 10 Crown Place, a further audit took place in July 2010 which identified potential energy savings which are As a result of this, and increased involvement in the GAYE now being implemented, including a more formal energy scheme, the group donated 228,500 2010: 281,000 to management process to monitor and maintain efficiencies.
Of this, approximately 25% was third party energy management company has also been contributed by matched funding schemes for employees and appointed to assist with the provision of energy market the remainder through direct group contributions.
information and support the groups head office in energy purchasing and carbon management reporting.
Work experience The group continues to offer two work experience As part of the groups compliance with the Carbon programmes throughout the year.
These provide young Reduction Committee Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC, an students and school children with the opportunity to work in information disclosure has been made on the CRC Registry.
various departments within the group, gaining practical The group is not required to report any future emissions data experience of a financial services group.
or purchase allowances for the remainder of this phase of the scheme.
