28 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
Bodycote plc 29 Annual Report 2011 Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the companys growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector and wider society.
Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,500 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and tothe automotive, skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 228.5m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance Which in turn p Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products p Supports businesses and protectslives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments andemployment.
Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total Group income and other tax amounts to 89.5m for the year.
indd 29 14 03 2012 12:45 Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review 30 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Our approach Water consumption Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns thousand m m sales through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.85 1.70 1.67 are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving management of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations 2009 2010 2011 are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
Our people The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one of Chlorinated solvents the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of kg m sales appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed 209.1 international team that is well respected in technical and business 154.2 circles.
Most acquisitions have been based on historical relationships with Bodycote personnel, which reflects the integrity of the Groups people.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people n a both at local and group level.
At local level the Company is 2009 2010 2011 committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
At group level a number of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive 1 Accident frequency excellence in management.
1.9 An initiative to build further understanding and skill in the area of 1.8 1.7 performance management is underway and being cascaded globally through the management population.
Through communication of clear messages coupled with skill development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a new performance management IS system which supports the process.
2009 2010 2011 Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, sexualorientation or nationality.
Carbon footprint tonne CO2e m sales Customers and suppliers 698.5 Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent 665.5 606.3 upon the Groups business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal obligations.
We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers building long-term relationships.
2009 2010 2011 Community During 2011 Bodycote launched a campaign to raise funds for the Japanese Red Cross, following the devastating earthquake and ISO 14001 accredited facilities tsunami which hit the country.
We encouraged our staff to make % adonation, which the Group matched.
The funds were donated directly to the Japanese Red Cross to assist those working to rebuild homes and communities.
81 81 77 2009 2010 2011 1 The accident rate for 2011 includes data for some regions that were previously not reported.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked.
Bodycote plc 31 Annual Report 2011 environment responsible business ethics A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
and gas consumption and re-use energy.
The continuing focus on Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their lessening its impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote personal interests do not at any time conflict with those of advancing towards ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities, Bodycote.
Shareholder employees are advised of and comply with most of the Group having already achieved this standard.
Further efficiencies are always being sought, and to this end a Bodycote has systems in place designed to ensure compliance global project is underway to implement an active energy with all applicable laws and regulations and conformity with all management system within Bodycote globally.
Through metering relevant codes of business practice.
Further, Bodycote does individual processes and equipment, it will be possible to compare notmake political donations.
similar processes at different sites and to identify opportunities With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a toreduce energy use.
The Group does not employ At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing unfair trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within cycle, our operational aim is to lessen the overall impact on the the requirements of the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of our from either giving or receiving any inducements.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used which is operated around the clock so as to optimise thermal throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their processing cycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be concern orally or in writing and in confidence to an independent using older technology in-house and running their equipment at third party provider to ensure anonymity.
Reports are transcribed reduced capacity, both of which are a drain on energy resources.
and sent to the Vice President Risk and Business Processes, Working with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more whothen passes the matter to the appropriate individual in easily to carbon reduction initiatives.
Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of its customers A Bribery Training site has been put in place, translated into activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving themajor languages used throughout the Group, and relevant metallurgical properties and enhancing corrosion resistance.
employees approximately 15% of our workforce have completed Forexample, surface treatment technology is widely used in the interactive course.
We have also reviewed our Competition thereclamation of damaged and worn components, offering Law training and are in the process of putting a similar training acost-effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to sitein place.
manufacture new replacement parts, and treated parts often lastup to twenty times longer than the original.
Operational SHe performance Bodycote is committed to building and maintaining a high reliability So, whilst thermal processing is an energy intensive business, organisation: one that delivers consistently high performance itisa vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves across all aspects of safety, health and environmental SHE theenergy it consumes many times over.
Its objective is to be known for the excellence of KPI ISO 14001 accredited facilities itsSHE performance in all of its business activities and at all ofitssites.
Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO Safety and health 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are at Bodycotes locations.
At the end of 2011, 81% of our plants had regularly exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to achieved ISO 14001 accreditation 139 plants out of a total of 171. manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees through the deployment of a robust safety management system, Carbon footprint and water consumption which includes appropriate policies and procedures.
Total CO2e emissions per m sales decreased by 9% in 2011 and KPI accident frequency lost-time injury rate water usage per m sales decreased by 2%.
The Groups total CO2 emission data is based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, Although Bodycote has reduced its lost-time accident rate by as defined by the UK Governments Department for Environment, 30%over the past five years, it recognises the need to improve.
Food and Rural Affairs, and data relating to this has been Arevitalised global improvement strategy has been initiated, calculated to include country-specific electricity conversion which will focus on all aspects of the safety management system, factors.
An important element of this isthe role of leadership, including the active engagement of Chlorinated solvent use managers at all levels in managing safety, whilst recognising that The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing all employees have responsibilities for their own safety and the activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing safety of others.
In 2011 the overall solvent use decreased by 16% compared with the previous year, including thecomplete cessation of methylene chloride use.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review 32 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued A greener, cleaner environment Reducing any detrimental impact on the environment has become a growing focus of industry worldwide and Bodycote can assist with the drive towards carbon reduction and environmentally friendly approaches in a number of ways.
For example, certain heat treatment and thermally sprayed surface treatments are leading the way in the replacement ofolder, less environmentally friendly processes such as chrome plating.
Future restrictions that will be placed on chrome plating due to health and environmental issues have led many businesses, including the major aerospace companies, to embark on initiatives to replace it.
These companies have identified thermal spray coatings as the preferred replacement for chrome plating.
Bodycote has been involved in a number of initiatives to replacechrome plate and results have shown that, in addition totheenvironmental benefits, thermally sprayed tungsten carbideoutperforms hard chrome plate for both wear and corrosion protection.
Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium and titanium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can now be lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to improved efficiency and reduced fuelconsumption of products in service.
