16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 20 20 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility CR the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website.
A CR commitment summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of governance and corporate citizenship.
We recognise that in addition Marketplace to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also have F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage with responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve companies in which we invest and the wider community in which business performance.
F&C intends to achieve 435 milestones we operate.
being an instance in which a company improves its policies, procedures or practices following engagement and where F&Cs CR strategy participation has been a major factor in 2012.
The Group has two overarching strategic CR ambitions: F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent.
of global dynamics in the world economy through our products and resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish through influencing companies to improve business its voting history.
following an abstention or vote against management.
To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of corporate responsibility in our own operations.
Environment F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is committed to We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions.
Over the ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent.
of its energy usage We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
the targets set within each category, both internally on a quarterly F&C will source 100 per cent.
of its paper from chlorine free recycled basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs CR policies are guided supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent.
and increase its by a number of broadly accepted international standards and own recycling by 20 per cent.
Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of our progress and publish these results.
F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on the effect that water and waste management has on the environment.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our relative CR performance.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its influence to the companies in which it invests.
External validation 2010 Existing 2012 Examples of some of our 2011 community or charity position position target events BITC Corporate Gold Platinum Platinum 75 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Responsibility Index status status status Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion Barnardos.
UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion Throughout 2011, 38 members of staff based in Edinburgh Compact CCP participated in a variety of volunteering events which included Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member painting and gardening at three local primary schools.
Project Principles for Founding Founding Founding 6 members of staff in the London office participated in the London Responsible signatory signatory signatory Marathon, raising funds for a variety of charities, including British Investment Heart Foundation, Parkinsons UK and Arthritis Care.
More than 20 members of staff based in the UK volunteered for a F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, variety of events held by the Charity of the Year, Back Up Trust.
employees, suppliers, government and non-government organisations, the wider community, other asset management 5 members of the Dublin office participated in a volunteering project, companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely painting a residence for a previously homeless single parent.
with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue tailored to meet the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found in 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 21 Corporate responsibility key performance indicators Category KPI statistic 2011 performance 2012 targets Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100% Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management 100% 100% reo engagement successes in year 480 435 Community Staff participation in Give as You Earn 12% 15% Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 235 475 Staff volunteering for community projects 90 staff days 365 staff days Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5% Workplace Diversity training staff coverage 100% 100% Workplace How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own workplace issues.
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, in 2012, target top throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee, decile employee participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
of employees on the importance of recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
Alain Grisay David Logan F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate 23 March 2012 23 March 2012 all-employee share schemes.
Community F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers employees time off work to support charitable activities.
In 2012 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community work.
of employees participating in the Give As You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set monthly level.
