Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Corporate social responsibility receiving paper valuations and contract The Board considers that the environmental risk from direct actions notes.
Instead these documents are now taken by the Group is minimal, and that the main social responsibility available in electronic format through our focus should be on the Groups clients and staff, including improving secure website.
Our investment in this the financial capability of the UK public.
Information on the Groups area will continue and we aim to further reduce the amount of paper we use whilst employment policies and client service is detailed in the Directors providing better service.
The benefits will Report: other information section.
We appreciate the need to grow as more people and businesses continually reduce the impact of our business on the environment and choose to transact business and receive we aim to improve on the positive steps we have already taken and information online.
ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken As at 30 June 2011 39% of our Vantage into account in our future decision making.
clients were registered as paperless whereby they receive all contract notes and statements online 30 June 2010: Improving financial capability mean that we have to participate in the 33%.
The Board agreed in 2009 to provide Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC support of 30,000 p. a. for five years to a Energy Efficiency Scheme.
This scheme 83% of equity deals were placed online in project that, like our own business, seeks was compulsory for UK organisations that the year to 30 June 2011 compared to to encourage savings and financial consumed over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly 79% in the previous year.
The supported project metered electricity for the period January provides these services in deprived areas 2008 to December 2008.
During that We are also aiming to automate other within Bristol.
period we consumed well below that level processes such as ISA and SIPP transfers.
and for the year-ended 30 June 2011 we These currently involve movement of Putting clients first had consumed only 3,058 MWh.
Although paperwork between various parties There is a culture in the business that has we do not set a formal target for the around the United Kingdom.
The aim existed for many years to which all reduction in electricity consumption the would be to ultimately get such transfers employees adhere to.
At the heart of the ethos of the company is such that we all processed online and we are actively culture is to always put the client first.
always try to keep energy consumption to pushing for a workable solution that will This culture is nurtured and conveyed to a minimum.
enable an automated online transfer all new employees and existing employees process.
As part of this culture Business travel is another area which we actively monitor all areas of the impacts both our costs and the Recycling business via monthly and quarterly environment.
We do not provide company We continue to shred and recycle reporting to ensure that we are Treating cars as standard to managers or to our confidential waste and have arrangements Clients Fairly.
These advisers are for the collection of recyclable waste such spread throughout the UK which as printer toner cartridges, cardboard, One way to ensure that we are getting minimises travel time and carbon plastics, newspapers and out-of-date things right with clients is to listen to them emissions.
We provide a telephone advice literature.
We also continue to recycle and the changes they would like to see to service to handle those cases where a redundant IT equipment through our services.
We also conduct client face-to-face meeting is unnecessary.
satisfaction surveys and the most recent one in June 2011 revealed that 96% rated Eciency and minimising Communities our service as good or better.
environmental impact The Group essentially seeks to contribute In many respects, our objective of to the communities in which we live and Reducing energy consumption reducing waste and minimising the work.
In addition to providing Our newly built office has chilled beam environmental impact of our business is employment opportunities, we continue to air conditioning, which is up to 60% more aligned with our objectives of protecting support the local community initiative to energy efficient and also utilises client data, reducing costs, and improving promote financial capability as described technology to manage lighting in a efficiency.
It is our aim to deal with clients above.
The Group also make significant manner which minimises wastage.
We and other businesses electronically tax payments which help society as a will continue to introduce energy-efficient wherever possible and we have invested whole.
Corporation and payroll taxes paid schemes and look at ways of optimising heavily in providing a user friendly, in respect of the year ended 30 June 2011 the energy performance of our business comprehensive website and automated were over 48 million 2010: 39 and in reducing our electricity usage.
Our links to banks and fund providers.
We million in addition to other taxes such as electricity usage is not high enough to provide the facility for clients to opt out of VAT, stamp duty and business rates.
26 Back to contents As the UK approaches the momentous occasion of hosting the 2012 Olympics the Group decided to support a grass-roots sports club.
A monthly donation is made to the Bristol & West Athletics Club which is the leading all round athletics club in The sponsorship and the the Southwest of England, providing subsequent auction proceeds coaching and competition for the widest from the sculpture will go to range of events, for all age groups and all Bristols Wallace & Gromit abilities throughout the year.
appeal which supports the We have sponsored a sculpture of a gorilla Bristol Childrens Hospital.
which is exhibited at the entrance to our office.
This is in recognition of Bristol Zoos 175th birthday.
The sponsorship and the subsequent auction proceeds from the sculpture will go to Bristols Wallace & Gromit appeal which supports the Bristol Childrens Hospital.
As with last year we are again supporting two teams of staff from Hargreaves Lansdown who are competing in the Invesco Perpetual Highland Adventure Race in September of this year.
This is a challenging event, facilitating team bonding whilst raising money for the Mitchemp Trust, which aims to provide outdoor adventure programmes for youths in order to help give them hope, confidence and life skills to meet the challenges in their lives.
Every year we receive many requests for support from a wide range of charitable and social groups.
Though often very worthy causes, unfortunately we are not able to make a donation to them all.
Other than the above, we have made it company policy to support only one charity or non-profit organisation each year which is selected from suggestions received from employees within the Group.
During the first part of the financial year we continued to support last years chosen charity, Bristols Under Privileged Childrens Charity and from February 2011 the new chosen charity was Cots for Tots.
This is being run by the Wallace & Gromit appeal and is aiming to raise 1 million for the special care baby unit.
All of our fund raising initiatives are now focused on this charity.
Total donations to charity for the yearended 30 June 2011 were 51,000 2010: 30,000.
27 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
