Corporate Social Responsibility The business of the Company is to make investments in Disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed by the infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage the Board working with the Investment Adviser and through dialogue portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for with shareholders, the level and type of disclosure is developed and shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of the Company Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have been put and its investments.
in place by the Group and its service providers to manage the Group effectively and minimise risk.
Managing the Portfolio Day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is undertaken by As part of good practice and to mitigate risk, the Board has in place the Investment Adviser in its capacity as Operator of the Partnership.
a set of Environmental, Social and Governance policies appropriate for a company investing in infrastructure assets, which conform to Environmental current good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
All of the Groups investments are in project companies who provide services to their clients and who subcontract the provision of these The Companys Environmental, Social and Governance ESG services to specialist facilities management companies.
policies cover: On a routine basis, the Investment Adviser undertakes a review to how the Company interacts with stakeholders, including ensure that each key contractor or their group has appropriate shareholders: environmental policies in place and that these are being adhered to in delivery of the services to the project and that further, there what ESG considerations need to be made before a new have been no material breaches of their policies.
During the year investment is acquired: and these reviews have found no issues of concern.
how the current portfolio is managed by the Investment Adviser to promote and achieve good ESG practices.
The Investment Advisers asset managers continue to take a proactive approach to work with both clients and key stakeholders to Annual Review introduce new environmental initiatives in each project company The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance of its where appropriate.
service providers in the last 12 months and can confirm compliance with its stated ESG policies, details of which are given below.
The Social and Ethical Directors have considered whether these ESG policies need updating The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for when compared to good industry practice as applicable to an environmental in that each key contractors policies will be infrastructure Investment Company and believe them to be current reviewed and their ongoing compliance to their stated policies and appropriate.
In addition, the Investment Advisers team will ensure that the project companies in which the Group has Governance investments are run appropriately in relation to the Groups social The Board remains committed to the highest standards of corporate and ethical policies.
governance and keeps the Companys practices under review with respect to current best practice.
Further details of how the Company Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored and complies are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
during the year a number of Health and Safety audits were carried out by a Health and Safety consultant to ensure procedures and The Board wishes to be at the forefront of disclosure and reporting policies were in place and being adhered to.
Information on Health of the Companys performance and strategic intentions.
The and Safety is reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Board believe this is achieved by the detailed information provided as follows: Governance Apart from the single investment in a debt instrument of a water Annual reports company repaid in April 2011, for all the other investments in the Interim statement and accounts portfolio, the Group is entitled to appoint at least one director and members of the Investment Advisers team have been Detailed presentations to accompany the results appointed.
Board meetings are not quorate without the Groups Two Interim Management Statements a year nominated director being present and this is part of the Investment Announcements of all material acquisitions Advisers active management of the underlying investments.
All Lunches and meetings with shareholders, the Directors and the directors fees paid by the projects are for the benefit of the Group, Investment Adviser and not the Investment Adviser.
The Companys new website www.
com has further background All the project companies have detailed governance structures detail on each investment, copies of all publications, together with including those matters which are reserved to shareholders to all prospectuses since launch.
determine, those items which directors determine and the routine day-to-day matters that are delegated to the projects general manager and his or her team.
44 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 Making New Investments The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and approval processes in relation to the making of new investments.
These include appropriate ESG checks as part of the due diligence processes.
Environmental As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment Adviser and the advisers, the history of the investment in relation to the Companys environmental policies will be assessed.
Key contractors and service providers are analysed to check they have appropriate policies in place and that there have been no breaches.
Where it is not possible to get comfortable with either a key contractors environmental record or the projects environmental performance to date, the investment will not be made.
There were no circumstances in the year where this was the case.
Social and Ethical The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for environmental in that each key contractors policies will be reviewed as part of the due diligence process.
The trading history of the investment will also be reviewed to ensure compliance with the Groups social and ethical policies.
All acquisitions made during the year were subject to these reviews and checks and no material matters were identified.
Governance In seeking new investments, the Investment Adviser normally seeks a minimum board representation on the underlying investment company, with appropriate voting rights and reserved matters to ensure it will be possible to manage the investment and achieve the projected returns.
It is unlikely that a new investment will be made where this level of control and influence is not achievable.
