Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility Karen fide Segundo Chairman, CSR Committee CSR Committee Summary Terms of Reference Current members The CSR Committee is responsible for: Karen fide Segundo Chairman x reviewing and making appropriate recommendations Ann Godbehere to the Board as regards the Companys management of Dr Gerry Murphy corporate social responsibility CSR and the conduct Kieran Poynter of business in accordance with the Statement of Business Principles: Attendance at meetings in 2011 x monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Meetings Meetings eligible strategy for, and management of, significant social, Name attended to attend environmental and reputational issues: Karen fide Segundo 4 4 x reviewing and monitoring the Groups plans for, and 1 Ann Godbehere 1 1 progress towards, business sustainability: and 2 Dr Ana Maria Llopis 2 2 x monitoring the effectiveness of the CSR governance Dr Gerry Murphy 4 4 process.
Kieran Poynter 4 4 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in December 2010 and minor updates were made with effect Notes: from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available 1.
Ann Godbehere became a member with effect from 24 October 2011. on www.
Dr Ana Maria Llopis ceased to be a member of the Committee following her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the The CSR Committee is authorised by the Board to review CSR Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011. and sustainability activity within the business.
It is authorised The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board members to seek the information it requires from, and require the responsible for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs and Global Operations attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
of management, and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
It is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Committee are available to any Director who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
com boardcommittees British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 68 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information x Environmental, health and safety measures, including Key activities of the CSR Committee measures to improve safety culture behaviour in 2011 throughout the Group and the recommendation The CSR Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2011, for adoption by the Board of a revised Corporate including a meeting held at the beginning of March to Health and Safety Policy.
approve the Companys annual Sustainability Report.
x Adherence to the Groups International Marketing The other specific items considered by it included: Standards and the recommendation for the adoption CSR governance by the Board of specific Marketing Standards for x Feedback and update reports from the regional audit and Snus products.
CSR committees and consideration of CSR-related internal x The continuing work of the Biodiversity Partnership with audit reports and recommendations, including in relation three Non-Governmental Organisations the Tropical to the organisation of the Groups approach to Biology Association, Earthwatch and Fauna & Flora environmental, health and safety issues.
International focusing on biodiversity in agricultural x Following completion of the Control Navigator selflandscapes and the ecosystems on which they depend assessment exercise, an analysis of the results for the in key areas where the Group sources leaf.
CSR controls and the action plans in place to achieve x Initiatives in the area of sustainable agriculture, with a full compliance.
focus on Brazil, including the development of an x A review of the key reputational risks identified in integrated supply chain and initiatives on reduction of the Group Risk Register, the potential impacts and agrochemical use and soil and water management.
consequences of such risks and the current controls x Consideration of a review of the Groups approach in place to address them.
x A continuing review of the potential reputational Sustainability planning and reporting impact arising from incidents of non-compliance x Central and local stakeholder dialogue activities with the Standards of Business Conduct and a review during 2011. and endorsement of the revised Standards of Business Conduct.
x A review of the 2010 Sustainability Report, including a summary of external feedback and proposed CSR policies and compliance enhancements for 2011, and Ernst & Youngs Assurance x Potential risks in the countries where the Group does Management report.
business which are of potential concern from a human rights perspective and the measures and controls in x An assessment of the 2011 goals and commitments for place to mitigate those risks.
Sustainability reporting and progress made against the 2010 goals and commitments.
x Consideration of the measures in place within the Group directed towards eliminating child labour in tobacco growing, including its membership of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation and its efforts to drive high standards from suppliers through its Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRTP programme.
During 2011, the Committee considered the feedback from the Statement of Business Principles external Board evaluation exercise which took place in 2010, Our Statement of Business Principles sets out our expectations including a review of its standard agenda items, and reviewed for the responsible management of the Groups business.
It was and agreed its programme for 2012. developed in 2002 in consultation with stakeholders, supported by the Institute of Business Ethics.
The Statement comprises CSR governance three principles Mutual Benefit, Responsible Product The CSR Committee is supported at regional and local levels Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct and 18 Core through combined audit and CSR committees.
The structure Beliefs which explain in more detail what each principle supports the embedding of CSR and sustainability principles means for the Group.
across the Group and allows performance against those principles to be monitored.
The regional audit and CSR Sustainability reporting committees meet three times annually, and they follow a The Companys Sustainability Reports and, prior to 2008, its standard agenda, in order that materials and issues which are Social Reports have detailed its social, ethical and environmental presented and raised at local and regional level may feed into performance and performance against its commitments Board level discussions, and vice versa.
each year since the Companys first Social Report in 2002.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 69 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate social responsibility continued Sustainability reporting, like the social reporting that preceded Corporate social investment it, is conducted using a robust methodology, including The Company recognises the role of business as a corporate independent assurance conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, in line citizen and Group companies have long supported local with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008.
Engagement with community and charitable projects.
The Groups approach key stakeholders is a major requirement of the Standard and we to corporate social investment CSI is to regard it as an end have continued to hold independently facilitated and assured in itself, rather than as a means of promotion, and Group dialogue with those stakeholders throughout the year.
companies have always been closely identified with the communities where they operate.
The Companys sustainability reporting is based on its sustainability agenda, which was developed in 2007 and focuses on five pillars: Group companies are encouraged to focus their CSI activities harm reduction, marketplace, environment, supply chain and around three themes: people and culture.
Its aim is to create value for the Companys x Sustainable agriculture and the environment: This shareholders and wider society by addressing the Groups social, includes activities such as efforts to improve biodiversity environmental and economic impacts.
and access to water, afforestation, programmes to prevent Starting with the 2009 Report, produced in 2010, a single child labour, grants for agricultural research and training to Sustainability Report has been produced for the Group, help farmers optimise land yields by growing additional including balanced scorecards and case studies from some non-tobacco crops.
These initiatives are expected to of the Groups largest markets.
This approach, together with complement the Groups own agricultural, environmental the information provided on www.
com, aims to provide and biodiversity conservation practices.
comprehensive coverage of the Groups sustainability x Civic life: This encompasses activities that aim to enrich efforts globally.
public and community life, including supporting the arts In March 2011, the Company published its fourth Sustainability and educational institutions, conserving indigenous Report outlining progress in each of the five key elements of its cultures and restoring public spaces.
In March 2012, it is publishing its fifth x Empowerment: This focuses on communities where we Sustainability Report, to coincide with publication of this operate, providing people with educational opportunities Annual Report.
to help them develop, for example through scholarships The Company has taken into account the increasing emphasis and information technology training or programmes that is being placed on integrated financial and non-financial supporting small businesses and promoting entrepreneurship.
We believe that it is important to address Group companies also continue to make other important sustainability issues in the Annual Report, but we also contributions to meet local needs, such as relief efforts after acknowledge that different audiences have differing natural disasters or programmes focused on HIV AIDS.
As a result, we intend to The major activities currently supported by the Company are continue publishing a separate Sustainability Report which the British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership and the covers in more detail progress against our sustainability agenda, Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
including monitoring performance against targets.
In addition to the Sustainability Report and the information provided in this Charitable contributions Annual Report, the Company will continue to publish more Payments for charitable purposes in 2011 amounted to detailed sustainability information on www.
13.7 million 2010: 15.5 million, 1.9 million of which The Company has been included in both the Dow Jones was paid in the UK 2010: 2 million.
Sustainability World Index DJSI World and the Dow Jones OECD Guidelines Sustainability Europe Index DJSI Europe for the tenth year The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries running.
These indices track the economic, environmental and in which it operates and in this context, notes the OECD social performance of companies that have demonstrated that Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
they integrate sustainability into their business.
In 2011, the Our approach to human rights draws on the OECD Guidelines, Company received a gold rating in the UKs Business in the in addition to the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and further Community Corporate Responsibility Index, with a score of 94 information in this respect is provided in our Sustainability per cent.
The Company was also included in the STOXX Global Report.
Full details of a specific finding against our company ESG Leaders Index, an innovative index that uses a transparent in Malaysia under the Guidelines are provided in the full selection process to enable investors to fully understand which online report on www.
environmental, social and governance factors determine a companys rating.
In addition, it won the top award for People Reporting in  Building Public Trust Awards, the judges referring to the quality of people reporting in both the Annual Report, in the context of the Companys business strategy, and the Sustainability Report.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 70
