38 Business review continued Risk governance The risk team monitors an array of qualitative and quantitative measures to The board is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy and risk appetite ensure that the business risks remain within acceptable parameters.
The audit and risk committee is also responsible for approving emphasis is given to the relevance of these measures than to their the appointment, dismissal and compensation of the global head of risk, mathematical sophistication.
Metrics that are robust, easy to explain to the thereby reinforcing the independence of the risk function.
businesses and directly related to their risk profiles are preferred.
Examples include key risk indicators, scenario analysis and credit exposure metrics.
Using The audit and risk committee has delegated the day-to-day risk these measures, the Group produces a number of market, credit and management of the Group to two executive committees: the global operational risk and intelligence reports which are disseminated widely among operating committee GOC and the group risk and capital committee the Groups managers and up to executive management level and the board.
GRACC each of which meet at least six times a year.
The GOC focuses on issues of operational capability across regions and businesses Compliance management including operational, strategic, reputational, legal and compliance The Groups compliance department reports to the group head of matters.
The GRACC responsibilities are centred on the monitoring compliance who in turn reports to the Group Chief Operating Officer.
of liquidity, credit, market and financial risks.
Details of the committees Dedicated compliance departments support the businesses operating in responsibilities are shown on page 52.
EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, each under the leadership of a regional head of compliance.
The group head of compliance is a member of The audit and risk committee, GOC and GRACC have terms of reference the GOC, the GRACC and is a standing attendee at the audit and risk that require all aspects of the Groups risk management activities to be committee.
The risk function reports to the global head of risk and is accountable for managing the risk framework of the Group across all In response to challenges posed by changes to the regulatory environment ICAPs entities and geographies.
and the more intrusive stance of industry regulators, the Group has made a significant investment in the enhancement of the compliance department in The global head of risk is a member of the GOC and the GRACC and is a 2010 11.
These initiatives included the appointment of a group head of standing attendee at the audit and risk committee.
compliance, the realignment of the Groups compliance risk management In addition to the audit and risk committee, GOC and GRACC, all lines of framework, enhancements to compliance methodologies and the business and regions have risk committees which are responsible for recruitment of additional staff.
supervising risk levels in their respective businesses and regions and acting as The Groups compliance department operates under the mandate set by the interface between front office management and the Group risk function.
This mandate, inter alia, establishes the compliance department Risk management as an independent global control and assurance function which implements Day-to-day risk management and mitigation is the responsibility of business and manages ICAPs compliance risk management framework.
Risk management provides support to the businesses with a range framework is designed to provide assurance that ICAPs business is of tools adapted to the size and complexity of the Group and an conducted in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory independent assessment and reporting of risk to senior management.
As such, the framework incorporates the requirements of These tools include: applicable law and published international best practice standards including business advisory support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, R liquidity risk and credit risk limits based on an internal scoring compliance monitoring and surveillance, anti-money laundering compliance system: and reporting and escalation.
R monitoring tools and reports such as dashboards and key risk The Groups compliance department undertakes an annual risk assessment indicators: in each region as the basis for the annual compliance plan for those legal R group and risk policies: entities, desks, offices, business and operating units which will be the subject of compliance review and examination.
ICAPs compliance risk management R controls and procedures: framework is risk based, which means that ICAP assesses and ranks its R risk and control self assessments and process maps: and compliance risks and prioritises its compliance resources accordingly on a Group, regional and business unit basis.
R significant risk assessment and quantification programmes.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 Internal audit 39 The day-to-day business of the Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management systems.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the independent internal audit function.
Internal audit reports to the audit and risk committee and functionally to the Group Finance Director.
Internal audit establishes an annual audit plan based on discussions with management and the assessment of the risks inherent in the Groups activities.
Based on the results from these audits, it provides assurance to executive management and the board that the system of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for improvement.
The internal audit function is outsourced to Ernst & Young.
Financial reporting The Groups finance function is organised on a regional basis under the leadership of the Group Finance Director whose direct reports include the regional chief financial officer for each of EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific, the chief financial officer electronic broking, the group financial controller, the group treasurer, the group head of taxation and the director of finance operations.
This group meets on a monthly basis and is responsible for both the day-to-day management and strategic development of the Groups finance infrastructure together with ensuring that Group policies have been adopted and appropriate controls put in place to enable accurate and timely reporting of consolidated financial information for management, regulatory and statutory purposes.
External reporting, which includes the half and full-year reports and the interim management statements, uses data produced by the regional teams and relies on systems and processes functioning correctly.
To mininise the risk of error, the Group Finance Director requires the business chief executive officers and chief financial officers to provide their assessment of the financial control environment as part of a filing assurance review process before the half-year and full-year report is recommended by the audit and risk committee to the board for external release.
40 Business review continued The use of e-learning continues to be a particular feature, especially in areas Corporate social responsibility of risk management and compliance training and has been used extensively in the year to roll out training to brokers, desk head and infrastructure staff.
Corporate social responsibility is a fundamental part of the It provides an excellent way of monitoring effective delivery of training and Groups business strategy.
It is not conducted as a separate and employees acknowledgement of their awareness of relevant policies and self-contained activity, but is integral to the business and to our their agreement to be bound by them.
We believe that conducting business in an ethical ICAP employs approximately 4,900 people worldwide.
Of this number, and responsible manner creates competitive advantage, more than 2,700 are brokers, sales and customer support staff and almost enabling us to build goodwill and maintain successful working 1,000 are employed in IT roles and product development of our electronic broking platforms.
This year we appointed a global head of human resources relationships with customers, suppliers and regulators as well as and began a process of leveraging best practice consistently across all supporting the global communities in which our employees live geographies and lines of business.
ICAP is a global business reflecting the global nature of the markets in which Our business we operate.
Geographic mobility of the workforce has always been a As an interdealer broker, our principal contribution is to facilitate trading in feature of ICAPs business model and there are increasing opportunities for the wholesale financial markets to help ensure the efficient functioning of people to transfer to other businesses within the Group.
Our trading platforms in electronic markets, ICAP continues to monitor staff efficiency and productivity closely.
Broker together with our post trade risk businesses, are contributing to the shift to compensation is directly linked to commission which varies from desk to more resilient, safer and transparent financial markets.
Profit per broker will depend on the mix of business undertaken.
We believe that our role as a key participant in wholesale financial markets Commission arrangements are structured to ensure no risk remains best positions us to contribute to society, while maximising shareholder outstanding at the time of payment.
As a result, there is no requirement for returns over the long term.
Our board is committed to monitoring our deferral conditions to be attached to commission payments.
approach to corporate social responsibility and is kept updated on progress.
Graduate recruitment As the Group has expanded, ICAP has attracted people with a broad range To ensure a continuing flow of intellectual capital into our business, ICAP is of skills in both technology and in the original broking businesses.
The committed to maintaining and further developing an active Global Graduate brokers and their managers comprise the largest group of the overall staff Recruitment and Training Programme.
and they are required to have very specific skills.
They are highly First launched in 2006, ICAPs entry-level programmes are designed to entrepreneurial, dynamic, team-spirited individuals with extremely strong deliver a steady flow of young developing talent into the business.
Since its networking and interpersonal skills and the ability to excel in a pressurised launch, 176 graduates have joined the Group, with 56 joining in the past environment.
ICAPs ability to attract and retain the highest quality staff and year.
We also offer a range of internship and placement programmes to leverage their intellectual capital is one of the key factors driving the success ensure we attract the best and the brightest early on: successful interns are of our business.
offered full-time positions once they graduate.
Management is committed to the advancement and training of talented Our full-time and internship programmes are available across a number of individuals and to providing an environment that is intellectually challenging, broking businesses globally.
These programmes also include shipbroking, motivating and supportive.
Our increasing investment in staff through post trade risk services, finance, business services, human resources, training, in particular on management and supervisory skills, and on research and risk.
providing market knowledge and product training to the business support functions, has continued this year and has been designed to enhance the In March 2011, the ICAP 2010 graduate recruitment campaign, Heres The support to the broking functions and to ensure our people are able to Deal, was voted the Best Student Marketing Campaign in the TARGETjobs operate effectively in increasingly complex markets and in a changing Awards.
This achievement illustrates ICAPs commitment to its objective of regulatory environment.
becoming a graduate employer of choice.
