Intermediate Capital Group plc 38 Our people Our credit fund managers We take great pride in our ability to continue to attract, develop and retain exceptional staff, and believe it is essential to our ability to reach our full potential as an organisation.
All 128 employees are of the highest calibre in their chosen field and have been attracted by the sense of cultural belonging and purpose at work which ICG offers.
We are a thriving multicultural organisation with our employees coming from 14nationalities, who speak 26 different languages and havemade investments in over 20 countries.
We regularly review our long term compensation and benefits schemes to ensure they are market competitive and that they John Barker align the interests of our employees with our business strategy Funds managed: and the interests of our shareholders.
To this end, a new remuneration scheme was approved by shareholders this year.
Eurocredit CDO III We are committed to encouraging the continuous Eurocredit CDO V development of our employees.
This year 176 training days were Eurocredit CDO VI completed and a total of 25 training and development initiatives Investment experience: were held to support personal development.
These courses 31 years have covered a variety of topics including commercial, technical, compliance, professional, managerial and personal skills.
It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives involved in making or managing investment transactions receive regular compliance training, addressing topics such as anti-money laundering, throughout the course of the year.
Our mezzaine and equity managers All of our employees operate in an office environment and the directors are committed to maintaining and developing a culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees while oncompany premises.
During the year there were no reportable accidents or incidents which occurred either under UK Health and Safety regulations or similar regulations in our offices outside the UK.
Benot Durteste Funds managed: ICG Recovery Fund 2008 Investment experience: 17 years Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 39 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Our credit fund managers Jeff Boswell Garland Hansmann Simon Peatfield Funds managed: Funds managed: Funds managed: Eos Loan Fund I ICG European High Yield Bond Fund I St Pauls CLO I B. V. European Investment Fund I Eurocredit CDO I Eurocredit CDO IV European Investment Fund II Eurocredit CDO II Eurocredit CDO VII ICG European Loan Fund I Eurocredit Opportunities I Eurocredit CDO VIII Investment experience: Eurocredit Opportunities Parallel Fund I Investment experience: 14 years 12 years Investment experience: 16 years Our mezzaine and equity managers Chris Heine Piers Millar Rolf Nuijens Funds managed: Funds managed: Funds managed: Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific ICG Minority Partners Fund 2008 ICG Mezzanine Fund II 2000 MezzanineFund 2005 Investment experience: ICG Mezzanine Fund III 2003 Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific 19 years ICG European Fund IV 2006 Fund 2008 Investment experience: Investment experience: 17 years 23 years
