Intermediate Capital Group plc 40 Corporate social responsibility ICG works closely with a number of financial Our investors and financial partners partners, including private equity firms, commercial We are committed to ensuring we are as transparent banks and other financial institutions.
We seek as possible with all our investors.
This includes partners who operate based on an ethical, responsible financial transparency, by improving continually the approach to their business activities and who are amount and timeliness of financial disclosure: and themselves following sustainable business practices.
governance transparency, enabling our investors to ICG seeks to be the partner of choice in all our understand, assess and hold accountable our directors.
We recognise that we must offer In this way we believe we are able to cultivate a collaborative, solutions-based approach which mutual understanding and appreciation which in allows us to better serve our partners specific needs.
turn reinforces our positive reputation and brand ICG actively promotes high ethical standards in all sustainability.
To support this we have strengthened our business relationships and undertakes to be our Investor Management Group, who have further open, honest and consistent in every transaction.
enhanced the level of service that we provide to We aim to be best in class when it comes to delivering ourfund investors, and the quality and depth of the financing know-how and service necessary for information they receive around their investments.
our financial partners to be successful.
Our commitment to our investors extends to our actions as an investor ourselves.
As such, we Community seek to invest in companies who act responsibly, and who comply with environmental, regulatory and Environment social legislation.
As minority partners in virtually all Corporate social responsibility ICG operates a of our investments, we do not have direct operational corporate Give As You Earn scheme and encourages control over the companies in which we invest, but employees to give their time to charities.
To support nevertheless we seek to influence their behaviour this each employee has two paid days a year for and to ensure that their ethos, corporate structures direct charity involvement.
and policies are sustainable and in line with good Charities and events we have supported over corporate governance practice.
the past year include: Trees for Cities Trees for Cities is an independent charity working with local communities on tree planting and landscaping projects.
Their aim is to tackle global warming, create social cohesion and beautify ourcities through tree planting, community education and training initiatives in urban areas ofgreatest need.
org Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 01-07 41 Business review Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 PEF World Cup 2010 The Private Equity Foundation PEF is a foundation backed by private equity firms and their advisers.
Their mission is to empower young people by investing both money and expertise from the private equity community to help excellent charities achieve a significant change in their impact.
Ouremployees support PEF throughout the course of the year, most recently in the PEF World Cup.
Managing Director Tom Attwood joined the PEF board in October 2010. www.
org ICG Run to the Beat 2010 A number of our runners took part in the Run tothe Beat half marathon in September.
Running fortwo ICG runners after completing the Run to the Beat half marathon in September charities, Enfants du Mkong and the Private Equity where they raised 22,846 for ICG sponsored charities.
Foundation, the team came in with some very respectable times, the fastest of which was 1 hour 35.
More importantly, they raised 11,423 which ICG then matched.
com Spitalfields City Farm Spitalfields City Farm is a community farm offering educational, fun activities and skills training for localcommunities and visiting groups.
Spitalfields City Farm is the nearest city farm to Londons Square Mile.
org Intermediate Capital Group plc 42 Funds and portfolio 43 Our investment culture 46 Funds overview 48 Investment portfolio
