DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued led by our Chief executive, Jeremy Darroch, and includes executives CORPORATe ReSPONSIBILITY from across the business.
The group meets quarterly to review The Bigger Picture is part of our approach to ensuring we are a actions being undertaken by the business to reduce emissions, responsible company, doing the right thing for all of our stakeholders and progress against our targets.
Our performance is driven by ten including our customers, people, suppliers, and the communities in targets set out by the eSG in 2009, which focus on environmental which we live and work.
It provides a framework for our activities in improvements over the long-term.
the UK and Ireland as well as for all of our operations.
The key areas The Bigger Picture team manages our day to day work, collaborating of the Bigger Picture are: with external partners, organisations, and colleagues across Sky Operating responsibly and with regard to the needs of Skys to deliver our environment, Sport and Arts initiatives, and ensuring stakeholders our sustainable business practices are acted upon throughout the Fundamental to our approach are our day to day activities as a Company.
business: ensuring we treat our suppliers fairly, providing a great We seek external views from all of our stakeholders to develop our place for our people to work, and making our products accessible thinking, make sure we are following expert advice, and meet our to all our customers.
Our business is large and dynamic so it is stakeholders expectations in evolving our strategy and activities.
important that every one of our business decisions and activities Our employees can provide input to our corporate strategy through is carried out with the interests and expectations of the Sky the Sky Forum, which consists of around 80 employees elected by community in mind.
We have a regular dialogue with our most important Fostering a culture of doing the right thing throughout the business stakeholders including our customers, suppliers, regulators, local communities, relevant non-governmental organisations and charity We communicate widely through the business the importance of partners.
This happens as part of our everyday business as well as taking responsibility for our actions and behaving responsibly, the through activities such as customer focus groups.
implications for Sky and for every individual within their role, and where relevant, developing policies and processes to guide our activities.
To ensure we are following best practice in our sustainability activities, we are members of Business in the Community, The Providing trustworthy products and services that can be consumed London Benchmarking Group, Media CSR Forum, The Media Trust with minimum risk and UK Corporate Leaders Group.
We are active participants in the We ensure that our products are delivered in a responsible way Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Forest Footprint Disclosure.
so that our customers can be certain that they can trust our Sky is included in the FTSe4Good, is accredited by the Carbon programming and consume it with minimum risk.
We are transparent Trust Standard and is part of The Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
about the way our Tv programming is produced, and provide options We are also on the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations list, such as parental controls on our Tv platform and online.
have achieved Platinum in Business in the Communitys Corporate Contributing positively to our communities Responsibility Index and are proud holders of the Community Mark.
Skys recognisable brand, and our presence in over 10 million homes, Sky produces an annual Bigger Picture Review which provides full provides us with a unique opportunity and responsibility to make a details of all corporate responsibility activities.
The online review can positive contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
We focus our efforts in three areas where we believe we can make the Sky Day to Day most difference: environment, Sport and Arts.
We regularly scrutinise our strategy to ensure our activities continue to be appropriate.
In our day to day operations we try to balance the responsibilities we have to our stakeholders and wider communities with our Involving our stakeholders business priorities.
Sky has a large and diverse body of users and stakeholders, and we regularly seek views from them, to develop our thinking, make Customers Our customers are critical to our success.
We invest in content and sure we are following expert advice, and meeting their expectations innovative technologies to ensure that our Tv customers have the in evolving our strategy and activities.
By working closely with our stakeholders we aim to encourage and promote engagement as a best viewing experience.
We have promised to spend more than driver for improvement.
600 million on original home-grown productions over the next three years on British programming.
This year alone we expect We have a formal committee of the Board, the Bigger Picture to spend 380 million on UK commissioning, production and Committee, which manages our approach, provides leadership and journalism, not including the purchase of sports rights.
Through helps to drive corporate responsibility practices throughout the Sky News, we provide independent, impartial news coverage.
This committee meets at least twice a year and is chaired members of the Cultural Diversity Network, we try to increase the by Dame Gail Rebuck, one of our Non-executive Directors.
Further diversity of people seen in our programmes.
This year we ran two details on the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on page 42. programming weeks to celebrate diversity on screen, one focused on To ensure the implementation of our strategy across the business, the lives of people with various disabilities, and the other celebrated we have steering groups for environment, Cycling and Arts, and International Womens Day.
other groups are in place to oversee our sustainability policies, We look at every aspect of a customers relationship with us to controls and processes.
Our environment Steering Group eSG is identify ways of improving their experience and satisfaction from AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 18 Book 1. indb 18 12 10 11 20:46:55 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW their interactions with our call centres and engineers to the and broadcasting roles.
Many more jobs are created through the products and services we offer.
We established a formal Customer scores of broadcasting, production and technology companies Compliance Committee, whose remit it will be to look into topics which are sustained by our investments.
Skys entertainment such as improving customer complaints handling and the sales channels alone worked with more than 100 independent process.
As a result of customer feedback, we are investing heavily in We source products and services from thousands of suppliers training our customer service teams to be multi-skilled so that around the world and use our influence to promote better social and environmental standards.
We think that collaborative supplier they can resolve customer queries first time without needing to transfer to another operator.
We recruited more specialist relationships are the best way of obtaining the most value from engineers so that we can send one of our own in-house trained those relationships.
Our Responsible Sourcing Principles cover engineers to over 95% of our customers who require a service visit.
environmental and human rights issues, and it is the responsibility We also worked closely with our business partners to ensure our of our suppliers to meet these when working with Sky.
We work processes and communication styles are aligned, and that the with our most carbon intensive suppliers to help them measure quality of the service we offer is consistent.
their carbon footprint and reduce emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our Accessible Customer Services team is specially trained to address the needs of customers with accessibility needs.
We our people provide Audio Description and subtitling services well above what The passion, hard work and enthusiasm of our people are what make is required of us by law, because we think its important that all Sky a success.
We want to employ the very best people and help of our customers can access the programmes they want.
This them perform to the best of their ability.
We offer a range of schemes year we also launched Sky Talker for our customers who suffer that allow young people to experience working for us, including two sight problems.
Sky Talker vocalises the search and scan banner, and three-year graduate programmes in a range of departments, programme synopsis information and Sky functionality such as apprenticeships in our engineering and customer service teams, as play, pause and rewind making navigation easier and quicker.
well as internships and workplace programmes in our entertainment, Data protection is one of our core responsibilities.
We manage News and Sport teams.
We provide extensive training and customer privacy and data protection by having rigorous policies development opportunities for our people, and this year increased and clear lines of accountability.
All Sky people are required to pass the amount of training provided, running more than 112,000 days of our online e-learning module on data protection and security, and facilitated training, and in excess of 68,000 hours of e-learning.
all new employees have to successfully complete it within their We pride ourselves on having a culture which emphasises output first three months of joining.
Information about our governance for and results rather than monitoring the time employees spend in data protection can be found on page 44. the office.
When possible, we support flexible work arrangements, We provide all of our broadband customers with free parental and this year updated our remote-access technology to make controls, and advice on how to protect themselves through the it easier to work from home.
We also changed our maternity pay Sky Security website.
On our Tv platform, we provide marketpolicy: new mothers will now receive company maternity pay for six leading parental control technology including the ability to set months, double the previous allowance, and we have halved the time a watershed, age rating filters, restricting access to specific employees need to have worked at Sky in order to be eligible from channels, and the ability to monitor spending on Sky Box Office.
We listen carefully to our employees feedback and With on-going investment in video on demand products in ideas on our products and services, and how to make Sky an even 2010 2011, we have also implemented new controls to protect better place to work, using our People Survey, and the Sky Forum.
The Sky Child Safety Forum includes We take the safety and well-being of our staff very seriously.
We representatives from various departments and meets quarterly to have strong health and safety policies, and come up with engaging facilitate a cross-functional approach to addressing the challenges and interactive ways to communicate our health and safety of child safety, both on screen and online.
We run events throughout the year to help our people Sky takes seriously the need to provide its services in a way stay fit and healthy, including workshops, health assessments, and that encourages responsible gambling.
All of the Sky Betting health treatments.
and Gaming team receive regular training to ensure that they Our diversity strategy focuses on ensuring that Sky is open to are equipped with the right knowledge and skills to meet our anyone with talent and a good work ethic.
Over the past two regulatory and social commitments.
We have worked hard to years, we have had a particular focus on ensuring that women ensure that Sky Bet, Sky vegas, Sky Poker and Sky Bingo have all and people from black and ethnic minority groups are fairly been awarded a seal of approval from GamCare, an organisation represented in leadership and management positions, and that promotes responsible gambling, in recognition of the throughout the business.
As members of the Cultural Diversity importance we place on delivering the highest industry-recognised Network, which aims to improve diversity in the media both on standards for customer protection.
and off screen, we provide mentorships for people from minority Suppliers backgrounds to develop their careers in the media.
Through our investment in programming and innovation we make a significant contribution to the UKs creative industry.
This year, Sky directly employed around 2,500 people in skilled production AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 19 Book 1. indb 19 12 10 11 20:46:55 DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued We minimise Skys environmental impact in both our day to day Community Action operations and through the development of sustainable products Making a positive contribution in the communities where we work and services.
We are constantly working to reduce our operational and where our customers live is important to us.
We encourage Sky and our products carbon footprint.
We install technologies that people to get involved, by taking part in our community initiatives improve the energy efficiency of our buildings such as cool beam to maximise the impact we make.
As well as contributing to our technology air conditioning systems, solar powered and motion communities through volunteering and fundraising, this gives our sensor controlled lighting, and smart meters which provide us with people the chance to learn new skills and knowledge and work energy use information on a floor-by-floor basis.
energy efficiency together as a team.
has been a key focus to the design of our new building, Sky Studios, Our employees can make tax-free donations to a charity of their which includes features such as extensive external solar shading, choice directly from their salary and we give an extra 50p for every 1 natural ventilation, and natural lighting.
In addition, onsite renewable given.
We also support employee fundraising with pound-for-pound energy provides nearly half the energy requirements of Sky Studios.
matching, up to 300 if fundraising as an individual, or 1,000 if We have also been working hard to reduce our impacts resulting fundraising as part of a team of two or more Sky people.
To encourage from business travel and our fleet, and to decrease the waste we more of our people to take advantage of our payroll giving and match send to landfill.
fundraising schemes, this year we improved our systems and ran We look at the way our products are delivered to, and used by promotional presentations highlighting the benefits.
our customers, and find ways of making them more sustainable Sky people can also take 16 hours of paid time off a year to volunteer.
For example, we have increased the energy We offer them a variety of volunteering opportunities linked to our efficiency of our Sky HD box by 29% from the previous model, priority areas of environment, Sport and Arts, as well as an add your and we have upgraded our Auto Standby software so that it own option, which enables individuals to volunteer for any charity of switches inactive boxes to a standby state during the day as well their choosing.
This year, we worked to make it easier for Sky engineers as overnight.
We also put an off switch on the front of new boxes to take advantage of volunteering opportunities, as well as heavily to turn the device completely off.
These changes are saving around promoting opportunities to our customer service teams, and as a 90,000 tonnes of CO a year, as well as saving 20 million a year for 2 result have seen a healthy uptake of volunteering across the business.
Our satellite dishes are now made from recycled car parts, and we have reduced packaging and removed excess cables Because we are a recognised and admired brand among young and printed user guides, which are now available online.
people, we have a unique opportunity to engage with schools in our communities.
We offer bespoke support to local schools, as well As part of measuring our impact, our environmental performance as helping schools across the UK to develop their students social data is independently assured by environmental Resources and academic skills through initiatives such as Sky Sports Living Management.
We audit our carbon footprint data each year, using for Sport and the Sky Rainforest Rescue Schools Challenge.
We the results to map out which areas to focus on to achieve the also want to support future careers in the media, and have several greatest reduction in our emissions.
In addition, there are a number programs that give young people insight into working in broadcast, of environmental regulations that apply to Skys business.
remains compliant with these regulations and, where possible, seeks to show best practice by going beyond the minimum requirements.
environment The table below illustrates our progress in reducing gross CO 2 Our environment strategy has two aims: to minimise our emissions in order to minimise our environmental impact.
environmental impact and to inspire others to act with us to protect the environment.
We have set ourselves ten challenging 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 environment targets that span our operations, our products, Total Gross CO e emissions 2 working with our customers, involvement from our people, and i ii tCO e 108,949 112,565 113,089 2 engaging with our suppliers.
Two of our targets are reproduced i tCO e emissions include emissions from premises, company-owned vehicles and below and all ten targets, together with our performance against 2 refrigerant useage.
them, can be viewed in the Bigger Picture Review 2011. ii emissions have been re-baselined to exclude Easynet which was sold in September performance against environment targets 2010. i i Target 2009 10 2010 11 Our absolute gross emissions have risen by only 0.46% this year compared to last year despite Sky growing as a business.
In relation 25% reduction in gross CO 2 ii iii to our target set against our 2008 09 baseline, this represents a emissions by 2020 -25% -7% -19% 19% reduction in CO e emissions per m turnover.
This shows great 2 Percentage reduction in total progress and we plan to maintain this drive as our company grows in energy consumption of newly order to meet our target by 2020. installed Sky HD boxes by 2012 30% 29% 29% i performance relative to base year 2008 09.
We think its important that as a company with knowledge of ii target is to reduce 25% gross CO e emissions per m turnover.
measuring and reducing our emissions and environmental impacts, 2 we share this knowledge with others to help them reduce their iii emissions have been re-baselined to exclude Easynet which was sold in September 2010.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 20 Book 1. indb 20 12 10 11 20:46:56 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW impacts too.
As a member of the BAFTA Sustainability Action attitudes to learning, and 70% demonstrated health and wellbeing Group, we have been working with other leading broadcast benefits.
In addition, participants achieved 14% higher than the companies to understand the carbon emissions associated national average in their english exams, and 4% higher than the specifically with Tv and media production.
We are also working national average in Maths.
with Global Action Plan and Ravensbourne College to provide In 2006 we teamed up with the england and Wales Cricket Board workshops for small and medium sized production companies and eCB to set up the Sky Sports eCB Coach education Programme.
freelancers on how to reduce the carbon emissions associated The programme is designed to equip cricket coaches with the with their day-to-day activities.
necessary skills to deliver high quality coaching at all levels of the In order to inspire others to take action to protect the game, ensuring the success of the sport with a new generation of environment, we have continued our partnership with WWF.
This year, more than 10,000 new coaches have graduated, Through Sky Rainforest Rescue, we are involving our staff and bringing the total amount of coaches educated by the programme our customers in our campaign to help save one billion trees in to 33,000, surpassing our initial 30,000 goal.
We focused more on the Amazon rainforest by raising 2 million by 2012, which Sky will female coaches this year, and asked the england Womens team match pound-for-pound to reach a total of 4 million.
In 2010 2011 and their coaches to take an active part in the programme.
we have reached a fundraising total of 1 million and have over This is our third year in partnership with the British Cycling 23,000 supporters.
We have also been working in partnership Federation, the governing body for cycling in the UK.
The overall with WWF and the Acre State Government in Brazil ensuring the goal of our partnership is to get one million more people cycling future protection of the rainforest helping develop a new law regularly by 2013.
We are supporting the sport at every level from that aims to ensure that the rainforest is worth more alive than the elite GB team and Team Sky, our own professional road cycling dead.
The System of Incentives for environmental Services SISA team which aims to have the first British winner of the Tour fide became law in October 2010 and provides the structure, authority France by 2013, to grassroots activities for recreational cyclists.
and appropriate governance for the state to enable economic Our second year of Sky Ride mass participation cycling events saw incentives to protect the rainforest.
us holding 12 events on traffic-free streets in 10 cities, providing During the last year we dedicated two weeks of programming to a fun environment for people of all ages and abilities to cycle raise our viewers awareness of the importance of protecting the safely with their friends and family.
Over 200,000 people took environment and the rainforest, and encouraged them to take part this year.
In each Sky Ride city we also delivered a programme action.
In November we featured Natural World week, and in April, of Sky Ride Locals free, weekly led cycle rides by British Cycling Rainforest Week.
As part of this campaign, Sky 1 commissioned trained ride leaders, which capture the enthusiasm created by Rooftop Rainforest, which charted urban ecologist Dusty Gedges the city events and offer a way for people to keep cycling.
Riders ambitious project to construct an indoor rainforest on top of can pick a level to suit their age and ability giving them a chance the Westfield London shopping centre, and aired as a two-part to improve confidence levels.
In 2010, over 500 local rides took documentary on Sky 1.
Over the following week 4,000 members of place, attracting over 11,000 participants.
Since the launch of our the public visited the project, including nearly 200 schoolchildren partnership in 2009, 376,000 people have been encouraged to from six schools.
become regular cyclists cycling on average at least once a month as a result of our initiatives.
Sport Sport has always been at the heart of what we do at Sky.
Over Arts the past two decades, we have provided Sport fans with access Many of our customers are passionate about the arts, so we to an unprecedented depth and breadth of sports coverage.
Our provide them with the UKs only group of channels dedicated solely multi-billion pound investment has helped develop the talent and to the arts, broadcasting more hours of arts programming than infrastructure of British sport from its grass roots to the elite level.
anyone else, and investing in bold, original productions.
We also More investment and exposure means better facilities, training want to develop new passions by bringing the arts to more people and equipment, motivates new talent, and provides a better on air, online and on the ground, and giving them the opportunity experience for players and viewers alike.
to experience culture in new ways.
We want to inspire our customers to take part as well as watch.
Innovative arts partnerships are crucial to the vitality of the arts Sport has the power to change lives, so we try to engage people in scene across the UK and Ireland, thats why we have launched the sport at all levels.
Sky Arts Ignition Series partnering with and investing in leading This was our eighth year of the Sky Sports Living for Sport arts organisations to create innovative works.
For each of the initiative, which provides secondary schools with resources to chosen projects, Sky Arts will provide cash investment of up to motivate and inspire young people through sport.
As of the end 200,000 and work with the arts partners to bring their projects of June 2011, over 1,500 schools and to date 33,000 young people to a wider audience on-air, on demand, online and on the ground.
This year, we conducted extensive research on The Sky Arts Ignition: Futures Fund offers bursaries of 30,000 the impact of the initiative looking back at participation over each as well as mentoring by Sky employees to emerging artists to the last five years.
We found that 88% of participants showed bridge the gap from training to working artist.
improvements in self-confidence, 83% showed improvements in AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 21 Book 1. indb 21 12 10 11 20:46:56
