DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW Review of the business continued We support some of the most prestigious arts festivals and events PeOPLe with investment that contributes to the cultural landscape, and we organisation also broadcast highlights in order to bring the experience to those people who couldnt attend.
Since 2007, Sky Arts has been the Over the past year, we have continued in our efforts to make Sky a broadcast sponsor of the Telegraph Hay Festival, one of the largest great place to work.
We have placed particular focus on leadership literary festivals in the world.
This year, we broadcast four special capability, looking both at our leaders of today and our future editions of The Book Show from The Sky Arts Studio, and a further leaders.
The average number of full time equivalent persons 20 festival sessions and debates.
On the ground in our Sky Arts Den, employed by the group during the year was 16,006. over 28,000 festival-goers relaxed and enjoyed free performances leadership & Collaboration and workshops.
We have articulated 6 Sky Behaviours that we believe are vital for encouraged by the success of The Book Show from the Hay our leaders to embrace to help us grow our business.
These are: Festival, this year we decided to take The Book Show on the road Clear Direction, Doing the Right Thing, Feedback & Development, to four more leading literary festivals the Cheltenham Literature Change & Improvement, Teamwork & Collaboration and Festival, the Bath Literature Festival, Words by the Water Festival in empowerment.
Cumbria, and the Dublin Writers Festival.
We also broadcast from and support other festivals across the country, and we are now the Over 200 of our most senior leaders have received detailed largest broadcaster of music festivals in the UK, covering 13 festivals individual feedback on their leadership style and have been over the summer.
This year, we also supported the South Bank Sky given support in their development against these through a Arts Awards for the first time, after the shows previous funding variety of means including coaching, workshops and events.
Sky Behaviours are built into our leadership and management programmes at all levels and our leaders are measured against them We want to open up the arts to people who may not otherwise in their performance reviews.
engage with it, and to ensure that artists and arts organisations have the funding and support that they need to offer We have also run comprehensive development programmes for groundbreaking art to the public.
Through our seven-year the leaders in our contact centres to ensure they are equipped partnership with english National Ballet, we made ballet more to motivate and manage their teams to deliver the best possible accessible to new audiences by bringing it to them in innovative customer service.
Approximately 750 leaders have received specific ways on screen, offering affordable tickets to performances, and management training.
providing free classes for school children.
managing and developing our people In the second and final year of our partnership with Artichoke, the Building our capability UKs leading public art producers, three major projects took place.
The Sky Arts Artichoke Salon Series, in association with Tate, was With our people at the heart of everything we do, making a series of three public debates centred on the nature and use of sure everyone has the right skills to do their jobs is vital.
Our public space, attended by over 700 members of the public.
Our Development Studio offers a wide range of resources that enable second major project was The Magical Menagerie, a giant carnival everyone in the company to have access to the latest e-learning, roundabout installed at the Milton Keynes International Festival.
Over 112,000 days of Finally, Dining with Alice, an eccentric theatrical show inspired by development have been logged this year alone.
In addition we have the Mad Hatters tea party from Alices Adventures in Wonderland, carried out over 600,000 hours of training in our contact centres took place over a four course outdoor victorian dinner in Norfolk.
This has been across a Over the course of the year, we engaged over 30,000 people range of subjects including multi-skilling.
The effectiveness of the through these events, contributing to our goal of broadening access training is tracked by testing individuals pre and post training.
to arts and culture across the country.
Creating opportunities for all A lot of great art work is happening across the country by There is a specific focus on succession planning and creating career organisations which dont normally receive national exposure.
development opportunities for employees with regular meetings By partnering with up to 18 regional arts organisations across with the senior executive team to plan internal mobility and cross the UK through our Sky Arts At programme, we aim to bring the functional moves.
best regional arts content to our viewers, and support local arts communities by raising their profile.
For each of our partnerships, We believe in attracting and nurturing future talent to support we produce behind-the-scenes documentaries which are aired on our growth so we have continued to develop our future talent Sky Arts channels as well as online, where they are available to view programme.
This year it has continued to go from strength to strength.
Our future talent programme focuses on developing free to anyone.
Our partnerships this year have included the Dublin Theatre Festival, Frank Zappa festival at The Roundhouse, The Royal students still in education, school leavers and graduates.
Court, Rambert Dance Company and Museums at Night.
This year we increased our graduate intake by 40% and will be providing a new centralised graduate development programme aimed at building the leaders of tomorrow.
In addition to this our newly launched Software Academy provides opportunities for AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 22 Book 1. indb 22 12 10 11 20:46:56 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT BUSINeSS RevIeW graduate programmers to join the technology team, to make an discuss a wide range of business issues and to provide input that immediate contribution to some of our most strategic software helps Sky to continuously innovate and improve the way that we development programmes.
The national meetings are attended by the most senior executives of the Company.
For school leavers we offer an Apprenticeship scheme which we This year the role of the Forum has evolved and it is now more are continuing to expand, doubling the size of our intake and a tailor-made programme called Fast Forward in the entertainment engaged in working through and helping resolve issues or implement side of our business.
ideas rather than just bringing them to our attention.
Work placement opportunities also provide an opportunity for Sky Diversity to contribute to the development and experience of young people.
We are starting to reap the fruits of the diversity strategy Across the business this year we have increased the number of introduced last year with a focus on increasing representation of opportunities with approximately 400 placements being offered women and people from Black and Minority ethnic BAMe groups in the past year.
in leadership and management positions.
There have been a Sky is an equal opportunities employer and we believe that number of initiatives in support of the strategy, including evolving everyone should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, our Senior Womens Development Network, significantly enhancing promotions, training and development.
Should an employee our maternity benefits and partnering with various not-for-profit become disabled during their employment with the Company, organisations in support of the recruitment of BAMe applicants where possible, we will actively re-train and adjust their into Sky.
We were delighted when our efforts were recognised environment to allow them to maximise their potential.
Over the by our placement in the respected Times Top 50 employers for course of the year, we have partnered with various not-for-profit Women awards.
organisations with the aim of providing more opportunities for reward and recognition people with disabilities.
We continue to provide a generous benefits package to all our employee engagement people and to benchmark pay against relevant industry norms to We developed a new employee engagement survey this year to ensure that our reward practices are meeting the evolving needs enable us to benchmark ourselves against other UK companies of the business.
and specifically against high-performing companies.
Our various recognition schemes ensure that our people are The proportion of our people participating in the survey was recognised for outstanding contribution to the business.
The extremely high compared with external benchmarks and showed a contribution of all our people to hitting our long-term company high level of employee engagement.
objective of reaching 10 million customers was acknowledged in a bumper Christmas gift as well as enhancing our annual Sky Fest As well as reaching a high performance indicator for employee 2 day summer festival activities available to all employees engagement 90% we also learnt that compared to other and their friends and families.
Feedback from our people was high-performing companies, we perform exceptionally well overwhelmingly positive.
in the categories of reward and recognition, corporate social responsibility, performance and development.
Benchmarking Health, Safety & wellbeing has also helped us prioritise activity in support of our overall The health, safety and wellbeing of all our people are of paramount employment proposition.
We have recently introduced more importance to us: wherever and whenever they work for us and frequent pulse surveys, sampling a smaller proportion of whatever they are doing.
employees throughout the year to allow us to continuously monitor the organisation so we can keep in touch with employees We take a holistic approach to keeping Sky a safe place to work, views all year round.
so whilst accident prevention and safety training is important, the long-term wellbeing of our people is equally important.
The following are key performance indicators that we derive from the results of our surveys: Our Occupational Health service supports our people to stay productive with a range of support and facilities to help keep % of employees who people healthy and happy.
enhancements this year include an Statement agree with the statement upgrade to our on-site gym facilities in Osterley, as well as a I fully support Skys strategy and goals 87% new deal offering significant discounts for other gyms for shiftI understand how my job contributes to workers who may find it more difficult to access fitness facilities.
In and supports the success of Sky 91% addition, on-site complementary therapies have been introduced I am willing to go the extra mile to help at some of our sites.
Sky succeed 93% Having open and transparent communications throughout the business is important to us.
Our Sky Forum plays a significant role in this.
The Sky Forum is a team of 80 employee representatives from across the business.
They meet several times a year to AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 23 Book 1. indb 23 12 10 11 20:46:56
