overview our people Employees Employee wellbeing Our people are critical to Britvics Throughout the past year, we have success and we are fully committed to focused in GB on making improvements making Britvic a great place to work.
to work-life balance, improving our Our emphasis is increasingly on safety record and supporting a healthier developing our own talent, combined workforce.
We have continued to invest with proactive external recruitment in tools and systems that give our when we need to introduce new skills employees the tools they need to do or create positions that support our their roles and provided technology growth plans.
To maximise the that supports more mobile ways of potential of our employees we working.
This enables us to improve continue to strengthen our focus on communication and engagement and performance management and provide gives employees the opportunity and multiple learning and development control to work flexibly in terms of both programmes in GB and Ireland that location and hours.
Additionally, to cover leadership, management skills further our commitment to providing and functional excellence.
We are early a safe working environment, we in the integration process of Britvic established an on-line training France, but we retain the same high campaign targeting driver safety.
level of commitment to keeping our To support the health of employees new colleagues well informed and and their families we also provide engaged about Britvics future vision a benefits package which includes the and current group performance as this provision of private healthcare and is fundamental to our joint success.
We are extremely proud of the high Other wellbeing benefits include employee engagement scores we discounted gym membership and achieve within Britvic and we conduct a cycle to work scheme, which was an annual survey where we regularly requested by employees and has seen out-perform other external benchmark a good level of success so far.
Overall employee employee wellbeing programme has engagement across GB and Ireland for been successfully launched in 2011, 2011 is 73, based on an extremely high with a focus on healthy eating, exercise response rate from our employees.
4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 09:48 Kitchen, Glasgow 5 11:25 City Quay, Dublin 6
