business review corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR remains an important part of the way that we do business at Britvic.
The past year has been focused on We recognise that packaging waste Introduce at least two new low sugar embedding our new strategic vision: is a social and environmental issue and products as part of a balanced portfolio to be a progressive, sustainable, while we were unable to deliver the Promote healthier behaviours by responsible company.
The table opposite pilot recycling scheme we had planned, launching at least two marketing shows a snapshot of our performance we are actively exploring other options.
initiatives encouraging active lifestyles against the targets that we set ourselves Work with the Department of Health last year.
While these targets were Sustainable to participate in a large scale specific to the GB business unit, we In order to ensure a sustainable future Change4Life initiative are now focused on embedding CR for our business we need to invest and Support the delivery of the PepsiCo across the Britvic group.
innovate to minimise our impacts.
This health and wellbeing manifesto pledges year we put in place a new sustainability relating to Britvics PepsiCo portfolio A comprehensive overview of our committee to look at longer term targets CR achievements 2010-2011 will be Contribute to WRAPs Courtauld II and programmes.
In 2011 we continued industry wide targets to reduce, reuse, published in our 2011 Corporate to make good progress and achieved recycle by end 2012 versus 2009 Responsibility Report which will be reductions in our GB water use of 4% available in January 2012 from the Commit to two more factories absolute and in CO emissions of 2.5%, 2 company or on our website: sending zero to landfill although we narrowly missed our liquid www.
Continue to roll out our new effluent waste ratio target.
Two more of more efficient chiller equipment our GB factories achieved zero waste to Progressive landfill and we also contributed to WRAPs Continue to support our charitable We are committed to harnessing the partners on relevant health, targets around reduce, reuse and recycle.
power of our brands to help address social and environmental issues relevant social and environmental issues.
Responsible Launch an employee health and wellbeing programme, improving Health remains high on the national agenda As a responsible employer we are work life balance throughout and in the UK, we pledged our support to committed to having a positive impact the business the governments Responsibility Deal which on both our employees and our Encourage personal growth through was launched in March, signing up to a communities.
In the past year we have continued support for employee number of collective pledges.
As a result grown our employee volunteering volunteering by increasing the of this, we launched an employee health participation by 5% and will continue number of those who participate and wellbeing programme wellness@ to support this important activity.
Our Support disadvantaged children work this year, reviewed our catering enterprise training days for teachers by increasing our fundraising provision to encourage healthier choices, are now running across Britvic Learning for Barnardos and ran a series of physical activity Zones at three of our factory sites Work with the AIM-Progress group challenges for our employees.
Beckton, Leeds and Norwich - and to ethically audit our suppliers and we were awarded a prestigious IEBE create appropriate action plans We also continued to support the Institute for Education Business governments Change4Life programme, Contribute to an absolute target to Excellence award for the scheme.
in particular its Great Swapathon and reduce water use by 20% by 2020 Additionally, by promoting payroll giving compared to 2007, with water ratio Really Big Summer Adventure, and as an effective tax free way to support reduction of 4% targeted versus 09 10 continued to promote healthy and active charities and communities, we increased lifestyles through our own marketing Aim to reduce CO emissions by 2 our donations in this way and were 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 programmes, including Robinsons Street awarded the National Payroll Giving per tonne of product, with a 2.5% Tennis and Fruit Shoot Champion of the reduction targeted versus 09 10 Silver Mark award.
In line with our targets, we Deliver at least 18 teacher, school also launched two new low sugar products and NEETs programmes across Mountain Dew Sugar Free and Fruit Shoot our three Britvic Learning Zones Hydro for children.
Reduce liquid effluent waste ratio by 2.5% versus 09 10 Encourage on-the-go recycling by piloting a branded reverse vending machine project 28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011
