Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 20 Business Review Review of Operations Employee Benefits Our UK and Ireland Employee Benefits business delivered a 5% Financial highlights increase in revenues and a 20% increase in trading profit in the year, at a trading margin of 19%.
This success reflects the continued Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit diversification of the business and is all the more noteworthy when set m m against a difficult macro trading environment and clients reducing discretionary spend.
26.0 The UK pensions and benefits market continues to evolve.
The process 137.0 Trading Margin 130.1 of closure and fide-risking of Defined Benefit Schemes and the growth in 21.7 Defined Contribution Schemes continued into 2011.
JLT advised on 19% over 20 scheme buy-ins outs during the year and working with its 2011 insurer partners were active in many more.
Pension Capital Strategies continues to secure appointments to assist 17% sponsors manage their obligations.
A significant number of new clients were secured by its Trustee Solutions business, including Home Retail 2010 Group.
10 11 10 11 The Independent Trustee business grew further, winning new mandates and engaging in significant transactions during the year including the ground breaking deficit for equity swap in Uniq PLC and its Principal lines of business subsequent 800 million buy-out.
The role of an independent trustee is becoming more prevalent as schemes seek experience in negotiating Trustee Solutions funding positions with sponsors and transactions with third parties.
Offering a range of services designed to meet the The Employee Benefit Solutions business grew again during the year, requirements of pension scheme trustees including supported by JLTs BenPal technology solution.
Client implementations pensions and actuarial consulting, administration, have now exceeded 90 and new clients included Hitachi Data Systems, governance and communications.
Wilmington Group plc and FNZ.
The UK Government confirmed its Auto Enrolment legislation in 2011.
Employee Benefit Solutions We see this as a major opportunity over the next three years to support clients as they address compliance.
During the year we secured Providing advice on the design, implementation and appointments to work with leading retailers Morrisons Supermarkets, operation of employee benefit programmes, using JLTs Halfords and Staples amongst other important clients.
own integrated online benefit platform, BenPal.
The Wealth Management business grew during the year, with demand Wealth Management from members for pension advice increasing as employers changed schemes and from high earners seeking advice on tax changes to Offering advice and support to scheme members faced pensions.
Our investment management business continues to grow as with increasing scheme options, and through its Chartered it attracts more high net worth investors to our platform.
Assets under Financial Practice offering high net worth clients holistic advice or management now exceed 1 billion, up from 600 million at financial advice.
the time of the iimia acquisition in early 2010.
As the rate of growth of Defined Contribution pension assets Investment Solutions accelerates, we see significant opportunity in the provision of Advising institutional clients on all aspects of investment investment solutions to these schemes and their members harnessing and managing assets for high net worth individuals.
both our investment consulting expertise in the Defined Benefit market and our investment management experience in the retail market.
Pension Capital Strategies We will commence reporting our international Employee Benefits results Providing strategic consultancy and execution for a range separately from the 2012 interims.
These will include revenues and the of fide-risking and risk transfer options to sponsors and trading profit line to give a clearer perspective of our international business which we believe offers exciting opportunities particularly in trustees of Defined Benefit schemes.
healthcare over the medium term.
Independent Trustee Services Providing independent trustee services to Defined Benefit schemes, particularly to those where risk and conflict may arise or complex transactions may be contemplated.
20 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:35 Page 21 Thistle Insurance Services Thistle distributes non-advised insurance products and facilities into Financial highlights niche or 'privileged access' segments of the consumer, small business and not-for-profit sectors.
This sales activity is underpinned Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit by a set of underwriting facilities where Thistle has been provided m m with underwriting authority by various insurers.
This allows Thistle to share in the underwriting profitability of its business without taking any capital risk.
39.6 39.4 5.8 Trading Margin 5.5 Thistle sells insurance in one of two ways: Direct - where it sells directly to consumers, small businesses 15% and the not-for-profit sector 2011 Intermediated - where it sells through third party brokers who have the relationship with the ultimate customers.
14% Thistle businesses seek to sell to and service their clients through 2010 the internet, the telephone and via on the ground sales teams.
10 11 10 11 Thistle tends not to act as a traditional broker, although our London Market business still performs this vital role for independent regional brokers in specialist areas or to complement its broader activity.
Principal lines of business The relative size of Thistle's insurance premiums by transaction tends to be lower than other parts of JLT and the volumes higher, Direct which therefore requires a robust technology based operating platform and efficient processes in order to transact in a cost Online effective way.
This is an area of significant ongoing investment.
Distributing and underwriting insurance products to Thistle is more exposed than most parts of the Group to the impact consumers and small companies through the internet of the current crisis on UK consumer confidence, and has faced a or via a contact centre.
very tough trading environment, reflected in the flat performance for the year, although excluding an exited book of unprofitable business Affinity Thistles underlying organic revenue growth was 4%.
Working with affinity groups to distribute and We remain committed to the Thistle strategy and we have already underwrite insurance products to their members.
taken the know-how and business model to Australia and Canada and believe Asia and Latin America also provide good potential Public & Social opportunities.
Distributing and underwriting insurance to the Public Sector and to Housing Association tenants.
Intermediated This Insurance Distributing and underwriting insurance products to a network of more than 1,600 independent regional brokers.
This London Market Providing UK independent regional brokers with access to the London Insurance Market.
Expacare Distributing and underwriting expatriate healthcare insurance through independent brokers in the UK and abroad.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 21
