Corporate Governance Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 45 Corporate Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR remains important to Jardine Charity and the Community Lloyd Thompson.
We operate our business in line with industry best In 2011, JLT Group donated 407,890 to charity.
Jardine Lloyd practice striving to ensure that our operations have a positive impact Thompson encourages employees to engage in charitable activities on the environment whilst maintaining a strong competitive edge.
and provides support in three ways: Matching employee fundraising The Workplace JLT will match pound for pound any amount raised by our UK JLT's goal is to create a stimulating, innovative and dynamic working employees in fundraising activities they undertake for charity up to a environment where talented individuals are rewarded and recognised maximum of 2,500.
In 2011, 113,000 was spent matching for their contribution to the success of the business, both employee charity activities.
This is seen as a key aspect of the charity professionally and personally.
JLT provides a Give-As-You-Earn scheme Despite the challenging economic climate, our growth has created a which enables UK employees to make regular charitable donations in strong demand for talent, which we develop from within our a tax-efficient manner.
organisation as well as through recruitment.
JLT attracts people who thrive on a non-bureaucratic, entrepreneurial environment that Charity through action respects and rewards individual contribution and every employee is All UK employees are able to take advantage of a Charity Day, this encouraged and expected to apply their own expertise and creativity gives them one day every year when they can spend company time to drive the business forward.
helping a charity or working in the local community.
A highlight of In 2011, JLT undertook several significant activities to understand 2011 was the support that JLTs Mumbai office has given to the local and improve our workplace.
Engagement surveys were conducted in Udaan School for underprivileged children, where employeesprovide many regions and the results are being used to plan 2012 transportation to and from the schoolfor the children as well as employment-related activities.
These help us understand the unique spending time teaching and coaching.
qualities that make JLT successful and provide clear outlines of what aspects of our culture we must protect as we grow.
Donations and special request Also in 2011, JLT broadened its benefit offering to provide greater Finally, the Group Charities Committee considers a wide range of eligibility and more flexibility to employees in the UK, with an request from local, national and international charities for donations or emphasis particularly on health, wellbeing and lifestyle benefits that support for specific projects.
In the UK a further 54,000 was encourage employees to be pro-active in their health management.
donated to specific charity activities.
We are committed to health and safety and have an international network of health and safety representatives in each location.
Environmental Policy We are seeking in 2012 to create better opportunities for global JLT remains committed to minimising any adverse impact its movement of our employees.
This encourages a global perspective in businesses have on the environment.
our business, supports the retention of top talent and helps develop skills and expertise in new areas of our business.
The Group's environmental policy, which is set out on page 46 is regularly reviewed to ensure that the Group's objectives and targets We are committed to maintaining this culture both for the benefit of are achieved.
employees and our long-term success.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 45 Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 46 Corporate Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Policy To encourage employee participation we have deliberately avoided producing a lengthy policy document and have instead agreed the ten key commitments set out below.
In addition to these Group commitments, local business management is responsible for enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations and managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Reduce the amount of paper we use by setting JLT's principal stationery supplier in the UK is a carbon our printers to default double-sided printing, neutral company and has a sound ethical and where possible environmental policy.
After three years of substantially reducing paper JLT's mechanical and electrical principal contractor is consumption across our UK operations, consumption registered as ISO 14001 with regard to Environmental in 2011 remained at a similar level to 2010.
consumption can be reduced further is now being 7.
Purchase, where practicable more products investigated.
locally to reduce the environmental impact 2.
Positively encourage employees to think twice related to transportation.
before printing emails This requirement is incorporated into our purchasing Promoting this by adding a short reminder to the end process.
Encourage employees to recycle rubbish 3.
Print all future marketing materials and Across the UK, recycling has increased by 13% in publications on recycled paper wherever possible 2011 compared to 2010.
This process continues to be supported by the confidential waste and national All the Group's standard copier paper across the UK recycling scheme.
comes from recycled sources and from forests managed by the Forest Stewardship Council.
Identify and measure our greenhouse gas 4.
Encourage the use of teleconferencing as the emissions and manage a targeting and preferred alternative to business travel where monitoring scheme practicable An energy manager has been appointed to prepare This area has received additional investment and will environmental performance reports of all the UK continue to focus on the most up-to-date technology buildings where we have control of energy as it delivers financial savings and reduces our carbon consumption.
E-learning is also widely promoted and JLT is registered with The Carbon Reduction encouraged.
Commitment scheme in the UK and continues to seek to reduce its carbon footprint.
Limit our energy consumption Energy consumption has shown a reduction of 6% per In 2011 there was a small increase in energy employee in 2011 compared to 2010. consumption per person in the UK.
The efficiency of JLT's electrical infrastructure is being upgraded where 10.
Seek to raise awareness, encourage and enable practicable to reduce the energy consumption within our staff to make an effective contribution to our offices.
environmental improvement In the UK this includes a separate staff environmental 6.
Develop environmentally sound procurement intranet site which is being further developed to practices incorporating environmental criteria for demonstrate our progress against each of these ten supplier selection key commitments.
All our UK suppliers are vetted through an approved contractor selection system.
Part of the vetting criteria is their ability to demonstrate the application of an environmental management system.
46 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
