Corporate Social Responsibility The Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM is committed to socially-responsible investing, which includes financial sustainability through to promoting social and environmental benefits.
The JLIF Board is wholly supportive of this philosophy.
The commitment to corporate social responsibility is largely delivered through JLCM.
JLIF benefits from John Laings high standards of CSR that permeates through the continued management services provided to the Portfolio assets.
It is the engagement of teams that manage the assets on the ground and support the communities in which they operate that makes the difference.
John Laings commitment to CSR received Gold status in the 2011 Business in the Community BITC Corporate Responsibility Index and it maintains a close working relationship with BITC to enhance corporate responsibility performance.
John Laing continues to achieve high levels of recognition for its CSR activities.
In 2011 for the third year in succession the Community Mark and RoSPA Gold certificate were awarded.
Only 38 UK companies hold the Community Mark and together with the RoSPA award it is a reflection of John Laings continued CSR commitment, safety performance and the systems it operates in the control and mitigation of risks.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT John Laing works closely with a number of Charitable and Community organisations to support and deliver their objectives: John Laing has been a patron of The Princes Trusts Construction and Business Services Leadership Group since 2006 to help support disadvantaged young people across the UK via the Get into Construction programme, a skills development scheme that helps young people find a way into the industry.
Through ongoing employees engagement in 2011 and participation in the adventure challenge to the Sahara, John Laing has continued to support the lives of young people.
John Laing works closely with Victim Support to provide funding in areas of need identified by the UK national youth crime strategy.
During 2011 Kingston Hospital benefitted from a grant from the John Laing Charitable Trust of 25,000 which will enable an Independent Sexual Violence Adviser to be recruited to join the service at the Hospital.
In 2011 John Laing has continued to participate in the BITC Education campaign including the What Works in Schools programme as part of the Princes Seeing is Believing visits to various educational establishments.
John Laing has forged an innovative partnership at North Swindon Schools providing direct engagement in the day to day classroom work through a three year programme being delivered by the Princes Teaching Institute.
The work supports the development of staff through a comprehensive and holistic programme to promote interesting teaching and challenging lessons.
Research has shown that a positive learning experience results in improvements in learning outcomes, which ultimately improves opportunity in employment and further education.
John Laing continues to work in partnership with the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers BTCV to increase awareness of the local environment, bring people together and enjoy structured teamwork for those members of the community who may be unemployed or suffering from mental or physical health problems.
John Laing has helped fund the BTCV innovative Green Gym programme that operates across the UK to facilitate practical conservation or gardening work.
This has included projects close to assets such as Glasgow Schools, Newham Hospital and Sirhowy Way.
PROJECT AWARDS In October 2011 two JLIF projects were awarded accolades at the British Institute of Facilities Management BIFM Awards.
Modus Services, the project company responsible for the modernisation and rationalisation of the Ministry of Defence's Whitehall Headquarters was named winner of the Sustainability Award.
This is a fantastic recognition of the team work that the client MoD, partners and suppliers have put into the project and the sheer hard work as well as innovation and thought.
The Forth Valley Royal Hospital project was successful in two categories at the BIFM Awards.
The ceremony saw the new hospital received highly commended in the Innovation in Technology and Systems category and Outright Winner in the category of FM Excellence in a Major Project.
The awards are recognition of the truly collaborative partnership achieved over the last five years between all the project parties.
In January 2012 the Abbotsford Regional Hospital and Cancer Centre ARHCC in Canada received a First Place Technology Award from ASHRAE American Society of Heating, Refrigeration, and Air-conditioning Engineers.
The Technology Awards recognise outstanding achievements in successfully applied innovative building design incorporating ASHRAE standards for effective energy management and indoor air quality.
This ASHRAE Award further recognises the effectiveness of the energy solutions put in place at ARHCC since it was the first Canadian acute care hospital to be awarded LEED Gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited
