BUSINESS REVIEW OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Introduction We have a long track record of acting responsibly and supporting Introduction the communities to whom we deliver services.
Our support for Building stronger communities Children in Need telethons dates back to 1980, and that for Comic Relief to 1988.
Our environmental management system dates back Reducing carbon emissions and our impact to 1991.
We have long-standing ethical supply chain management on the environment processes and policies on equal opportunities, fair pay and Behaving responsibly anti-bullying.
Our corporate responsibility risks One way in which businesses strive to do better in terms of acting Further information responsibly is to compete with others for awards.
We enter these to help benchmark ourselves against the efforts of other like-minded organisations.
In 2011 we were proud that we maintained gold Taking corporate responsibility and sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Platinum sustainability seriously has been important to Plus level in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, as well as attaining a place in the FTSE4Good BT for many years.
To better reect this, we Index.
We were in joint first place in the Carbon Disclosure Projects updated our business strategy this year, so Leadership Index, won the World Communication Award Green that being a responsible and sustainable Award and won the Edie Award for Environmental Excellence in the Sustainable Transport category.
business leader became one of our strategic priorities.
This will help us to further integrate We are focused on a number of strategic priorities and in 2011 we added a new strategic priority to be a responsible and sustainable sustainability into our daily decision-making.
business leader to leave no doubt about the importance we place on acting ethically and in the interests of the environment.
This reects an ongoing commitment to integrate the principles of Our approach to developing and delivering sustainability into the way we do business.
our corporate responsibility We measure progress towards our corporate responsibility CR goals in accordance with the principles of the Connected Reporting INFLUENCES Framework sponsored by HRH the Prince of Wales.
Our sustainability report provides full details of our progress and can be Stakeholders found online at www.
com betterfuture Leadership panel We are focusing our activity on three areas to deliver our new strategic priority: REPORTING GOVERNANCE building stronger communities through the power of our technology and people Performance indicators BT Group plc Board Transparent reporting Board committee for reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the environment sustainable and through our operations and products responsible business behaving responsibly towards our customers, people and Leadership teams and suppliers.
steering groups DELIVERY The importance of CR is emphasised by the existence of a Board Committee dedicated to CR and chaired by the BT plc Group Business units Chairman.
We also receive advice from an external leadership panel CR STRATEGY Group corporate of independent experts.
See Report of the directors Report of responsibility team Building stronger the Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Business on page 68 communities for more information.
Reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the environment Building stronger communities Behaving responsibly We are using our technology and the skills and creativity of our people to make a positive difference to the communities in which we work.
Digital inclusion The economic benefit of getting everyone online in the UK is estimated at 22 billion the Economic Case for Digital Inclusion  LLP, October 2009.
We help communities enjoy the benets of technology through our commitment to improve digital inclusion.
We aim to get at least 100,000 digitally excluded people online as part of our support for the UKs Race Online 2012.
We have underpinned this with our large investment in the UKs digital infrastructure and programmes like our Race to Innity an online vote which resulted in winning communities being prioritised as part of our bre roll-out programme.
36 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We support older and less able customers through our accessible Overall this year BT invested money, time and in-kind contributions services.
In 2011 we launched BTs Including You website, which worth 27.6m in supporting responsible and sustainable business offers a range of accessible products and services for those who activities.
need extra help with communications.
We are proud that the initiative was the first to receive a new accreditation mark from Community investment AbilityNet, a charity that enables people with disabilities to access m technology and the internet.
Investment 28 1.90% time, cash and in-kind 27 Percentage of 27.6m 26.4m profit before taxation 26 25 25.0m 24 1.05% 1.01% 23 22 Skills and training 21 2009 2010 2011 We support customers who feel they do not have the skills to use our services through our Get IT Together programme launched in 2010.
Reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the In many countries around the world we also provide community environment investment support to address digital inclusion locally.
In India, our support for the Katha Information Technology and E-Commerce BT aims to reduce its impact on the environment through a range of School KITES equips students with the IT skills that will help them initiatives.
These include reducing energy and water use, to build promising careers in the local job market.
We have digital generating our own renewable energy, bringing down waste and inclusion programmes in the US, Colombia, Spain and South Africa.
Our contribution to digital inclusion around the world supports our brand and helps us to contribute to building stronger local Reducing our own emissions and energy usage communities.
Our aim is to continue to reduce carbon emissions.
We have set ourselves an ambitious carbon emissions reduction target linked to Charitable involvement our economic contribution to GDP.
In 2011 we reduced our carbon We work closely with charities to help them enhance their capacity emissions intensity per unit of value added our contribution to and their fundraising.
We help community and charity groups build GDP by 59% compared with 1997.
We continue to make good an online presence through resources such as our Community Web progress towards our target of achieving an 80% reduction in our Kit.
worldwide emissions intensity by 2020, compared with 1997.
A description of our energy reduction progress and how it was BT Troubleshooter is a new free service that gives UK charities achieved is included in the BT Operate section on page 35. access to BT people to help them to tackle particular problems.
Our support for telethons continues to assist charities with their BTs worldwide CO e emissions 2 Tonnes 000 fundraising.
In 2011 our technology and employee volunteers 2,000 0.20 Net emissions helped Children in Need and Comic Relief raise over 34m through 0.173 1,800 0.18 Carbon intensity BT supported telethons.
com mydonate, the first 2 online fundraising service not to charge a subscription fee or take commission.
We developed the MyDonate service with a number of In 2007 we announced plans to develop our own onshore wind charities including Cancer Research UK, Changing Faces, Kids farms so that we can produce around 25% of our electricity from Out, NSPCC and Womens Aid.
We were encouraged that within renewable resources by 2016.
This has proved challenging in terms days of launch, hundreds of charities had signed up to exploit this of securing planning permission.
However, we have had one site new platform for giving.
agreed in North East England and others are in train.
We also support our employees in their involvement in charities and community groups.
We did this in 2011 through our employee Engaging with the UK Government volunteering programme, our employee charity match programme Through our actions and engagement with the UK Government, and through our BT Community Champions programme.
In 2010 we are trying to encourage investment in low-carbon electricity we asked our people to vote on which charities they wanted to be generation.
One way to help stimulate the creation of a clear the companys fundraising charity partners.
They chose Cancer market for renewable and low-carbon energy would be to Research UK to join ChildLine.
We are pleased to work with these introduce a colour-coded label on all electricity sold in the UK, organisations.
enabling customers to easily assess the green credentials of the electricity they buy.
Such a system has worked successfully in BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 37 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY driving low-carbon purchasing decisions in other markets such as We take our responsibilities as an ISP seriously.
Using Cleanfeed white goods and vehicles.
our content ltering solution BT continues to prevent inadvertent access to images of child sexual abuse as identied by the Internet We believe this type of transparent carbon information, supported Watch Foundation.
We have shared, without charge, the technical by tax incentives, would stimulate demand for green energy, and solution with other carriers.
To supplement this, in March 2011 BT help the UK to move more quickly to a low-carbon energy market.
launched a new range of printed and online safety advice to help It would also resolve the problem of double-counting of green parents keep children safe on the internet.
At the same time we electricity and remove the confusion surrounding current green launched a major campaign to prompt BT broadband customers to tariffs.
consider BTs free Family Protection parental-control software.
The software is offered automatically as part of the install process.
Engaging with vendors BT is participating in research at the University of Cambridge, In February 2011 we introduced a new procurement standard Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tsinghua University, requiring all suppliers to measure and report their carbon and assessing how people react to technological change and how these greenhouse gas emissions and set reduction targets.
This is changes affect the productivity and well-being of individuals and designed to encourage supplier innovation and to speed up society as a whole.
We ran workshops in partnership with the Carbon Trust this year to help 80 UK SMEs BTs approach to privacy and data protection includes both improve their understanding of climate change and develop action technological solutions and a focus on employee awareness and plans to reduce their impact.
In 2011 we established a number of regional governance committees which oversee our approach and monitor progress.
Engaging with customers Disaster response and resilience Reports such as SMART2020 show that the ICT sector as a whole has the opportunity to help society reduce global carbon emissions Resilience is incorporated into the design of our network, but by as much as 15% by 2020.
We work with customers to help them disasters and emergencies can strike unexpectedly.
BT has formal to reduce their carbon emissions and energy consumption through legislative civil contingency responsibilities as a UK Category Two the supply of energy-efficient products and solutions.
As the largest guardian of Britains telecommunications encourage business customers to replace travel with digital Critical National Infrastructure CNI we are responsible for communications and in the UK we announced a smart metering maintaining communications for our customers, including other CPs, consortium in partnership with Arquiva and Detica.
These and other as well as national, regional and local government, emergency low-carbon opportunities are realised through our customer-facing services and public sector bodies.
We also aim to help shape and lines of business and described in BT Global Services on page 23 implement best practice.
We extend this core value of being a responsible business into our community investment focus through engagements with the Behaving responsibly Disaster Emergency Committee DEC, the British Red Cross and the We strive to behave responsibly towards our customers, suppliers, American Red Cross and via maintaining a dedicated emergency employees and neighbours.
We expect everyone at BT to meet high ethical standards and we Our corporate responsibility risks want to do business with suppliers and customers we can trust and who share our values.
We quantify the most significant social, environmental and ethical risks to BT in our corporate responsibility risk register.
This is We have a governance structure in place to monitor that our ethical updated twice a year and reviewed annually.
policies reect best practice and are routinely applied.
The current corporate responsibility risks which we monitor and We are implementing an anti-corruption and bribery programme to report on are: build on our ethical culture.
We have policies and procedures in place to mitigate the risk of any BT employee, or anyone acting on health and safety risks to employees and the public exposed to our behalf, breaching our ethical code of conduct.
BT operations breach of integrity or unintended release of private customer data leading to a loss of trust in BT Ethical performance measure an index measured on a five point scale of mitigating climate change impacts such as increased costs the success of BTs employee awareness and training.
associated with changing legislation Non financial performance adapting our business to reduce our exposure to the direct Target 2012 2011 2010 2009 impacts of climate change, such as severe weather ensuring that our activities and their outcomes meet legal or Maintain or improve our 2011 4.16 4.10 New in 2010 index score ethical standards for a diverse workforce unacceptable supply chain working conditions.
Financial performance Where appropriate, references are made within the Our risks Revenue support 2.1bn 2.1bn 1.5 bn section on page 39 to the aspects referred to above.
Customer bids with a sustainability element Further information More detailed information about our CR and sustainability performance is available in our independently veried 2011 sustainability report at www.
