Corporate responsibility report 1. Business ethics Code of Conduct We updated and launched our new Code of Conduct during the year, which is accessible on our corporate website.
This describes the principles, policies and procedures that we have developed to promote ethical behaviour from all our employees, based on our foundation of core company values.
It has been drafted in accordance with the relevant legal legislation where we do business.
The core principle is that each one of us must take individual responsibility for our actions and behave ethically and compliantly.
We aim to make a positive We implement a structured approach to To help support a good understanding impact by focusing our corporate Corporate responsibility CR reporting, of our Code of Conduct and our obligations responsibility activities in areas based on an annual plan and targets.
as a supplier of medicines to patients that are most relevant to our We have chosen our reporting categories, and healthcare professionals, we provided business.
This helps to promote listed below, in the belief that the business training and mentoring for all employees understanding of what we do, benefits from the implementation of good through our Compliance Programme during saves money and resources, and governance practices in each: the year.
This will be extended to our new builds relationships and trust in colleagues from Biocompatibles over the our governance.
1. Business ethics next few months.
Training is mandatory Rolf Soderstrom, CFO 2.
Research and development and includes practical examples of 3.
Suppliers and customers good and bad practice as case studies 4.
Environment Employee engagement Our CR Committee comprises individuals We believe we can facilitate greater employee from across the business, meets quarterly engagement in the business by providing to discuss new trends, set targets and forums for two-way dialogue, information monitors progress.
This year we have exchange and collaborative working.
started harmonising policies, procedures These are especially important during times and processes across the Group to ensure of significant change, such as during the that they reflect the larger consolidated recent acquisition of Biocompatibles.
business, following the acquisition of We have a structured internal communications Biocompatibles in January 2011.
This is framework for the Group, and we use a a significant task which is ongoing.
number of different communications channels, including our new SharePoint-based intranet, The Committee reports to Rolf Soderstrom, email and monthly companywide meetings.
our Chief Financial Officer and the Board member with responsibility for this area We recently updated and reissued our HR of the business.
It has been developed to meet the needs of a changing organisation and will adapt as we grow.
It provides our employees with a reference guide to help them understand the policies and procedures that affect their employment and benefits.
During the last year we partnered with the consultancy Great Place to Work Institute, to launch an internal employee engagement survey to measure if our employees and leaders are living our company values and give us insights into general employee satisfaction.
We received valuable feedback which we are already putting into action through local employee representative 30 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review committees and we plan to conduct 2.
Research and development our next survey in 2012.
Researching and developing new medicines is fundamental to building a sustainable Training and development business.
We have a broad internal pipeline Our success depends on the abilities and of candidates in different stages of skills of our employees and we recognise development.
that training and development helps them fulfil their maximum potential, while also Preclinical research benefiting the business.
Training and Our policy on the ethical treatment of development is an important part of each animals in research ensures that all animal employees annual appraisal process and experimentation is performed to the highest a training team is available in the UK to standard of ethics, adhering to the three help identify suitable opportunities.
guiding principles of reduction, refinement Identified training and development needs and replacement.
We will only perform are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure studies in territories where animal studies are strictly regulated.
Alternatives to animal relevance for both the employee and the use will always be assessed and in vitro company.
We launched the Horizons testing performed as an alternative Leadership Training Programme during wherever possible.
the year to bring together our next generation of leaders to engage from a strategic, Clinical development operational and capability perspective.
We perform our clinical trials in accordance with the listed directives, applicable Work placements and internships are laws and the global standards of good considered on a case-by-case basis and practice e. g. Good Clinical Practice GCP, over a dozen were completed during the year.
Good Laboratory Practice GLP, Good Our Australian manufacturing facility hosted Manufacturing Practice GMP and the two placements for engineering students Declaration of Helsinki and summary from The University of Adelaide.
During the information on our studies are made next financial year our London office has available on www.
partnered with the University of Exeter to host a Clinical Development Industrial We always obtain written informed consent Placement student for a year.
from trial subjects by providing fair and balanced information to help them Status of business ethics targets understand the potential risks and benefits associated with participation in a given trial.
Targets for 201011: The rights, safety and well-being of trial Completed: subjects are paramount and prevail over Update the Code of Conduct to reflect any commercial or business interests.
We harmonised HR policies and procedures always protect the confidentiality of trial across BTG and our new commercial subjects and abide by data protection laws.
activities, marketing and selling our We have set in place procedures to monitor own drugs in the US: and report any adverse events during trials Create a new HR Policy Guide, to the relevant regulatory authorities.
incorporating the updated Code of Conduct: make available to employees Status of research and development targets on the new intranet: and Launch an employee questionnaire to Targets for 201112: gauge if our employees are living our Launch online annual GCP certification values and give insight into general training companywide: and employee satisfaction.
Launch a new process to invite, evaluate, approve and implement independent Targets for 201112: programmes grants,  Complete Compliance training for our studies, continuing medical education, new colleagues at Biocompatibles sites etc.
that we intend to support.
and roll out a Compliance certification process for all employees: and Complete Horizons 2, the second companywide Leadership Training Programme.
31 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Corporate responsibility report continued 3.
We have ensured that the Suppliers details for reporting suspected adverse All our products are developed, tested and events are clearly visible on the site.
distributed according to the standard of good practice required by pharmaceutical and All collateral used in the marketing or sale device regulators.
We only appoint Contract of our products underwent review through Research Organisations CROs, Contract our new Promotional Review Committee, Manufacturing Organisations CMOs and consisting of senior level expertise in other third-party vendors that have a high Product Marketing, Medical Affairs, Legal standard of ethics and quality, that comply and Compliance.
Status of suppliers and customers targets Customers Our reputation depends on our ability to Targets for 201011: manufacture safe, quality and efficacious Completed: Update the Code of Conduct to products for patients worldwide.
We operate incorporate a new Sales and Marketing recognised quality management systems Code of Conduct: and comprising the BS EN ISO 9001, BS EN ISO Develop a confidential whistle-blowing 13485:2003 standards, the FDA cGMP and hotline to incorporate ethical and MHRA TGA GMP standards and good compliance reporting.
Our Quality Policy Ongoing: Manual outlines our approach and Roll-out a Compliance Programme and commitment to quality and a comprehensive certification process for all employees: quality management system is currently and being launched globally.
Quality is regularly Devise an appropriate questionnaire discussed during internal meetings and incorporating CR questions to provide during personnel training and development evidence of the level of ethical, quality to highlight its importance throughout and compliance practices of BTGs the organisation.
This year we marked a significant milestone Targets for 201112: as we started selling our own approved Consolidate our different supplier products for the first time in our Companys questionnaires incorporating CR history.
With this comes a responsibility to questions to provide evidence of the new audiences with whom we are now level of ethical, quality and compliance interacting directly, including specialist practices of BTGs contractors: and physicians and patients.
We have Launch the new Quality Policy Manual and implemented appropriate policies and provide training and development for UK training to ensure we comply with all relevant employees to emphasise the importance regulations relating to our interactions with of quality throughout the organisation.
We recruited, trained and launched our acute care US sales force in October 2010 in partnership with our Contract Sales Organisation CSO inVentiv Health and we expanded the force from 10 to 19 representatives in February 2011.
To support their activities we developed marketing materials and to provide a more general source of information we created and launched product websites.
We also added a new section to our corporate website dedicated to US Healthcare Professionals, incorporating frequently asked questions FAQs on each product, a medical enquiry form and medical contact information, which links visitors through to an independent trained medical 32 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 4.
Community Status of community targets Community engagement We recognise the importance of forging Targets for 201011: close relationships with local communities Completed: in the countries where we operate.
This is Maintain our sustainable development especially important in our sites in West sponsorships such as World Vision Wales and South Australia where we and Rwandan Orphans and increase undertake activities to raise our profile donations to our local corporate charities: and drive recruitment.
We periodically Launch the new Give As You Earn GAYE organise open days for friends and family Scheme in the UK to provide a more of employees at our manufacturing facility efficient mechanism for employees to in Wales, as well as educational open support their charity of choice: and days for local school children.
Organise an activity day at the Melmark School near Philadelphia which provides This year we participated in the Engineering residential, educational, therapeutic and recreational services for children and Education Scheme, which gave 450 college Charitable contributions made adults with developmental disabilities.
students throughout Wales the opportunity by the Group during the year to sample working alongside professional 09 10: 6,193 Targets for 201112: engineers.
At our Australian site last year we Launch a new global charitable held an educational open day for engineering 12,921 donation policy to provide guidance to students from the University of Adelaide.
In our employees and to ensure we are fair Australia we also support a number of local in our approach to giving and do so in community sports teams in which many of The activity day at the Melmark line with our values: and our employees participate.
We see this as School near Philadelphia which Organise community charitable activities a reflection of our commitment to good provides services for children at each office to raise money or donate health and teamwork.
and adults with developmental time for our local corporate charities.
disabilities Charitable donations We principally give to charities which either support diseases or conditions in which we are therapeutically focused or that benefit the local communities in which we operate.
We encourage employees to support charitable events to raise money for their chosen charities and in most locations we match individual donations up to a designated cap.
During the last year we made donations to a number of charities and more information on these is available on our corporate website.
Charitable contributions made by the Group during the year 12,921 09 10: 6,193.
We launched a new Give As You Earn GAYE scheme in the UK and we continue to evaluate options to provide this opportunity for our employees in other territories.
During the next financial year we aim to launch a new global charitable donations policy to provide guidance to employees on our approach to giving.
Part of our policy is that we make no political donations, but lobbying is undertaken from time to time through our local industry associations.
33 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Corporate responsibility report continued 5.
Environment Sustainability Health and safety We aim to operate our business sustainably We understand our responsibilities to to help manage finite resources.
We recycle protect the health and safety of our paper, cardboard, plastic and metal at each employees and the environment in which of our sites and encourage the use of local we operate.
We conduct regular risk materials, suppliers and contractors assessments, audits and training, and we wherever possible and cost effective.
fully comply with the requirements of local legislation, such as the Health and Safety Our London office received a Gold Award last at Work Act, 1974.
BrachySciences have year in the 2010 Clean City Awards Scheme, an NRC Radiation Licence, and employees improving on the merit received the year involved in the receipt, processing and before.
This Award recognises businesses distribution of radioactive sealed sources with responsible waste management have access to the Biocompatibles Inc. practices in the City of London.
Radiation Safety Manual and receive annual radiation safety training.
In the next year we Our manufacturing site in Wales aims to aim to review our current Health and Safety adopt additional environmental management policies across the Group with the objective systems such as ISO 14001 over the longer of creating a coordinated management term.
We also have an Integrated Pollution system, following the acquisition of and Prevention Control IPPC permit in Biocompatibles in January 2011.
Wales from the Environment Agency and we plan to complete installation of a new waste Environment, Health and Safety EHS water treatment plant during the next Committees meet regularly at each of our financial year.
In Australia where water is a manufacturing sites, and we regularly remind particularly valuable resource, we collect rain employees of their obligation to report any water in storage tanks, and we regularly incidents to ensure that measures can be review if there is a need to increase our taken for improvement.
We maintain strong water storage facilities.
local relationships with Government Health and Safety bodies.
This year the British Energy efficiency Safety Council completed a Health and We regularly assess the environmental Safety audit of our Wales manufacturing impact of our business to ensure that we facility and we achieved a four-star rating are taking advantage of all opportunities out of five and have been recommended to improve our performance and efficiency.
We publish the annual Health and Safety We operate an international supply chain for incidence rates for our manufacturing sites the manufacture of our acute care products and the Group has an excellent safety record which involves international transportation with only four reportable incidents recorded over long distances.
We aim to transport in during the last year.
bulk where possible and use the most efficient transportation to save money for the Company and reduce our carbon Reportable incidents at manufacturing sites emissions.
We have a number of initiatives underway to evaluate whether there are any 2010 11 2009 10 manufacturing cost savings or other efficiencies to be made and we aim to report Australia 0 0 progress during the next financial year.
Wales, UK 3 4 Farnham, UK 0 0 We monitor electricity and gas consumption Oxford, CT, US 1 0 at manufacturing sites and offices which employ more than 20 people, and we try to Notifications under RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, reduce carbon emissions and increase Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations or local equivalent.
Our office space is rented so we liaise with local landlords and managing agents to ask about the deployment of energy efficient systems.
We are not currently collecting emissions data on transport logistics but we are reviewing this for potential inclusion during the next financial year.
We currently fall 34 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Site energy consumption and equivalent CO2 emissions in tonnes during the financial year Electricity Gas and oil Total equivalent consumption consumption CO2 emissions MWh MWh tonnes London, UK 180 97 Wales, UK 3,554 304 Gas Oil 1,960 Farnham, UK 165 96 Natural Gas 89 Oxford, CT, US 32 29 Natural Gas 20 1 Propane Gas Philadelphia, PA, US 507 272 Alzenau, Germany 158 12 Natural Gas 70 Australia 559 300 Total 5,155 442 2,808 BTG is a member of the W e only include data from these former Biocompatibles sites from January to March 2011, following the completion of the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
FTSE4Good index series, designed to objectively measure the performance of companies below the threshold for participation in Targets for 201112: that meet globally recognised the UK Governments Carbon Reduction Review and restructure environmental, corporate responsibility standards.
health and safety across all sites ensuring common policies are in Additional initiatives are in place to reduce place and in use: and our carbon footprint.
During the course of Drive use of common metrics and the last year we have installed net meeting reporting standards across all sites.
software on computers and videoconference equipment in a number of offices to provide Further information on our approach an alternative to business travel.
Our to corporate responsibility and data is manufacturing facility in Australia is making available on our corporate website at good progress towards achieving Bronze www.
com in the responsibility section.
Greenbiz certification, designed to give small and medium sized organisations ways to measure eco-efficiency footprints and we envision completing this milestone in the next financial year.
We aim to develop Group policies for the management of environmental, Health and Safety across all sites to reflect the consolidated business following the acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011.
Status of suppliers and customers targets Targets for 201011: Ongoing: Complete installation of a new waste water treatment plant at our manufacturing site in Wales, which should be fully operational early in the next financial year: and Achieve a Greenbiz Certificate at our manufacturing facility in Australia, which is designed to give small and medium organisations ways to measure ecoefficiency footprints.
35 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Directors and governance 36 The report from the directors, 38 Board of directors our governance and 40 Directors report remuneration reports.
44 Corporate governance 52 Audit Committee report 56 Nomination Committee report 57 Remuneration report 69 Statement of directors responsibilities 70 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Directors and governance
