24 Corporate responsibility report We believe that corporate responsibility is integral to commercial success.
We appreciate the role that we play as a company in: We believe that corporate responsibility is integral to commercial reducing the impact of our business on the environment: success and we are committed, wherever practicable, to ensuring quality of service to our customers: implementing environmental good practice throughout our business engaging with the companies in which we invest and exercising activities.
our voting rights with care: providing support to the community through charitable giving: and Overall responsibility for environmental and corporate responsibility providing a healthy and rewarding working environment for resides with Edward Bonham Carter, our Chief Executive.
Marketplace Number of companies engaged As a leading asset manager, we believe it is with to discuss governance and important to integrate environmental and social or sustainability issues.
These issues into our corporate governance and voting meetings included fund 162 policy through a programme of constructive managers and or members 1 dialogue and engagement across our of the Sustainable Investment investment portfolios.
companies Workplace Percentage of employees As a people focused business whose success is participating in the directly related to the quality and competence of Sharesave plan.
our employees, we believe it is important that we 78 are an organisation where people want to work and 2 with which they want to be associated.
We have a high level of employee share ownership.
Environment We will review this area As a major UK corporate we believe it is important following the results of the study.
that we understand our impact on the wider environment and look to reduce this wherever 2 012 possible.
To help us assess this we have 3 commissioned a 2012 study of our carbon footprint as a follow-up to our study last year so that we can study assess progress and set appropriate targets.
Community Percentage of employees taking Our charitable giving is driven by individual part in the Give As You Earn employee choice with all employees eligible to join Scheme.
The majority of 24 our charitable giving comes through matching 4 employee contributions to this scheme, which empowers employees to direct donations to their per cent.
nominated charities and ensures that it is spread across a wide range of charitable activities.
Jupiter Fund Management plc B usiness review 25 25 1 Marketplace investors in Jupiter funds receive biannual statements and private and institutional clients are issued with periodic valuation statements Transparency, accountability and sustainability are essential to the to keep them up to date with the progress of their investments: success of our business and have become increasingly prominent in investment profiles are issued to private and institutional clients the light of market events in recent years.
each year to ensure continued suitability.
Service review meetings are also offered to clients: Our customers complaints are investigated and addressed in a consistent, As a customer focused business, we believe that it is important to professional and impartial manner.
Where a complaint is not present clearly to customers the services we are providing and our resolved to the customers satisfaction, the customer is directed to ongoing responsibilities to them.
This is reinforced by the regulatory the Financial Ombudsman Service: and environment within which we operate.
errors made in the processing of customer transactions are identified, escalated and rectified in a timely manner.
We are committed to dealing with investors in our products and our Compensation is paid where appropriate.
clients honestly, openly, competently and with integrity.
Where appropriate, we have an informed understanding of their needs.
Stewardship At Jupiter, we aim to act in the best interests of all our stakeholders Treating Customers Fairly TCF is a core FSA principle intended to by engaging with the companies in which we invest and by exercising promote the fair treatment of customers from product inception, our voting rights with care.
Not only is this commensurate with good through to post-sales support.
We have worked hard to embed TCF market practice, it goes hand in hand with ensuring the responsible into our culture and we want all our employees to think about TCF, investment of our clients assets.
Equally, we ask companies to not as a regulatory initiative, but as a common sense principle.
present us with their plans for maintaining social and environmental sustainability within their business.
Product design Products are designed to suit our target customer markets and distribution is tailored accordingly in the following ways: As appropriate, we will engage and vote on issues affecting the fund literature provides guidance as to the intended target market long-term value of a company in which we have invested.
Issues may and outlines in a transparent manner the potential risks and include, but are not limited to, business strategy, acquisitions and benefits to the end customer: and disposals, capital raisings and financing operations, internal controls, where appropriate, new product concepts are tested prior to risk management, Board succession, shareholder rights, corporate launch to ensure that they are suitable for the target audience.
and social responsibility and remuneration.
Marketing and intermediary assistance Customers are provided A new UK Stewardship Code was introduced during the year to with clear information about our products and are kept appropriately encourage investors to engage with the companies in which they informed.
The following steps are taken to ensure that intermediaries have invested and, where necessary, hold them to account.
We understand how our products work: support the aims and principles of the UK Stewardship Code and sales and marketing material is set out in a manner which can be an explanation of our compliance with the new guidelines is both understood and acted upon: published on Jupiter Asset Management Limiteds website at intermediaries are provided with sufficient information to www.
co. uk understand fully our products in order to give suitable advice to their customers: As a leading asset management group, we recognise our fund information is clear, fair and not misleading.
It balances the responsibility in ensuring that we engage with companies to assess potential benefits of the product against the risks of investment: not only the financial risks but also the environmental, social and where required, we provide training and additional material to governance ESG risks that can impact long-term value.
Details of intermediaries to aid their understanding of our products: and our policy in this area can be found in the Corporate Governance and feedback is sought periodically on the effectiveness and clarity of the Voting Policy section of our website at www.
co. uk Groups product design and communications and service delivery.
After sales support Customers are kept regularly informed about their investments: professional intermediaries advising clients have access to monthly manager reports and fund factsheets: Annual Report & Accounts 2011 26 26 We are also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for 2 Workplace Responsible Investment which serves to reinforce our commitment to integrating ESG issues into our investment decision-making.
We As a people business, we value our employees and aim to create a participate in a number of joint investor networks and initiatives to positive environment in which employees can work and develop their promote sustainable investment and good governance, including the skills.
Our culture gives employees the opportunity to perform and following: develop as individuals within a structured control and governance Carbon Disclosure Project We are a founding signatory of CDP, framework.
which was launched in 2000 and conducted its first survey in 2003.
CDP conducts a survey which charts how the worlds Diversity largest companies are addressing the challenges of climate We believe that a diverse workforce is better able to service the change.
The survey rates companies on the depth and scope of needs of our clients.
We have an equal opportunities policy and it is their disclosures and the quality of their reporting.
the Companys policy to treat all job applicants and employees fairly CDP Water Disclosure Project We are a founding signatory to and equally, irrespective of gender, marital or civil partnership status, this new project that aims to help institutional investors better race, colour, national or ethnic origin, disability, religious belief, understand the business risks and opportunities associated with sexual orientation, or age.
We aim to support staff with families water scarcity and other water-related issues by increasing the through enhanced maternity pay and childcare vouchers.
We also availability of high quality information on this issue.
In 2011 offer the option of additional unpaid time off.
of Jupiters selected companies from the FTSE Global Equity Index Series total workforce is female, with approximately 25 per cent.
in senior Global 500, the Australian Securities Exchange Australia 100 executive positions.
and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange South Africa 100 were invited to respond to the second annual CDP Water Disclosure Personal development training information request because they operate in sectors which are We place a high value on personal development and we are keen to water intensive or exposed to water-related risk.
encourage the ongoing training and development of our employees.
Investor statement on a global agreement on climate change All employees take part in our six-monthly appraisal process, during This statement was launched by the Institutional Investors Group which training and development needs can be identified.
Where on Climate Change in 2006 and we have been a signatory since regulatory and legal requirements stipulate specific training, we 2008.
The statement, supported by investment institutions, provide tailored programmes to meet these requirements and concludes that clear, credible long-term policy signals are critical employees are regularly assessed to ensure they have maintained for investors to integrate climate change considerations into their their Continued Professional Development and have demonstrated decision-making process and to support investment flows into a competence for the role they perform.
Climate communiqus Bali 2007: Poznan 2008: Copenhagen In this way, we are able to equip employees with the necessary tools 2009: Cancun 2010 and 2C Challenge 2011 Jupiter has been a to allow them to maximise their performance in their role and assist signatory of all five communiqus, which call on world leaders to them in the achievement of objectives.
We also support employees agree an ambitious, robust and equitable global deal on climate who wish to gain a relevant professional qualification, both through change that responds credibly to the scale and urgency of the on the job training and through sponsorship of external courses.
crisis facing the world today.
Health and safety Jupiter is also active in building multi-stakeholder initiatives in The Board has the responsibility to ensure that all reasonable relation to good corporate practice, for example in relation to the precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions issue of diversity and women on Boards through our involvement in which are safe and healthy and that comply with all statutory the 30% Club investor group.
requirements and all legally binding codes of practice.
ESG research into the corporate responsibility performance of Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to companies is incorporated in our investment process and we engage maintain the health of employees whilst at work.
The prime with companies where their ESG practices fall short of acceptable responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with the standards.
Company, however, each employee also has a personal responsibility in this respect.
During 2011, Jupiter voted at over 2,300 shareholder meetings worldwide approximately 1,000 in the UK and 1,300 overseas.
Jupiter voted against management, or abstained, on at least one resolution at 19 per cent.
We engaged with a total of 162 companies on sustainability and governance issues.
Full details of our voting and engagement activity can be found in our Voting and Engagement report which is available on our website at www.
co. uk Jupiter Fund Management plc B usiness review 27 3 Environment 4 Community In common with service industry companies in general, the direct Charitable giving environmental effects of our operations largely relate to facilities Our charitable giving is focused on employees being able to direct management.
giving rather than being driven by corporate level decisions.
We operate a company-wide matched giving scheme, for which all UK Energy: Jupiter has implemented energy-saving and recycling employees are eligible.
We encourage our employees to make direct initiatives within the workplace.
All staff have been encouraged to contributions to their nominated charities.
This has the benefit of shut down computers and switch off printers, faxes and photocopiers ensuring our giving is spread across a wide range of charitable at the end of each working day, or when they will not be used for an activities and organisations with which our employees have a close extended period of time.
This includes unplugging unused chargers affinity.
and switching off computer monitors not in use for 20 minutes or longer.
Our matched giving programme operates through both a GAYE scheme which is double-matched and by matching funds raised In August 2011 a Printer Management System was implemented.
through participating in fund raising events for charity.
We are Jupiter introduced 28 energy-efficient multi-purpose machines, extending the double matching scheme into the 2012 13 tax year and which incorporated scanners, photocopiers and printers.
These this will enable employees to double-match charitable donations up replaced 98 older, less energy-efficient machines.
to a total contribution from Jupiter of 800 per employee per year.
Video and audio conferencing is in use to reduce staff travel.
Cycle In 2011 Jupiter employees worked together to raise funds for many racks, showers and changing facilities are provided to encourage charities.
Jupiters Movember team raised over 70,000 for the employees to cycle to work, as well as a Ride2work scheme.
Movember charity, making Jupiter the highest fund-raising UK team for this event.
Employees were also involved with initiatives as During 2011, most light fittings were fitted with energy efficient light diverse as the Jupiter Bake-Off for the Oxfam East Africa appeal, the bulbs and in 2011 all the hot water boilers in the meeting room suite 8 hour Cyclothon race for the RFUs Injured Players Foundation, the and kitchenettes were replaced with more energy-efficient models London Poppy Day Appeal and the Japan Tsunami Appeal.
Along and fitted with electronic on off timers.
with our regular programme of activity, including the Crisis at Christmas Card Challenge and Jeans for Genes, in 2011 donations Materials: Default double-sided printing is in place.
Waste: In 2011, 105 tonnes of waste was recycled out of the 210 tonnes produced by the whole building.
In addition, approximately 9 tonnes of paper waste was recycled by Jupiter.
All staff kitchens were fitted with recycling bins in February 2010, allowing staff more easily to recycle cans, plastic bottles, glass and batteries.
All printer and toner cartridges are recycled.
ICT equipment is disposed of either through a third party Icex, applying the WEEE directive.
Carbon survey: We have recently commissioned an update to the 2011 carbon footprint study.
This will help us to minimise our carbon emissions.
