CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Efficient and ethical management of our business and long term relationships with all our stakeholders, whether customers, employees or suppliers, is key to our sustained business success.
The policy clearly states were received through the Speak Up We believe that Corporate Responsibility CR that employees should avoid conflicts of process, none of which raised any issues is not only about the good management of our interest, provides guidance on the giving and of material concern.
business but also excellent and responsive long receiving of gifts and entertainment, prohibits term relationships with all our stakeholders, illegal payments as well as political donations performance against 2011 objectives whether customers, employees or suppliers.
and reinforces the need to comply with laws, The business conduct code of ethics policy We have identified seven CR elements relevant rules and regulations, protect confidential has been amended taking into account to our business model: business conduct code information and company assets and maintain the requirements of the Bribery Act to of ethics: employees: health & safety: high standards in relationships with our specifically ban the provision of facilitation environment: community: customers: and customers and suppliers.
Further, we have enhanced suppliers.
These are governed by a policy existing controls such as the Gifts Register to framework, which is approved and monitored No material breaches of our business conduct ensure that both gifts received and given are by the Board, with implementation at a code of ethics policy were recorded in 2011. recorded by employees in all companies in business area level.
However, some minor incidents relating to the Group.
In addition we have introduced employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of procedures for vetting of new agents prior buSineSS COnDuCt CODe OF etHiCS the Groups property, did occur and were dealt to appointment and further enhanced our The Groups business conduct code of ethics with during the normal course of business pre-acquisition due diligence processes to policy is disseminated to every employee as a using Group human resource HR policies strengthen our review of reputational issues guide to how employees are expected to and procedures.
Seven 2010: nine calls letters where appropriate to do so.
conduct themselves both from a corporate and OUR APPROACH To transform our strategy into tangible activities we undertake the following steps: Further details of the Groups CR policies, processes and controls and Devise and maintain Measure and monitor Set policy how they are monitored are systems performance KPIs available in the CR section of the Companys website, www.
Communicate Seek and act on and report to stakeholder feedback stakeholders BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We encourage our suppliers to set similar CR standards to ourselves while our consolidated delivery and product solutions assist our customers in meeting their sustainability goals.
We have tailored a suite of nine e-learning honest, straightforward communication.
Our HeAltH & SAFety modules which highlight the key acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable The health and safety of our employees and responsibilities of employees in relation source of management talent for the Group other stakeholders is a priority.
One of the modules provides an and the completion of a number of acquisitions to minimise the risks which occur, particularly overview of the business conduct code during the year has brought further highly relating to the operation of our warehouses and of ethics policy and this is supplemented skilled people into Bunzl.
vehicles, incidents relating to manual handling, by modules relating to anti-bribery issues slipping and tripping remain the highest cause such as facilitation payments and gifts and performance against 2011 objectives of accidents.
We are pleased to report that entertainment.
A further module details our We have prepared for the launch of the once again in 2011 there were no fatalities due whistle blowing process Speak Up.
The survey will to work related incidents 2010: no fatalities.
has commenced for all management and cover all employees in UK & Ireland, sales and purchasing staff across the Group.
Continental Europe and Rest of the World performance against 2011 objectives which together represent two thirds of the 2011 was the first year that we set 2012 objectives Groups workforce.
quantitative objectives for the reduction CR training to be completed by April 2012 of accident incidence and severity rates.
for all management and sales and We have also continued to monitor key The target was a reduction of 5% of 2010 purchasing staff across the Group.
HR measures: accident rates: Monitor and review the new processes voluntary turnover remains at very low for the year ended 30 September 2011 and procedures introduced in 2011 as levels in all business areas other than our accident incidence rates increased by a consequence of the Bribery Act.
Rest of the World, reflecting the current 1% although the actual number of time economic conditions within the countries lost accidents across the Group fell by emplOyeeS in which we operate rather than any approximately 1%: and Bunzl currently operates in 23 countries intrinsic reasons related to the Group: and worldwide.
We are a service provider, not a for the same period our accident severity manufacturer and, as such, our business relies sickness absence has fallen or remained rates improved by 29%.
This was heavily on the skills and experience of our flat in all business areas.
principally due to better performance employees.
We pride ourselves on the fact in North America and UK & Ireland.
that we run our businesses locally with local 2012 objectives managers.
We do not unfairly discriminate and Review the results of the 2012 Employee Details of our performance from 2009 to 2011 we respect human rights.
We seek to recruit Survey and implement actions to address are provided in the bar charts opposite.
The the right people who are passionate about our any issues identified.
accident data provided is for the whole Group business and provide opportunities for people with the exception of some of the most recent to progress within the organisation on the basis Continue to monitor key HR measures such acquisitions which represent approximately 3% of their skills, experience and aptitude.
We as voluntary turnover, sickness absence, of the total workforce.
believe that to get the best from people we training days, workforce gender and age mix need to respect each other and encourage and, as appropriate, take action to address 2012 objectives any issues that may arise.
Reduce Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2011.
Reduce Group accident severity rate by 5% from 2011.
26 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 9% Decrease in Scope 1 carbon emission rates business in the UK and the identification of INCIDENCE RATE SEVERITY RATE an area where fuel usage has historically Average number of incidents per month per Average number of days lost per month been double reported have resulted in a 2% 100,000 employees.
However, the growth of the business has increased fuel 205 5,419 consumption in some areas and replacement 4,863 159 vehicles in the US consume more fuel but 157 have improved emissions.
Many of the 3,446 businesses acquired in 2011 do not operate their own transport fleets.
Natural gas consumption has been positively affected by a number of site consolidations and focus on usage and boiler maintenance.
09 10 11 09 10 11 Scope 2: emission rates per 000 of revenue have decreased between 2010 and 2011 by9% see the KPI bar chart on page 7.
Anumber of measures have been taken to enviROnment Continental Europe are accredited.
By revenue reduce electricity consumption including the We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate this represents more than 30% of the Group.
installation of energy efficient lighting the harmful effects of Bunzls operations on systems and voltage optimisation equipment, the environment.
To ameliorate our impact on performance against 2011 objectives replacement of battery chargers with high and exposure to climate change, our facilities To improve transparency we are now frequency energy efficient chargers and operate worldwide to Group standards, we reporting our Scope 1 and 2 emissions Switch off campaigns.
During the year our promote environmental awareness throughout performance separately.
These figures cover businesses in Spain and Switzerland and the the business and our branch network mitigates more than 95% of the Group by revenue.
recent acquisitions in North America have against the effects of extreme local climate Our target for 2011 was to reduce our reported their consumption for the first time.
Bunzl had no environmental carbon emissions relative to revenue by 2% incidents in 2011. from the 2010 base year.
We have sought to improve the accuracy and collection of waste data.
We have started to Our direct water usage and emissions are Scope 1: emission rates per 000 of revenue appoint waste disposal contractors who are minimal.
Water usage is principally confined have decreased between 2010 and 2011 by able to provide us with more accurate data to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes.
9% see the KPI bar chart on page 7.
Fuel on the weight of waste collected from our In 2011 we conducted a water audit to confirm for transportation contributes about 90% of sites.
In addition there has been much usage and any emissions to water.
This has Bunzls Scope 1 emissions.
The level of fuel activity in the Group to improve the confirmed our initial view but we will continue consumption per 000 of revenue segregation of waste, with some of our to monitor both usage and emissions in our decreased year on year by 11% see the KPI facilities achieving zero waste to landfill.
We have continued to Where segregation of waste for recycling implement activities to improve fuel is not possible we are seeking to increase ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a consumption such as changes to the fleet waste to incineration in preference to landfill.
To date all sites in UK and routeing and managing driver behaviour.
We are currently measuring waste in UK & & Ireland, Australasia and many sites in In addition the disposal of the vending Ireland, parts of Continental Europe and BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Australasia where during 2011 there was a and the communities in which they live, from our customers.
In line with our 2011 decrease in waste generated as shown in through Macmillan Cancer Support, Barts objective we have continued to provide thebar chart below.
We believe that the and the London Charity, Diabetes UK and innovative service and product solutions to 2011 statistics represent improvement in the Alzheimers Society.
meet our customers needs including data accuracy rather than a true reflection requirements to meet sustainability goals.
of our operational performance in this area Group companies and employees worldwide year onyear.
have continued to support local charitable performance against 2011 objectives initiatives.
In North America, employees In Switzerland we launched Ecoline, a new raised money for the Ronald McDonald range of biodegradable cleaning detergents WASTE House in Colombia, Missouri, a home aimed at minimising environmental impact.
Kgs per 000 revenue away from home for families with children Our guest amenities business in Europe receiving medical treatment, while launched a new eco magnetic keycard, Incinerated waste employees in a number of branches donated mainly composed of renewably sourced General waste gifts for Toys for Tots to help disadvantaged wood and is manufactured with up to 98% Recovered recycled waste local children.
In Australasia, employees plant materials, and became the sole 0.10 participated in the Parkinsons Unity walk distributor for a shower head that uses pulse 0.21 raising money for research and awareness technology to reduce water consumption and 0.88 into Parkinsons disease and many have energy costs and can be used effectively in 0.55 2.14 been fund raising for the earthquake victims hotel rooms.
A number of UK businesses 1.96 in New Zealand.
In the UK, employees have been working with customers and have raised funds through taking part in suppliers to decrease their waste by reducing sponsored runs and walks for Macmillan the amount of packaging used to deliver our Cancer Support, Cancer Research, products to them.
10 11 Brain Research Trust and Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
The Group has received a number of awards 2012 objectives from our customers including Golbons 2011 Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce For the sixth consecutive year North America Non-Food Vendor of the Year Award and the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 13% was honoured with a Greater St Louis Top 50 Select Marketings operational excellence and 14% respectively.
Business Shaping our Future Award from the award received by the R3 business in North St Louis Regional Commerce and Growth America.
Keenpac in North America Continue to improve the accuracy of waste Association.
Bunzl was honoured for being was recognised by the Retail Packaging data and by the end of 2012 provide waste among the best companies in its field and Association for the Best Single Packaging data covering at least 95% of our existing for making significant contributions to the Product and Best Co-ordinated Packaging operations by revenue.
St Louis region and the future of its business Program.
In the UK, Bunzl Lockhart won the community.
In the UK, Greenham opened its CESA Light Equipment & Supplier Group COmmunity doors to local school pupils for a health and Forum Supplier of the Year and Sales Although Bunzls operations are international, safety tour as part of a project organised by Professional of the Year Awards and our strength is in the local nature of our a local school to allow pupils to gain an entry BunzlCatering Supplies Tamworth has businesses.
In keeping with this ethos, we level health and safety award.
beenawarded Supplier of the Year by particularly support the fund raising activities MPMCatering.
championed by our employees locally.
This is We continued to make a number of in-kind supplemented by donations made at Group donations of goods.
In the UK, the majority 2012 objectives level to charities predominantly in the fields of of such donations have been made through Continue to provide innovative products healthcare, disability and the environment as In Kind Direct, while in Australasia donations and improve customer service.
well as benevolent societies to support projects of goods such as kitchen utensils, rubber in communities where our operations are boots, bin liners and various cleaning tools SupplieRS based.
Where possible and appropriate, Bunzl were made to assist victims of the Bunzl has relationships with many suppliers.
also looks to donate stock free of charge Queensland floods.
In North America, We want our suppliers to meet the same CR in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl donated a total donations of janitorial, sanitation and standards we set ourselves and to that end we of 444,000 2010: 430,000 to charities in foodservice products were made to assist the have set up our own quality assurance quality 2011.
This does not include in-kind donations families hit by the Joplin, Missouri tornado.
control QA QC department as part of our or employee fund raising.
Our QA QC staff 2012 objectives perform regular audits of many of our suppliers performance against 2011 objectives Continue to support appropriate charitable in Asia and work with our suppliers to We identified a further environmental project projects in the fields of healthcare, implement appropriate CR standards.
This was the largest donation environment and disability.
made last year and was to UNICEF to performance against 2011 objectives support the first stage of a project to Strengthen the links of the business with During the year we have contacted our key heighten public awareness about the the communities in which we operate.
suppliers, i. e. those suppliers that provide environmental risks and vulnerabilities in Rio us with 50% of our product by value, to fide Janeiro, Brazil.
It is hoped that through CuStOmeRS update them on our CR aspirations and to this digital mapping initiative, community As a service business, our ability both to encourage them to adopt a similar approach.
led strategies for adapting to climate change anticipate and meet our customers needs is risks will be strengthened.
Other larger key to our success.
We strive to ensure that we 2012 objectives donations were made to support healthcare provide high levels of service.
We achieve this Continue to build long term sustainable initiatives, which assist both our employees by building solid relationships at a local level by relationships with our key suppliers.
regularly meeting with and seeking feedback 28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 RiSKS AnD OppORtunitieS The Directors report on page 31 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis the following CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks: Risk mitigating factors CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a variety The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures including of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place throughout the accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or business as well as an established reporting framework.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally.
packages, development opportunities and career progression.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Groups employees is Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which therefore important.
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being one location as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
distribute products from nearby facilities.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international suppliers The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key suppliers to organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers are adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the Groups reputation.
monitored by the Groups purchasing departments and the QA QC department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia.
Key suppliers are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment.
The principal opportunities include: Opportunity Response Environment Throughout the world there is an increased awareness of the Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete flexibility need to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions.
to offer products that meet customers requirements.
A full range of environmentally friendly products are available.
The Group provides customers with the ability to benefit from a consolidated delivery of their consumable products.
This reduces carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from many different suppliers and streamlining the related administration for our customers.
Climate change Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather There is likely to be an increase in demand for protective clothing conditions such as floods, cyclones and heavy snowfall.
to cope with climate change as well as the need for other products supplied by the Group, such as cleaning and hygiene products.
Employees Competition for good quality people continues to be strong.
A key element of Bunzls strategy is the acquisition of high quality businesses.
This results in a number of motivated, high performing people joining the Group each year.
It also brings new ideas and fresh approaches to the business which can be utilised elsewhere in the Group.
Health & safety Throughout the world there has been an increase in health & safety This leads to an increased demand from both existing and new legislation and an emphasis on safe working environments.
customers for the Groups personal protection equipment as well as providing the potential to introduce new innovative products in this area.
