CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EXCELLENCE IN PEOPLE Seizing the energy of our brand and the passion of our people, we lead the evolution of an agile, connected Burberry, creating the talent of today and tomorrow.
Burberry is part of an extended community made up of Diversity both employees and external partners, with the twin aims A commitment to diversity remains one of our principal of being a great brand, as well as a great company to work values.
Our diverse employee population continues to for and do business with.
enrich and strengthen our company culture, driving our success as a luxury brand.
Evolving the organisation, across regions and functions, is a natural part of the business and has become second After continued expansion into emerging markets and the nature.
This year we have established a number of opening of new regional head office locations in Asia and the cross-functional strategic decision councils that enable Middle East, our global workforce continues to diversify and us to stay closely connected and make timely decisions grow.
Burberry now employs nationals of 95 countries across about business priorities that support our five key business all continents.
Each strategic council is chaired and co-chaired We continuously open our doors to new and developing talent by a member of the Executive Strategic Council and and we are focused in providing opportunities for employees individuals from cross-sections of the business are invited across the organisation to realise their full potential.
to connect and collaborate based on their expertise.
Examples of these councils include a Strategic Customer We are committed to promoting gender equality and equal Council, Strategic Innovation Council and Strategic opportunities at every level of the organisation.
management team is evenly split by gender.
In the 2010 Opportunity Now Awards, Burberry was awarded the A more robust process to identify talent and potential Female FTSE 100 Award which is presented to the UK was also implemented during the year, to feed effective business with the most women on its board.
This was in succession and workforce planning, and elevate our existing addition to receiving the FTSE Executive Women Award Leadership Development programme and bi-annual Talent which is given to the UK business that employs the most Reviews.
Every employee in the company is now eligible female executives as listed in the FTSE 100 index.
to participate in the Groups freeshare plans and is in a performance based incentive scheme.
Health, safety and wellbeing Burberry is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for its employees, customers and third party contractors.
Burberry uses a third party to undertake audits at its locations throughout the world.
The audit framework requires stores and offices to be audited at least once every three years, and distribution centres or manufacturing sites annually.
A governance framework is in place to ensure audit recommendations are addressed in appropriate timeframes, and ultimate ownership sits with the Global Health & Safety Committee, which is chaired by a Board member.
Burberry launched a wellbeing programme in 2010 2011, which was designed to encourage staff to lead healthier lifestyles.
Research identified that staff had found that the programme had increased their awareness of how to live a healthier lifestyle, and reduced the amount of sick leave.
In the UK this reduced dramatically to 0.8% days per employee compared to the 2010 Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development retail and wholesale rate of 2.6%.
58 The multi-channel customer experience In response to an increasingly multi-channel customer, the Burberry Experience sales and service programme has evolved to cover all customer interactions across all channels in-store, online, and by phone-to-deliver an exceptional, consistent and differentiated service.
In store, the roll out of the Burberry Experience began in Emerging Markets and China, after previous successful implementation in the Americas, Asia and Europe.
Consistent sales and service training is now provided across all stores globally.
The programme continues to evolve in order to enhance further the customer experience, and the first in-store pilots of multi-channel digital initiatives have been completed.
Service standards have been developed and evolved through guidelines and policies that ensure all customer-facing channels offer an elevated and globally consistent service.
The implementation of global repair centres and an International Return Policy have enhanced the after sale service, ensuring a personalised experience at every interaction with the brand.
There has been investment in improving customer service contact and this year a global in-house Customer Service team has been established.
This team provides 24 7 support to customers in 14 languages.
They engage with customers by phone, email and through Click to Chat and Click to Call on burberry.
Client Services, which provides a personalised luxury service to Burberry VICs Very Important Clients worldwide, continues to expand across all regions and to reinforce customer loyalty globally.
Specialist Client Services Consultants are now available in 30 flagship locations across the world, speaking 20 languages.
VICs also have access to Client Service Consultants online and by phone to enhance the luxury experience.
Underpinning these activities has been an initial focus on the analysis of cross-channel business activity, generating customer insight to increase retail productivity.
59 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Since its foundation in 1856, Burberry has sought to achieve the very highest quality standards.
Corporate Responsibility is at the heart of Burberry business practices, reinforcing the heritage and authenticity of the brand.
Burberry believes that to be a great brand you also In 2010 11 the Group strengthened its CR team need to be a great company.
This belief is reflected in its to a total of 16 members globally.
continued pursuit of improved Corporate Responsibility Ethical supply chain CR performance: its tackling of issues related to climate Burberry believes that its products should be made change: and efforts to inspire employees on issues only in factories that comply with local labour and of ethical trade, environmental sustainability and environmental laws and by workers who work fair but not community investment.
excessive hours, are provided with a safe, hygienic work Burberry is a member of the UN Global Compact and uses environment, and who can exercise their right to freedom the Compacts Ten Principles to guide its CR activities.
The of association as well as collective bargaining.
The majority company is also listed on the FTSE4Good Index, achieved of Burberry products are manufactured in Europe through the Carbon Trust Standard and is an active member third party suppliers.
of both the Ethical Trading Initiative and Business for All Burberry suppliers are governed by the Groups Ethical Social Responsibility.
Trading Policy, which sets clear expectations regarding The following sections outline Burberrys approach to the management of labour standards.
Four new policies tackling important social and environmental challenges, were added to this during the year, covering Bribery including some key achievements in 2010 11. and Corruption, Foreign Contract Labour, Unauthorised Sub-Contracting and Animal Welfare.
Overall highlights of the year Increased the number of factories with worker hotlines Ten Burberry team members are charged with ensuring the by 54% to a total of 33 implementation of the policy throughout the supply chain as their sole responsibility, working in partnership with Joined the Ethical Trading Initiative the first luxury third-party auditors and NGOs as appropriate to approve brand to do so and assess the activities of suppliers.
The team conducted over 700 audits, capacity building and hotline interventions Launched a Sustainability Digital Film to employees in 2010 11.
To complement its auditing programme, globally to raise awareness of corporate sustainability Burberry has trained workers in confidential worker initiatives hotline services in select factories to provide an effective Committed to increase the proportion of the Groups whistle-blowing mechanism and counselling service.
UK electricity purchased from combined heat and power sources from 29% to 100% to drive demand To achieve long-term improvements in labour conditions, for renewables in the UK Burberry provides support and resources to suppliers to empower them to take responsibility for their factory and The Burberry Foundation distributed over 2,500 iconic subcontractor conditions.
The CR team delivers supplier trench coats to partner charities in London, New training covering the Groups ethical trading expectations, York City, Hong Kong and Seoul, all working with management systems and counsel on transparency and disadvantaged youth standards for subcontractors.
CR governance Stakeholder engagement Michael Mahony, Senior Vice President Commercial Burberry understands that it cannot solve supply chain Affairs & General Counsel, is accountable for CR matters labour issues alone and maintains an open dialogue with on behalf of Burberry and the Board.
He chairs the CR suppliers, other brands, NGOs and trade unions to bring Committee, which formally reports to the Group Risk collective action to bear across the supply chain.
The CR Committee held three meetings during the year.
Two supplementary committees, the Global Sustainability Committee and Supply Chain Risk Committee met three times respectively.
60 To increase engagement with ethical trade stakeholders, Environmental sustainability Burberry joined the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI in Burberry is committed to finding innovative ways to June 2010.
The ETI is a tripartite alliance of companies, minimise environmental impacts from the production, trade unions and voluntary organisations that work distribution and sales of its products, and to reducing its collaboratively to improve the lives of workers worldwide.
environmental footprint throughout its global operations.
The work of the Business for Social Responsibility In order to embed sustainability further this year Burberry Sustainable Luxury Working Group, of which Burberry strengthened its Global Sustainability Committee to include was a founding member, also continued this year, focusing representatives from a wider variety of functions within on animal welfare guidelines and the exotic skins supply the business.
The members are designated Sustainability chain.
As a result, the release of a common Animal Welfare Leaders, responsible for embedding sustainable business Policy by the Group was communicated to Burberry practices throughout the Groups operations.
In support suppliers, detailing its high expectations in respect of of the Sustainability Leaders work, Burberry engaged all welfare standards.
employees globally via targeted digital communications encouraging them to continue to inspire and challenge Burberry is also a member of the Leather Working Group, each other towards new ways of operating.
supporting its efforts to improve transparency in the leather industry.
2010 11 environmental performance results Carbon Trust: Fur In April 2010, Burberry was awarded the Carbon Trust As a luxury brand with a strong outerwear heritage, Standard for its UK operations there will be occasions where Burberry design teams or consumer tastes expect the use of natural hides Energy: in Burberry collections.
Solar panels are being installed at the distribution centre in Vineland, USA to utilise the energy produced Burberry will not use fur if there is any concern that it to power the centre has been produced using the unacceptable treatment of animals.
Burberry safeguards the correct ethical standards Inductive motor optimisation panels were trialled in all and traceability in all fur sourcing.
Specifically, it sources fur UK manufacturing sites to reduce energy consumption from furriers who want to uphold high standards of ethical Business travel: treatment of animals and who share its concerns about Due in part to executing the Groups under-penetrated animal welfare.
Burberry publicly supported the Truth In Fur markets strategy, air travel for UK employees increased Labelling Act in the US in 2010. by 52% per 1,000 of turnover Sandblasting Waste: Burberry does not utilise sandblasting on any of its There was a renewed focus on diverting waste from products manufactured by or on behalf of the Group.
In Horseferry House there was a 54% increase Burberry requires its suppliers to use hand brushing to in waste recycled during the year distress denim products, and use all appropriate Personal Protective Equipment to ensure that workers health is The closed loop textile recycling system launched in the protected during the process.
UK last year has been expanded to Europe.
Since April 2010, Burberrys recycling partner has converted over 130 tonnes of sample and raw material waste into car Audits, training programmes, factory door insulation management follow-up visits and hotline programmes Year to March Logistics transport emissions: An unprecedented rise in sales coupled with the shift from seasonal to monthly deliveries impacted the Groups 721 ability to ship goods by sea.
To address this, a number of 11 721 key initiatives have been introduced, including centralised 10 634 logistics decision making, shortening of critical path and 09 487 increasing strategic raw materials pre-buys in order to accommodate sea transportation lead times.
61 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Performance disclosure Community investment Burberry makes annual disclosures to the Carbon Investing and engaging in the communities where Burberry Disclosure Project and Forest Footprint Disclosure.
operates remains a key element of the Burberry CR strategy.
In 2010 11, Burberry dedicated a total of 3m, or 1% of profits before tax, to charitable causes around Global building energy CO Year to March 2 the globe, a twofold increase on 2009 10.
The majority CO kg per 1,000 of turnover 2 Data excludes discontinued Spanish operations of this giving was a donation to the Burberry Foundation.
Burberry Foundation 20.4co The establishment of the Burberry Foundation in 2008 2 UK registered charity number 1123102 marked the 11 20.4 10 19.3 creation of a strategic philanthropic platform, which 09 21.5 enabled the Company to refine, focus and accelerate Burberry acquired its Chinese operations with effect from 1 September 2010. its community engagement efforts.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding both the discontinued operations in Spain and acquired business.
In China in 2010 11, our CO emissions per 1,000 turnover 2 The Foundations mission is an embodiment of company were 20.5 CO. Restatement of 2008 and 2009 data to include sites in Asia and 2 founder Thomas Burberrys core values: to protect, Emerging Markets.
Specifically, it is dedicated to helping disadvantaged young people to realise their dreams and potential through the power of their creativity.
Primary transport shipped by sea % Year to March Based on a sea vs. air freight comparison: road data has The Burberry Foundation supports innovative organisations been excluded and programmes that leverage Burberry assets, combining financial support with the knowledge, creativity and dedication of Burberry employees.
12% 11 12 The Foundation receives donations from Burberry and 10 20 other benefactors, which enable it to award strategic 09 17 grants and make targeted donations of in-kind gifts.
In 2010 11, the Foundation received 2.3m in cash and more than 260,000 in-kind donations from Burberry.
Air travel CO Year to March 2 This enabled the Foundation to support thousands of CO kg per 1,000 of turnover, based on UK Employees 2 young people in Boston, Chicago, Hong Kong, London, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Seoul, via key partnerships with 17 charity organisations.
3.0co 2 11 3.0 Employee engagement 10 2.0 As part of the Companys employee engagement 09 1.5 programme, Burberry employees are encouraged to dedicate up to four hours of paid leave per month in support of the Foundations charity partners.
Employees provide critical one-off assistance to hundreds of young people, as well as long-term support via one-on-one mentoring and weekly help with school homework.
In 2010 11 over 25% of employees located in cities where the Foundation is active offered their personal talents and business skills to help disadvantaged young people work towards realising their full potential.
In total, over 3,700 hours or 490 working days were dedicated to volunteering.
62 A significant proportion of employee engagement Corporate donations efforts are dedicated to increasing the employability of An ongoing part of doing business is to selectively support disadvantaged young people in London, New York City customer and supplier related events and charitable and Hong Kong.
Over the past three years, 126 young causes.
Each regional office has a discretionary charity people were brought into corporate offices and retail stores budget which is managed and approved locally.
for job training and hands on work experience, ranging Disaster relief from two to ten weeks.
Beginning with a week of intensive Burberry supported relief efforts following two catastrophic training designed and delivered by Burberry volunteers, the events this past year.
In support of relief efforts after entire experience provides participants with the opportunity devastating flooding in Pakistan, Burberry contributed to the to explore their own creativity and talents whilst developing Disasters Emergency Committee, an umbrella organisation the skills and confidence needed to succeed in todays for 13 humanitarian aid agencies.
In response to the complex business world.
earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March, Burberry and its Successful programme graduates receive an iconic employees contributed to Save the Children and British Red Burberry coat to further boost their confidence as they Cross to assist with relief and reconstruction efforts.
look to enter the job market armed with new skills and experiences.
This year alone, more than 200 employees Community doonations m Year to March dedicated over 1,500 hours to help change the lives of Direct donations are contributions made by the Company.
Indirect donations are donations from third parties that have been facilitated 65 young people through the job training programme.
In-kind donations Burberry regularly donates products to the Burberry 3.1m Foundation for strategic distribution through partner 11 3.1 charities.
Donations range from one-off gifts of 10 1.4 non-trademark fabric and materials for art and design 09 1.2 courses, to a large scale annual Christmas Coat Indirect Direct Donation programme.
In 2010 11, a record number of coats were distributed in London, New York City, Hong Kong, and Seoul, to charities working with disadvantaged young people to help them access employment or re-enter education.
31 organisations matched the coats with recipients for size and need, with testimonials from recipients confirming that, far from being just a gift of warmth, a Burberry coat is a gift of confidence and inspiration that will last for years to come.
