46 A AN NNU NUAL AL REPORT REPORT A AN ND D A AC CCOU COUNTS NTS 20 201 11 1 CSR SUSTAINABILITY We work to make a difference by campaigning on the issues that relate to our business, and where we have expertise.
A We believe that we have a responsibility to help strengthen the RESPONSIBLE communities and the environment in which we live and work.
We do this by becoming involved in local BUSINESS.
projects and lending our support to initiatives where we can help to enrich the quality of life and increase opportunities for all.
We have been leading the way in working with experts from the third sector about the changing needs of society, which increasingly impact our business.
This can also help the third sector to operate in a more Corporate social responsibility sustainable and commercially viable way, as traditional routes of funding CSR is about how we behave become harder to source in the as a business, whether we trade current economic climate.
ethically, how we inuence the OUR CAMPAIGNS way other organisations manage We have a programme of six CSRcampaigns which are closely themselves and the efforts we linked toour business objectives.
make to reduce our own and the Fulldetails of these campaigns canbefound in our CSR report industrys environmental impacts.
com csr, butbelow is some information on twoof the key campaigns we have focused on in2011.
FINANCIAL EDUCATION This year there has been a strong focus on education initiatives and programmes that work to improve life skills and the financial awareness of young people.
As part of our commitment to offer our skills to benefit local communities we are helping to improve the employability of students through various initiatives.
This includes employees volunteering to spend time in schools providing For more information visit our CSR website: background on the skills we look for in www.
com OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION A AN NNU NUAL AL REPORT REPORT A AN ND D A AC CCOU COUNTS NTS 20 201 11 1 47 an employee, interview hints and tips the financial demands they will face Following the research, a practical and the sort of opportunities available as young adults: programme was delivered which to the right candidate.
Other tasks specically aimed to: identify how candidates demonstrate how they can manage these skills such as teamworking, financial demands: and improve understanding of the negotiation, staying calm under medical and emotional challenges pressure and a focus on results.
how to recognise the that people face as they get older: importance of planning their There are many benets for the own personalnances.
help employees recognise issues students.
It provides a chance to visit and ask the right questions to a major local employer, experience In 2010 to 2011 over 3,100 Year 9, 10 determine if the customer has how recruitment days are run, have an and 11 pupils at schools across the needs that should be taken into interview and receive feedback to help country took part in this programme account during the call: them in an increasingly competitive and 95% of them agreed that they job market.
understood more about thedemands provide signposting to Age they will face as adults after attending UK services and other support For Legal & General employees it was the event.
networks enhancing the service an opportunity to hone and practise provided by Legal & General: their own interview techniques and FIGHTING PENSIONER POVERTY communication skills.
As part of our commitment to provide guidance on what can and tackle pensioner poverty and better should be done if a customers understand our customers we have wellbeing is in question: and Additionally we have worked with other members of our industry to been working with AGE UK.
In 2011 deliver a one-day interactive course they undertook research to help staff be aware of sight and hearing in our annuities call centre to improve issues that may require called Money, money, money which helps students understand more about: their understanding and empathy with adaptationof print size on ourcustomers.
documents or alternative methodsof communication.
EXTERNAL RECOGNITION Business in the Community BITC SIG Watch OEKOM ECPI Corporate Responsibility Index 2011 We achieved a score of 28 in 2011 in the We are held by these two SRI Houses We became Global Sector Leader in 2011 Corporate Reputation Index with NGOs.
and are rated at Platinum status with a This has enabled us to focus upon working score of 96%.
more effectively with NGOs on the issues that matter to them.
FTSE4Good Climatewise Dow Jones Sustainability Index We achieved a score of 94% in 2011, up We have improved our Climatewise Wescored 71% in 2011 up from 70% from 93% in 2010, based upon research rating to 99%, an increase of 5% from in 2010.
The Sector Leader scored 80% by SRI HouseEiris.
2010, we are now second in the insurance down from 81% in 2010. sectorglobally.
48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CSR SUSTAINABILITY OTHER AWARDS UK DONATIONS Various parts of Legal & General have been recognised During 2011, charitable donations totalling over for their CSR work in 2011.
The Legal & General Network 3.4m 2010: 3.2m were made by the Company and was shortlisted at the Business Charity Awards for by employees through approved schemes.
No political their work with Shelter, and the Savings Business was donations were made during the year.
shortlisted at the Drum Marketing Awards for their workwith the Credit Unions.
In 2011, 948 of our employees gave money to charity via our tax-efficient, Company-assisted scheme, Give As We were awarded the Arts, Business and the You Earn.
A total of 580,869 including Legal &General Community Award, at the Arts & Business Cymru matching was donated to 357 charities for2011.
Awards, for our innovative and strategically targeted community engagement.
We were also the winner CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OFCSR of the BITC South East Team Leader of the year.
Legal & Generals CSR Committee is chaired by Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive.
The CSR Committee OUR ENVIRONMENT issupported by the following sub-committees: We have made a lot of good progress this year.
As well as improving our own green credentials and inuencing Group Environment Committee those of our suppliers, LGIM and LGI have recently launched new funds which are aligned to activities Group Health and Safety Committee generated through climate change: Group Charity Committee UK Equity Carbon Optimised Index Fund, which was created to enable clients to invest in companies Group Ethics Committee identied for proactively and effectively managing Group Equalities Committee their carbon output and energy consumption.
Global Environmental Enterprises Fund, which aims Sustainable Property Investment Committee.
to provide capital growth through investment in companies that are proting from the global response The CSR Committee governs the strategy and to declining natural resources and the shift to a lower implementation of our public targets and meets at least three times a year as a governing body.
The responsibilities of the Committee are: Legal & General has been working in collaboration to develop and review the Group CSR strategy and with ClimateWise since 2008.
ClimateWise, which is supported by Cambridge University, operates across policies in relation to Group-wide Environmental, the global insurance sector.
Our performance as a Social and Governance ESG risks and opportunities identied through engaging with the Companys business is rated annually against six of the ClimateWise principles.
In 2011 we scored 99% against these stakeholders: principles, a 5% improvement over our 2009 scores.
to manage the Group stakeholder engagement Launched in 2007 by HRH The Prince of Wales, process and ensure that results are incorporated ClimateWise is a collaborative insurance initiative.
intothe decision-making process: Wework with some of the largest global insurance companies to respond to the risks and opportunities to monitor progress of the CSR sub-committees: of climate change.
Climate change impacts us all to monitor results of external benchmarking personally and as a business.
In the same way that youmay have adapted your behaviour at home or surveys: and whentravelling, we adapt how we run our business.
to ensure the CSR programme is communicated appropriately to internal and external stakeholders and in particular to review and approve the annual CSR Report.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 49 GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND TARGETS WE COMMIT AREA OF FOCUS FOR 20122014 GOVERNED BY OUR CUSTOMERS In 2012 reduce the number of customer complaints as a percentage of our customer Group Ethics To ensure customers do not receive inappropriate advice from our base 0.54% complained in 2011 or 1 in 200 customers.
To ensure policies and procedures are in place to protect customer In 2012 develop a formal NGO engagement and monitoring process to help the Group CSR information from misuse or financial crime.
Group to recognise the increasingly important role that Legal & General plays Committee To listen to and act upon customer feedback about our products in the global economy through operating and through its investments.
As part of our UK growth strategy and to support our six group-wide campaigns: To make it easier for our customers to do business withus.
Turn at least five innovative partnerships with Third Sector organisations into To develop a dialogue with all customers.
more socially inclusive products and or adjustments to service Legal & Generals To build a strong social purpose and relevance to society with customers by the end of 2013. afocus on a broader demographic.
OUR PEOPLE In 2012 improve the diversity of talent within the organisation i. e. female talent, Group To adopt policies and practices which encourage an appropriate disabilities, sexual orientation, etc so that it better reects UK customer base Equalities work life balance.
and regional employee demographics within our own business.
Encourage other Committee Work in close partnership with our recognised trades union Unite companies to do the same through our ownership as aninvestor.
and Management Consultative Forum, when making decisions that affect our employees.
To apply open and fair processes in major decisions affecting recruitment, promotions, outsourcing and downsizing.
To ensure our employees understand and implement correct ethical behaviours.
To promote and implement our Company values.
To provide a exible, supportive, healthy and safe workingenvironment.
OUR INVESTORS In 2012 we will hold 300 ESG meetings with investee companies on a global Group CSR To promote responsible ESG Environmental, Social and Governance basis, of which 25% will be covering environmental and or social topics.
This Committee business practices in the companies in which we invest to create recognises the value of the repeated engagement we carry out with companies.
Campaign and lead the development of new long-term infrastructure assets available to pension funds and investment companies, which will provide much needed capital for UK economicgrowth.
We commit to promote the sustainable management of our investment To promote positive social impact where LGP advocates significant development Sustainable property portfolio, whatever our mandate, in the belief that enhanced projects.
In particular to assess the social and environmental impacts as part of Property investor returns will be delivered.
the analysis of the viability of such schemes.
Investment As part of a three-year plan to 2013, in 2012 develop further building-by-building Committee strategies for improved sustainability performance across the whole of the investment property portfolio.
In 2012 continue at the forefront of the property sector, developing thinking and promoting improved industry performance, leading by example as recognised by the industry.
To chair a leading sustainability organisation and to contribute or publish articles in the property press.
OUR SUPPLIERS In 2012 work collaboratively with our key suppliers to identify categories of subGroup CSR To ensure our key suppliers comply with our sustainable procurement optimal supply chain.
Undertake opportunity analysis and establish action plans Committee policy at all times.
To support suppliers who do not comply with our per category of supply by end of Q1 2012.
Implementation of category action CSR standards for suppliers to facilitate improvements.
plans with demonstrable results by the end 2012.
In 2012 establish awareness amongst Legal & General Procurement Teams to the availability of products and services from the emerging Social Enterprise sector resulting in a dened policy, process required for integration into existing supply chain selection processes for the Group.
In 2012 ensure that 100% of key suppliers are compliant with Legal & Generals CSR standards for suppliers.
OUR ENVIRONMENT With an expected business growth in customer policies of 4% over the period Group 20122014 reduce waste per contract across the UK Business by 10% on 2011 Environment To reduce rather than offset our impact on the environment.
Committee With an expected business growth in customer policies of 4% over the period 20122014 reduce direct carbon dioxide emissions across the Group UK and Overseas by 6% on 2010 volumes.
With an expected business growth in customer policies of 4% over the period 2012 2014 reduce paper consumption across the Group by 10% on 2011 volumes for the UK Business whilst increasing the online servicing levels 2.7% of our customers.
To integrate environmental legislation across our business.
Continue to improve data collection, management, interpretation and build Sustainable expertise to reduce further energy use and landll waste to run our portfolio Property of commercial properties.
Specically to reduce the energy used in the top 20% Investment of buildings by 3%.
In the year to April 2011 properties that LGP was responsible Committee for generated 15,000 tonnes of CO2.
OUR COMMUNITIES In 2012 following private benchmarking of Legal & General America, Netherlands Group CSR Manage appropriate international CSR programmes to address the and France by BITC where a 30% average performance level was achieved we will Committee ESG Environmental, Social and Governance risks and reputation a improve our disclosure of these businesses in our yearly reporting cycle and in those marketplaces.
b signicantly improve BITC Ratings for these businesses.
In 2012 benchmark our joint venture companies using the BITC CR index to establish their natural level of CSR performance.
To support the community as a whole, especially on grass-roots By 2013 create a Gearing up for Work programme which will provide 200 Group Charity issues where we feel we can make a difference in keyprogrammes.
people looking to access work with a chance to be given valuable mentoring Committee To partner with Third Sector organisations to campaign for the and employment experience within Legal & General Group Plc.
issues that matter to our markets and businesses.
To support and In 2012 continue to provide at least 1,000 working days of volunteering across encourage employee involvement in charitable giving, volunteering the Group from our employees and business partners that also helps employees and in utilising the resources available to them.
to evidence the Taking a Wider Interest behaviour.
Continue to invest at least 2.5m into the Third Sector as a result of employees, business and community activities.
