38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT In 2011 we continued to make progress on the gains we made with respect to our employee surveys in 2009 and OUR PEOPLE.
We have worked to maintain thehigh levels of engagement we have achieved, by continuing to explain the Companys strategy and vision and linking this to local business areaactivities.
In the 2011 employee survey, weachieved our highest ever response rate at 87% 2010: 85% and the employee engagement index increased by two points to 76% 2010: 74%.
This is the highest scoreachieved since we have measured employee engagement.
There has been a high level of activity across the business to embed our brand organising thought, Every Day Matters.
This was measured for the first time in 2011 and levels of understanding of how Every Day At Legal & General, we recognise Matters affects our employees and the power of having employees customers on a day-to-day basis engaged in their work.
A key part achieved a very encouraging 72%.
of this is people feeling they have In addition to the internal recognition avoice.
of these improvements we have, for the first time, been ranked in The Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For.
We achieved increases in all of the eight factors that the survey investigates and accreditation as a Ones to Watch company.
This year we dened a set of six management behaviours to encourage managers across the business to focus on some key areas for improvement.
These include Takea Wider Interest, Connect with Customers and Take Ownership.
These behaviours will be adopted byall employees in 2012.
ELAINE MACLEAN GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES HR DIRECTOR OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 39 The second major initiative in 2011 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING average number of days of payments was the implementation of a new In September 2010 we launched a outstanding for the Legal & General grading structure in the UK.
The pilot wellbeing initiative in our Cardiff Group of companies was 36 2010: 34. simplicity and clarity of an eight-grade and Hove ofces.
This made use structure was essential to allow us of an online health and wellbeing Suppliers are regularly assessed to develop and implement improved service called Health Manager toensure that they comply with career paths andmobility around provided by GetWell Fitness, which our environmental, social and thebusiness.
monitors health issues, behaviour and ethical policies.
We ran a number of insight activities, The initiative also provided an COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT in the UK, US and, for the first time, extensive training programme As a large employer we encourage in2011 in France.
for line managers, free health our staff to be involved in their checks and a workplace scheme communities, either through financial Employee development has been a aimed at combating low levels contribution or with their time key theme in 2011 and will continue to of physical activity.
All areas of the business have contributed to a process of By identifying over 200 employees We also support local communities identifying and managing talent in need of early intervention, we were through volunteering.
This gives our across the business.
able to offer specialist advice at an staff the opportunity to develop new early stage.
The impact of the pilot skills while helping their community.
Our approach to people development scheme was dramatic.
Workplace Our employees undertook over and learning builds on our success absence in the pilot areas was 1,000 days of volunteering in 2011 on in 2010.
We have introduced reduced by 15% on the previous community projects and fund-raising a programme for new line managers, year and productivity was improved.
Everyday Leadership, to enable our people to realise their full potential The success of the initiative has Our policy is to treat employees and maximise their contribution.
enabled us to implement further without discrimination and This fresh, structured and measurable measures which can lead to a to operateequal opportunity approach to management development healthier, more effective workforce.
employment practices designed to will set clear expectations and help We have been able to identify the five achieve this end.
The Groups policy managers start on the path to engage most significant health issues which on diversity includes giving full and with their people, listen, communicate impact our workforce, allowing us fair consideration to applications for and driveperformance.
to develop tailored programmes to employment made by all persons: address the concerns of employees.
to continue, wherever possible, the The success of the wellbeing initiative employment of staffwhobecome EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX was such that the programme is now disabled and toprovideequal being rolled out to other Legal & opportunities for thetraining and General locations.
career development of all employees.
76% 2010: 74% SUPPLY CHAIN Management of our supply chain is an important aspect of running EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE our business efficiently and in a sustainable way.
Terms and conditions OUTLOOK for business transactions are agreed In 2012 we aim to continue to improve 8,058 with suppliers and payment is made our employees opportunities Average number of employees in accordance with these terms and access to training and career during the year excluding employees provided the suppliers obligations development whilst embedding the of consolidated private equity are met.
The Company has no trade new behaviours fully into our culture.
