32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 MARKET ENVIRONMENT MARKET AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The UK remains relatively strong globally and is the worlds third HEALTH OF largest insurance market.
It will only be overtaken by China in the next ten years according to the most recent THEINDUSTRY.
UK insurance providers have remained relatively unscathed by the global financial crisis and have seen a recovery in capital bases and share prices across the sector.
Our industry continues to be a major contributor tothe UK economy.
There has been further consolidation in the sector in 2011, with the departure of some European insurers from the Our industry continues to face high levels UK life industry which now consists of just a few major players.
While some of these changes insurers are now responsible for 75% offer opportunities, others present of sales in the UK Life market.
This does not apply across other segments challenges to the way we structure such as the Unit Trust market which and finance the Group.
ECONOMIC We have grouped these changes into The global economic recovery has faced some significant challenges fourareas: during the past 12 months.
Consumer sentiment, particularly in the major economies, has been weak as high MARKET AND COMPETITIVE levels of unemployment, rising food ENVIRONMENT and energy costs and credit constraints have curtailed spending.
Signicantly, ECONOMIC the emerging economies have SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS remained the principal driving force of global economic growth, as countries POLITICAL AND REGULATORY such as China, India and Brazil continue ENVIRONMENT to grow far more rapidly than the major developedeconomies.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 33 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL The Money Advice Service recognition that countercyclical FACTORS The Money Advice Service was dampeners should form a part of the Building consumer self-reliance launched in April 2011 to help to final package.
However, the impact of forsavings and protection address some of these issues and to Solvency II is still likely to mean that the Over reliance upon the state for help people to manage their money cost of providing financial products for pensions and disability benets has better, including offering a financial consumers will increase.
meant that a large part of the UK health check tool.
Its role is to give population has inadequate pensions clear, unbiased money advice to EUs Gender Directive and savings and is unprepared in help people make informed choices.
The implementation of the European the event of long-term sickness or This is a free, independent service set Court of Justices judgment, which disability.
The State is nding itself up by government and funded by a requires gender neutral pricing, increasingly unable to finance social levy on the financial services industry.
is also expected to take place on benets from taxation raised from the Advice and information is available 21 December 2012 and will lead working population.
At the same time, online, over the telephone and face-toto significant price changes for many consumers, especially those in face and includes information relating motor insurance, life insurance lower income and younger age groups, to issues such as the forthcoming and toalesser extent, annuities.
appear alienated from the insurance auto enrolment pension changes.
This has led to around 50% of Retail Distribution Review RDR the UK population having no life cover POLITICAL AND REGULATORY RDR is scheduled to be implemented and another 50% not being members ENVIRONMENT from January 2013.
The movement of apension scheme.
Regulation and legislation continue from commission to adviser charging, tobe major transformational factors which will often involve end customers Financial education for insurers.
paying fees rather commissions on A lack of understanding of how sales of savings products, is likely to financial services work and can EUs Solvency II regime have a profound effect on the market.
benefit consumers is a contributory The implementation of the EUs Taken together with the introduction factor in leaving many people Solvency II regime is now likely to of higher professional qualications, disengaged from the insurance be delayed until January 2014 at the it may well mean a reduction in the industry.
Many people struggle to earliest, with the FSA running its number of IFAs, many of whom understand financial terminology and triennial adequacy test in advance of may choose to focus only on afuent nd it difficult to understand the cost Solvency II implementation.
Some banks have and benets of saving for the future some uncertainties remain, debate also moved away from giving and protecting themselves against continues in Europe and we are advice on investments to mass financial hardship.
heavily engaged to help to secure afuent customers.
KEY GOVERNMENT POLICY INITIATIVES AFFECTING OUR SECTOR CONSULTATION TOPIC OUR RESPONSE PENSION REFORM We broadly supported the principle of a at rate pension for all as we believe the clarity this would give individuals would encourage increased engagement in 25,874 retirement planning.
Average size of pension fund used to buy an annuity in 2010.
We were closely involved in the Governments review of auto enrolment and are ABI gures 2011. encouraged by the increased coverage of workplace pensions this will deliver.
LONG-TERM CARE We believe that change is needed in this area and that any settlement must be clear.
People need to understand what the State will provide and what their own 26,000 per year responsibilities are.
Current average long-term care bill.
The Dilnot Commissions recommendations for a partnership model have the From Who cares?
The implications of a new partnership potential to deliver this through an extended means-test and a cap on care costs.
to fund long-term care CII, September 2011.
SIMPLE FINANCIAL We believe it would be possible to develop a simple products brand.
Success in PRODUCTS reaching the consumer, however, will depend on education, on tapping into life-events 43% and existing distribution channels, and on clear and simple communication without Percentage of UK adults with life cover.
the complications and costs which arise from excessive and unpredictable regulation.
Many simple products already exist, such as ISAs and term assurance, and we feel that distribution channels and mechanisms are in many ways more important than the development of the underlying products.
34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 MARKET ENVIRONMENT This should mean that there will be greater opportunities RESTRUCTURING OF THE UK REGULATORY REGIME to offer products through non-advised distribution, In May and June 2011 the Bank of England and the including online.
Greater direct engagement with FSA published their approach documents for the new customers by product providers is likely to be Financial Conduct Authority FCA and Prudential required.
The changes will also mean that fewer retail Regulation Authority PRA.
customers and employers may be prepared to pay a fee to switch providers, leading to higher persistency Under the new arrangements, the FCA will be equipped on savings products.
with a variety ofpowers to support its statutory duty to protect consumers from detriment.
Among others, it will TAX ENVIRONMENT have powers to ban the sale of particular products from a We support the Chancellors aims to make the UK given financial institution for up to 12 months, take action the most competitive tax system in the G20 and the over misleading adverts or promotions, and disclose best location for corporate headquarters in Europe.
consequent disciplinary actions against individuals or Whilst the Governments proposals for reform of the rms.
Itwill also be able to initiate referrals to the Ofce Controlled Foreign Companies CFC regime should play of Fair Trading.
a significant part towards achieving this policy objective, the current draft rules require further work to ensure the The primary focus of the PRA will be on financial stability new regime achieves the desired outcome.
issues and the resolvability of rms that pose a threat to the financial system at large.
Acting under the instructions We also welcome the reductions in headline corporation of the Bank of Englands Financial Policy Committee to tax rates which will bring down the rate of corporation tackle issues of micro-prudential concern, it is intended tax to 23% by 2014.
We believe that in the medium term that the PRA will bring about a proactive intervention this step will also help to boost investment and growth in regime to deal with rms that get into difficulties.
We have taken the step of recognising the tax rate reductions in our 2011 EEV gures.
The effect of this on These changes are profound and likely to have a significant shareholders equity is disclosed at Note 13 on page 212 impact on the regulatory environment for financial services of the financial statements.
We observe that there have recently been anumber LAUNCH OF THE GOVERNMENTS PENSION AUTO of highly publicised cases regarding whether or not ENROLMENT RULES companies have been paying a fair level of tax in the UK.
From October 2012, the phased implementation of the We aim to be transparent about the tax we pay and have Governments auto enrolment pension scheme will set our specic information on page 15 of this report.
provide a large stimulus to the workplace pensions market.
Every employer will be obliged to provide group pension EMPLOYEE WELFARE arrangements for its full workforce, with employees who In November, the Frost Black Report, which looked into do not currently have workplace arrangements, being auto long-term sickness and the cost to employers, taxpayers enrolled into a new or existing scheme or the default NEST and the economy, was presented to the Government.
Implementation has been delayed for smaller One of its recommendations was tax relief for basic rms, but all employers must act by September 2016. rate taxpayers on any expenditure incurred by an employer specically targeted at helping long-term absent employees PRESSURES ON THE PROVISIONOF FINANCIAL back into the workplace through medical treatments or BENEFITS BY THE STATE vocational rehabilitation.
Whilst the estimated cost to the The desire to reduce the UKs budget deficit has Exchequer would be some 150m, it is expected that this accelerated the Governments intent to look at the will be more than offset by additional tax revenue from balance between financial services provision from the more people in work and the savings it will bring to private sector and the state.
This is a complex area businesses.
We are fully supportive of this proposal and changes may not be realised in the lifetime of this which is aimed at protecting the wellbeing of employees.
Areas where the state could look towards the insurance industry to replace state benets include longterm care, disability benets and private sector pensions.
Legal & General is currently involved in consultations and working parties in all these areas.
