Man Group plc Report and accounts 42 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Business sustainability Ensuring the sustainability of our business and retaining the trust of our key stakeholders are fundamental to the success of our strategy.
Man has been in business for 229 years, starting life as a and turnover PG 45, funds under management generated Thames-side barrel maker in the City of London and evolving from innovative new products and solutions PG 38, the value into a best in class alternative asset manager.
Adapting our of our charitable donations and the percentage of employees business model to market opportunities, rigorously monitoring involved in their communities PG 46. our strategy for growth and changing when necessary are at the core of the sustainability of our business.
We monitor our The table below shows our key stakeholders, the elements of progress through financial KPIs PG 22 but also through business sustainability which interest them most and the more qualitative measures, such as employee length of service places in this report where these areas are discussed.
To find out more about our business sustainability.
com Quality of investment Client Risk Corporate People Community management service management governance Innovation management engagement PG 32 PG 40 PG 24 PG 48 PG 38 PG 44 PG 46 Distributors Employees current and prospective Financial institutions Fund investors institutional and retail Shareholders Suppliers Trading counterparties 2011 12 Man Group plc Report and accounts 43 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate responsibility 5.
Protecting the environment Corporate responsibility lies at the heart of business sustainability.
Our corporate responsibility strategy is to pursue and evidence where possible the high standards of behaviour, both corporate and individual, which underpin our reputation and maintain the trust and loyalty of all our key stakeholders.
We focus on five key areas of corporate responsibility.
World class governance and risk management PG 24 Risk management More information about Mans approach to business sustainability and corporate responsibility, including extensive PG 48 measurement of our success in these fields, can be found at Corporate www.
The website describes the governance development of our infrastructure buildings and IT using state of the art technology and demonstrates how this helps reduce our environmental impact.
An example of this is Riverbank House, Mans new London office, which was awarded an Excellent category under BREEAM certification, the worlds 2.
Responsibilities to our marketplace leading design and assessment method for sustainable buildings.
The data featured on our sustainability website is PG 18 independently verified by The Virtuous Circle Ltd.
Marketplace In December 2011 Man became a signatory to the United PG 40 Nations Principles for Responsible Investing UN PRI.
This Client engagement framework encourages sustainable investing by incorporating environmental, social and governance ESG issues into investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Mans investment management practices support the aims of UN PRI in the following ways.
Managing our people Investing in technology and training to enable investment managers to take ESG factors into account and encourage PG 44 listed companies to improve on ESG criteria People Running the GLG Global Sustainability Strategy and managing the Virgin Climate Change Fund PG 62 Running an effective Corporate Responsibility programme, Remuneration as judged by inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Being a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project and a member of the FTSE4Good Encouraging independent academic teaching and research at the Oxford Man Institute PG 34 Supporting charities and local communities through the 4.
Contributing to our communities Man Charitable Trust PG 46 Sponsoring the Man Booker literary prizes and advocating PG 46 literacy.
