Man Group plc Report and accounts 44 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Our people To achieve superior performance for our clients and shareholders we need to have the right people in the right roles, fully motivated and competitively paid.
We are very conscious of the need to provide appropriate development for our talented and increasingly international workforce.
Encouraging effective collaboration and teamwork across the Company, within the bounds of regulation and Michael Robinson, Global Head of Human Resources good governance, is a key part of our Human Resources strategy.
Human resources strategy Our human resources objectives are aligned with the strategic priorities for Man, designed to deliver superior investment performance whilst serving our clients in the most efficient and secure manner, without compromising risk.
We achieve this by hiring the most able people and developing and motivating them in an environment which stimulates innovation and People by function, as at 31 December 2011 profitable growth.
% Efficiencies One of our key objectives in 2011 was to achieve cost savings through operational efficiency by streamlining and where 1 2 3 4 5 6 possible merging activities across the business.
This project affected every part of Man including sales and investment management.
The largest savings however, were achieved in 1.
Investment Management 25 the client services and technology functions where we were 2.
Sales & Marketing 21 able to take advantage of third party relationships to deliver 3.
Product & Client Operations 17 efficient, cost effective operations and scale.
Technology Group 13 resulted in 11% enforced turnover.
Governance 16 It is important that we treat those impacted by redundancy 6.
Central Management & Support 8 fairly and respectfully whilst protecting the Company from potential litigation.
We provide assistance to individuals who are People by region, as at 31 December 2011 made redundant which includes career advice, interview Number preparation and guidance on developing their networks to help UK 888 them transition to a new role.
Switzerland 345 USA 138 Talent Asia Pacific 89 Despite the challenging market conditions, we believe it is Others 110 important to maintain a pipeline of talented individuals for the Total 1,570 future of the business.
Continued investment in graduate Man Group plc Report and accounts 45 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 recruitment has resulted in seven new recruits and a 90% Mans culture is based on mutual respect for others and conversion rate to permanent roles from the previous intake.
discrimination by any individual on the grounds of age, The total number of graduate entrants confirmed in permanent disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or roles since the scheme was started in 2007 is now 48. educational background is not acceptable.
We offer tangible support through our employee assistance programmes, which We focus on retention through our annual performance are designed to assist individuals with aspects of their lives evaluation and succession planning processes.
During 2011 we outside the workplace which may affect their ability to perform.
revised our performance appraisal to align with the latest regulatory requirements and risk control policies.
This annual Global mobility review is a valuable opportunity for managers to give individuals Our Global Mobility Programme enables us to meet specific feedback on their performance and how their careers can business needs within given markets or business areas.
progress within the Company, particularly during difficult times.
Assigning people overseas assists us in attracting, retaining Our continuous succession planning process is designed to and developing our people in order to meet our business goals mitigate continuity risks by identifying key individuals for and strengthen our geographic footprint.
This creates a diverse retention and further development.
We maintained our strong talent pool with varied perspectives and enhanced sharing of record of no loss of key individuals through voluntary turnover our knowledge base.
Our globally mobile population was 8% of headcount during This year we consolidated our global management and 2011 with the majority moving between Switzerland, the UK, leadership programmes to contain costs whilst maintaining our Hong Kong and the US.
commitment to individual and team development.
These programmes play an important part in reinforcing the culture Turnover annualised, based on 9 months to and values of the Company.
We have combined our 31 December 2011 commitment to investing in our people with supporting the local % 15 community, working with the East London Business Alliance ELBA to create a collaborative experience involving our senior 12 11 10 leadership programme participants and local school children.
The facilities at Riverbank House, our new London office, 5 allowed us to run these programmes on site, generating cost savings and reducing the time away from the office.
0 Enforced Voluntary Remuneration Our remuneration policy is set within a robust governance framework which supports Mans business strategy.
Pay for the Average length of service, as at 31 December 2011 period reflected the performance of both the company and the Years 6 individuals concerned.
Our remuneration policies and practices 5.8 5.4 are designed to enable us to remain competitive in the 4.8 increasingly global markets in which we operate.
We manage 4.6 4.4 4.4 4 remuneration decisions on the basis of total compensation with a mix of fixed and variable performance related pay together with, where appropriate, long term incentives which reflect both 2 current and future performance.
We continue to encourage alignment between employees and shareholders through share and option plans and share ownership.
48% of staff currently 0 Investment Sales & Product & Technology Governance Central Management Marketing Client Group Management & participate in share and option plans and thus have the mindset Operations Support of a shareholder.
Additionally, the Board and employees own around 12% of the Companys share capital.
Further information is set out in the Remuneration report PG 62.
Employee engagement and support Employees receive regular updates and presentations on Company results and major decisions which affect them through face to face meetings or, if necessary, via a video link.
The Man intranet is used to provide supplementary updates from senior management on all aspects of our business and is a critical part of the dissemination of knowledge and information.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 46 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 The predictions for the voluntary sector for 2012 are gloomy with most charities predicting an even worse year than 2011.
Many charities survived the year by utilising their reserves, re-focusing their business models and making redundancies.
Any further cuts in central and local statutory funding will place Community many in such a precarious position that it will dramatically affect the services they provide, causing even more hardship to the most vulnerable in our communities.
engagement We are passionate about maintaining our presence in our local communities, particularly in this difficult economic climate, and are also expanding our volunteering programme in order to maximise our impact through time and expertise.
Lesley King-Lewis Mans charitable contribution is based on the financial performance of the business.
As a result of lower performance fees Man donated $1.5 million in the period $3.8 million in the year ended 31 March 2011 to the Trust and charitable committees of our overseas offices.
With less funding available we narrowed our focus to support those charities working with the most excluded and disadvantaged, such as supporting the homeless or long-term unemployed into education, training or employment.
The Trust built up its reserves in 2009 in order to ensure we were able to maintain a consistent level of giving and Total $3.8m charitable expenditure for therefore donated $3.8 million in this period to support charities 9 months ended 31 December 2011 when they needed it the most.
% Community and philanthropy have always been important to our employees and our employee volunteering programme ManKind has continued to be extremely popular with over 20% of our employees taking part.
Activities range from serving breakfast to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 the homeless to facilitating employability workshops for disaffected youth and mentoring students in further education.
Literacy & Numeracy 9 Our new Annual Charity for 2012 will be the Starlight Childrens 3.
Vulnerable Populations 17 Foundation, which grants seriously and terminally ill children 4.
Disaster Relief 4 their once in a lifetime wish.
We look forward to working with 5. International 7 Starlight to help ease the pain, fear and isolation for even more 6.
Other Donations 9 A huge thank you to all of our employees who have volunteered their time, energy and skills over the year and to those who Trustees of the Man Charitable Trust The Trust have also donated via their Give as You Earn accounts and the Peter Clarke Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Mark Chambers, Trusts sponsorship matching scheme.
David Kingsley, Britt Lintner appointed June 2011, Lesley Northey appointed September 2011, Lesley King-Lewis resigned February 2012, Jasveer Singh.
Director, Man Charitable Trust Man Group plc Report and accounts 47 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Employee highlights Community highlights Eaves The Trust supports Eaves, a The Place2Be The Annual Charity chosen charity that provides support to vulnerable by our UK employees in 2011 was The women through a range of services Place2Be, a school-based counselling including accommodation, support and service, dedicated to improving the advocacy for women who are affected by emotional well-being of children.
With an domestic violence, rape or sexual abuse.
initial donation of $120,000 from the Trust, The Trust made a three year commitment UK employees raised an additional to The Poppy Project which provides $133,000 for the charity through a range of support to women trafficked into the UK activities including a 469-foot abseil down for the purposes of exploitation in the Guys Hospital Tower in London.
Tower Hamlets Education Business Community Links Community Links Partnership Every week a dedicated team is an innovative east London charity, of UK employees spend their lunch hour running a wide range of community supporting children with their reading at a projects in Newham for over 30,000 local primary school.
The children not only people every year.
They have over 30 benefit from the extra literacy support but years of experience working with local improve their communication skills and people to support children, young people, self-confidence, as well as gaining an insight adults and families in one of the most into a life often very different from their own.
The Trust made a two year commitment to the The Connection at St Martin-in-the charitys drop-in Advice Service which Fields The Workspace team at The provides specialist advice to 10,000 Connection provide employment training vulnerable people on a wide range of and education support to Londons issues every year.
Employees facilitated a number of workshops, helping homeless clients The Passage The Trust supported The with mock interview and CV preparation, Passage, a charity that provides shelter providing advice, guidance and feedback.
and a variety of support services to the homeless in Victoria, London.
Each day Spitalfields City Farm Located on the the charity provides help to more than edge of the City of London, Spitalfields 200 homeless and vulnerable men and City Farm provides education and women.
Services include a Day Centre, environmental opportunities to local offering basic care, advice, health, communities.
The farm is used to teach housing, education, training and young people all aspects of the curriculum, employment and outreach services through learning about animal care, for rough sleepers.
gardening and sustainable city living.
Our employees spent time carrying out The Mirabel Foundation The Mirabel tasks to help maintain the site which is Foundation is the only organisation in a vital hub in the local community.
Australia specifically supporting children orphaned or abandoned due to parental Organizacin San Vicente OSV illicit drug use.
These children are now in The Annual Charity for Switzerland in 2011, the care of extended family kinship care.
OSV, is an organisation working in the Mirabel is currently supporting over 1,000 biggest slum of Montevideo to improve the children throughout Victoria and New quality of life for families who survive out of South Wales and believes that working what they can salvage from the garbage closely with these children is the most produced in richer areas.
In addition to the proactive way of breaking the destructive $50,000 initial donation received as Charity cycle of abuse.
Mirabel works at restoring of the Year, OSV received a further sum of a childs sense of self-worth, belonging $55,000 raised at the annual Charity Swim and hope for the future in order for them event held in Pfffikon.
This year, over thirty to reach their full potential Man and Credit Suisse employees swam a. distance of 1.2 or 2.4 km in Lake Zurich, with supporters cheering them on from the lake shore.
