party 63 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Employees We believe that the investment we make in supporting One of the unfortunate but inevitable employees with their continuing career development helps consequences from a merger of equals is tocreate a sustainable approach to meet our current and future skill requirements.
It also underpins our commitment the need to remove duplicate roles across to create a working environment that facilitates and a number of disciplines.
This is neveran enhances the career development and training of all employees.
We provide employees with the time to develop easy process.
Having determined the right skills and learn new ones to fulfil their personal potential.
organisation structure, we then had to Improving our internal communications remains a key focus.
select the right people for theright jobs We know that a well-motivated and engaged workforce will inthe right locations.
understand and commit to our business strategy.
We make extensive use of our intranet, strategy road shows, Town Hall During 2011, 122 employees were made redundant with meetings, email and other information channels channels afurther 81 due to leave during 2012.
We put in place an that are not just for managers to disseminate corporate Employee Assistance Programme, which includes utilising messages, but also for employees to feedback to outplacement services where practicable, to help employees management, recognising the merits of open dialogue whose role was being removed to find a new job outside thatflows throughout the organisation.
Whats it like to work for us?
Find out at: Delivering the new organisation structure was of paramount www.
com Careers importance: it marked the beginning of our future as one company.
This was only the beginning of the process as we still had to meld different cultures, working practices, policies, reward schemes, training programmes and much more besides.
We made great progress during 2011, but there arestill things to do including: Clear benefits In March 2012 we launched Unifying our approach to performance management, Just.
rewards, a flexible benefits especially learning and development and the setting scheme, in London and Gibraltar that ofmeasurable personal objectives: we plan to extend to all employees Ensuring that employees learn and benefit from bringing together different cultures: Introducing a universal flexible approach to remuneration and benefits: Creating a new employer brand to articulate to current and future employees what it is like to work for bwin.
party: Developing new employee values that enhance our business performance: and Rolling out a specially-developed leadership training programme for managers.
