party 59 Overview 02 Responsibility Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 and relationships Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Our approach to corporate responsibility Our focus is on the long-term returns that can be obtained from committed investment in responsible andsustainable business practices, particularly in relation to our core business and our key stakeholders including the communities where we have a physicalpresence.
A core objective is to embed acting responsibility into There is no formal requirement to have an ethics committee, ourbusiness.
As an industry leader, we aim to provide but the Board agrees that corporate responsibility is theworlds safest and most innovative gaming platform, important for the Groups long-term success.
The Ethics onethatis based upon customer trust, a desire for Committee has a broad remit, including reviewing the operational excellence and supported by evidenceadequacy of our corporate  policies: basedscientific research.
proposals and procedures, which in turn include responsible gaming, compliance with our gaming licences, anti-money There is no set definition for corporate responsibility, but it is laundering, fairness and integrity of gaming systems: and without question a complex area comprising many different ourimpact on the environment and communities where we components.
We draw upon both internal and external have offices.
expertise and procedures to uphold high standards.
We have invested large amounts of human and financial capital in The remainder of this section of the Annual report provides building the requisite trust and confidence in our products insight into our overall approach to each of our key and brands: attributes that are valuable for our franchise stakeholder groups.
andthat we seek to protect.
As well as ensuring that we have a high level and independent oversight of our corporate and responsible gaming practices, our approach also covers wider corporate responsibility initiatives, including our contribution to society through charitable donations and a pro bono scheme that enables employees to take time out from work to support local community projects.
Martin Weigold, Chief Financial Officer, has executive responsibility for our corporate responsibility matters, a role he has held since 2005.
The overall process is overseen by theEthics Committee of the Board chaired by Tim Bristow, anIndependent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee has three other Non-Executive Board members, Per Afrell, Helmut Kern and Lord Moonie who meet regularly to review ethical and social matters relating to all of our activities.
party 60 Responsibility Annual report & accounts 2011 and relationships At the positive end of the assessment spectrum, we were GoodCorporation commended for our approach to corporate responsibility As part of our commitment to responsible and sustainable with GoodCorporation citing that: The study on addiction business practice, towards the end of 2011 we commissioned and plans to use this to prevent problem gambling is  to undertake an independent assessment leading.
As GoodCorporation noted, our challenge now is of our management processes and policies regarding key toconvert the study on addiction into a workable model.
GoodCorporation is recognised globally as Thiswill take time, butwe intend to make it happen.
aleading organisation working in the field of corporate Ourengagement with shareholders was also commended responsibility and business ethics.
forsetting the standards for thesector.
Assessment of 55 business practices impacting five The responsibility to rectify areas of weakness and also stakeholder groups were conducted at six of our offices.
improve what is already working well falls upon our senior Thefive stakeholder groups were employees, customers, management team that has an action plan to implement shareholders, community, and management.
Almost 150 during the course of 2012. managers and employees were interviewed, equal to around 5% of the total workforce as well as a number of our key external stakeholders.
For each of the stakeholder groups, the general scope of GoodCorporations independent assessment involved asking: Does a policy exist?
Is there a system to implement the policy?
Do records show that the system works in practice?
Do stakeholders agree that it works and is fair?
Given that the assessment was conducted just nine months after the completion of our merger, during an intense period of integration activity and regulatory change, we were satisfied with GoodCorporations findings.
We anticipated that the review would identify matters that needed to be addressed and areas where we could improve.
Whilst we were aware of most of the items identified, there were also some additional issues raised and we plan to address these in 2012.
Not surprisingly, many of the observations made by GoodCorporation related to unfinished integration work.
Forinstance, there remained some inconsistencies across locations regarding employee contracts, policies and procedures.
Many of these have already been rectified or are in the process of being updated.
A number of issues will be and are being resolved through improvements in both internal communications and training.
