party 61 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Customers and responsible gaming Protection of minors and vulnerablepeople Millions of customers around theworld The vast majority of online gamblers play in a moderate way, place their trust in ourpromise to provide purely as a means of entertainment a claim that we can them with great entertainment in substantiate through analysis of our own players.
However, gambling problems can arise for a small percentage of players asafeandsecure gaming environment.
a number of national prevalence studies have shown that Trust is more thana fundamental typically between 0.5% and 2% of populations are estimated to gamble excessively, possibly indicating pathological customer need: itis essential for our gambling.
Our aim has been tounderstand our customers long-term success.
behaviour and to be able to develop player protection tools based upon a solid body of scientific evidence.
It was this We seek to engrain our approach to act responsibility into objective that prompted our close collaboration with the everything we do.
Our commitment to responsible gaming DOAto answer some fundamentally important questions: isunderpinned by pioneering scientific research undertaken through our close collaboration with the Division on How do gamers play on the internet?
Addiction, Cambridge Health Alliance, a Harvard Medical How can we make online gambling safe?
Is it possible to create an algorithm to help identify online Responsible gaming at bwin.
party is built around three pillars: players who may be at risk?
Game fairness Since it began in 2005, this collaboration has resulted in the Independent organisations closely monitor the fairness and worlds largest body of scientific evidence for online gambling random nature of our gaming products.
We design our based upon actual behaviour of tens of thousands of our marketing communications to try and ensure that they are customers.
clear and not misleading and that they present a fair gaming The DOA has recognised the possibilities that the internet offer.
In addition, our in-house investigations teams and our offers, utilising precise data about each individual gaming experienced bookmakers work together to ensure customers transaction to launch a stream of research documenting are protected against fraud and manipulation.
This protective actual online gaming behaviour and creating new shield is reinforced by our close cooperation with the opportunities to develop safer online gaming environments.
European Sports and Security Association ESSA, an international non-profit organisation dedicated to Our gaming sites use several different verification promotingintegrity in sports betting through the monitoring mechanisms to prevent underage gambling and our policies of bookmaker odds to identify suspicious betting patterns are scientifically evaluated to protect players effectively.
and report them within the framework of an early warning Our approach to responsibility also led to the creation system to the relevant governing sporting body.
ofourTransparency Project that makes available Keeping crime and corruption out of sports helps to ensure alloftheresearch data and studies online at: alevel playing field for betting.
The industry has developed www.
aco-operation programme with the European Elite Athletes To date, the collaboration with the DOA has resulted in 16 Association representing member associations from 15 scientific papersbeing published three of them in 2011. countries with over 25,000 professional athletes.
The result Allresearch is published only after a strict peer-review has been a joint code of conduct to provide general advice to processin recognised international scientific journals.
all athletes throughout Europe about the issues surrounding the integrity of sport and betting.
In 2011, the code of conduct was accompanied by a comprehensive educational campaign carried out by top athletes in the locker room.
Hearing about the dangers of corruption in sport and betting from fellowathletes has proven to be a powerful channel of communication and the programme has already reached more than 8,500 athletes.
party 62 Responsibility Annual report & accounts 2011 and relationships We have continued to develop an international healthcare For our employees, we enhanced our online responsible network to facilitate a valuable exchange of best practise and gaming training programme in 2011.
The training is called foster scientific-based co-operation for the prevention of EMERGE Executive, Management, Employee Responsible problem gambling.
Two more members joined the network Gaming Education andwas developed by the DOA.
in2011 the Federacin Espaola fide Jugadores fide Azar Our efforts were rewarded in 2011 by being voted Rehabilitados Spain and the Research Clinic on Gambling SociallyResponsible Operator of the Year at the eGaming Disorders of Aarhus University Hospital Denmark.
A prime benefit of the network, which now spans seven EU Further information about all the aspects of our approach Member States, is that customers can quickly access contact tocorporate sustainability can be accessed at: details for counselling services in several different languages.
com Sustainability Other player protection mechanisms on our sites include deposit limits, self-exclusion and tools to help them assess whether they are at risk of developing a gambling problem.
Soon after the end of 2011, we became a founding member ofthe ICT Coalition for a Safer Internet for Children and Young People ICT.
Twenty-five of the worlds leading companies from across the information and communications technology sector are signatories to the ICTs principles, which aim to ensure that children and young people obtain the greatest benefit from new technologies while avoiding the challenges and risks which are of concern to people worldwide.
party, other ICT members include Facebook, RIM, Nokia, Vodafone, France Telecom-Orange, LG Electronics and Google.
com safer mobile ICT Principles.
pdf Player security Security is a key priority.
The protection of our players, especially their confidential data, is based upon the requirements of our gaming licenses and also the robust industry framework for self-regulation stipulated by the European Gaming and Betting Association EGBA.
Protecting players also includes our compliance with the EU Money Laundering Directive and the reporting of any suspicious activity to the relevant authority.
Following our engagement in 2010 11 with the European Committee for Standardisation to develop an  for high level player protection on the internet, bwin.
party has achieved certification for the High standards 134control measures contained in the resulting CWA At the eGaming Review awards 16259:2011 standard.
we received the award for Socially Responsible Operator of the year Our efforts to take player protection standards to a higher in2011 level also involved working together with leading European non-profit organisations that included eCOGRA, which provides an international framework for best operational practice, and GamCare, the UKs leading provider of information, advice, support and free counselling for theprevention and treatment of problem gambling.
