Each of our four regional businesses Our Caribbean business, LIME, organised Corporate has developed its own CSR programme some large community events such as Skool which complies with the Groups four Aid, a back-to-school fair for children at the social responsibility responsibility principles, and many Jamworld Centre in Portmore, Jamaica.
The have also launched social telecoms fair featured free immunisation, free dental telecoms-enabled public services checks, free hair cuts and school safety projects.
Examples of the important discussions from the police.
work our business units have undertaken LIME is also sponsoring the CARIFTA over the year are listed below.
Caribbean Free Trade Association Games for the next two years and was 01 Contribute positively to the social a major contributor to a Caribbean-wide and economic development of the telethon fundraiser for the victims of communities in which we operate the Haiti earthquake.
The Group contributed US$1.07 million We place significant to charitable and community projects over A large number of LIME colleagues the last year covering a variety of issues participated in Kindness Day where good importance on corporate and activities.
Our businesses also sponsored deeds were performed.
LIME assisted over many events.
We are extremely proud of our 500 people during the day.
social responsibility business units contribution to improving the In Macau, fundraising events were CSR activities.
Our CSR societies in which we serve.
This would not undertaken, mainly for the Red Cross, to happen without the tremendous efforts of agenda underpins the assist recovery efforts following mudslides in our colleagues.
the Chinese provinces of Zhouqu and Gansu way we operate our Our Panama business, in partnership with and an earthquake in the province of Sichuan.
MER Consortium, last year completed a Macau also signed a scholarship agreement business to contribute US$28 million project to develop a 911 and internship placement programme emergency call centre in Panama.
The entire with the University of Saint Joseph.
system was developed in just five months.
collaboration between the two parties The business also continues to support the will enhance the development of both the National Oratory Contest and is implementing students and our employees.
Macau also initiatives to close the digital divide in remote participated in the Mid-Autumn Festival, areas, such as providing internet connectivity a community event in which people help to the school of Macaracas.
the elderly and the underprivileged.
Our Maldives business, Dhiraagu, donated 02 Respect cultures, values and human telemedicine equipment to the Maldivian rights throughout our operations Ministry of Health and Family.
The We have an active ethics programme.
The telemedicine system can be installed on any Group has reviewed its anti-bribery policy remote island and medical services to patients in light of revised UK anti-bribery legislation.
can be provided using the system through an internet connection to hospitals in the capital, The business units support various religious Mal.
Dhiraagu has also been recognised for festivals of all denominations, as well as its support of a Child Helpline project and country independence celebrations.
Dhiraagu its contribution to the development of Kuda was involved in an evening ceremony to Kudhinge Hiya orphanage.
Dhiraagu also celebrate the Maldives independence.
sponsored numerous events including the Panama sponsored the parade of the 1,000 Tiny Hearts of Maldives Football Tournament, typical dresses of the Azuero Penisula, during which raised money to support families Panamas national holidays.
The Panama affected by congenital heart defects.
business also held its annual employee talent show which this year focused on the magic Our Falklands business supported a local and joy of the African continent.
cancer awareness charity and provided funding for the local end of year school In the Seychelles the business was actively Ball and other traditional competitions involved in child protection week and also and festivals.
26 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review 04 facilitated the setting up of a helpline Seek continuous improvement Whilst the Group is committed to seeking to assist its Ministry of Healths sexual in our environmental performance opportunities to reduce its carbon footprint, health campaign.
During the year we improved our given our new reporting processes, we are environmental reporting techniques.
We have not at this stage intending to set specific Macau organised a seminar to enhance contracted with an external carbon reporting performance targets.
colleagues awareness of corruption company to monitor and report in more detail prevention and integrity.
They also on our energy use.
The availability of reports participated in World Challenge Day.
The on energy consumption varies across our opponent city this year was Sorocaba, Brazil.
business and therefore, we have adopted Summary by activity 100 CTM colleagues exercised in the car park estimation techniques.
We intend to use these for 15 minutes to promote a healthy lifestyle.
tCO e 2 figures as our baseline for future reporting.
All of our businesses promote the training We estimate our carbon footprint to be and employment of nationals rather 1 2 198,507 tonnes of CO e based on our 2 3 than expatriates.
4 In particular our electricity consumption was 03 Nurture best practice in our activities 200 million kWh this year and our fuel usage Developing people is also important to our was 5.2 million litres.
The business units operate colleague recognition schemes, notably Panama which We continue to actively use high definition holds an annual ceremony to recognise the video conferencing facilities across the achievements of high performing colleagues.
This helps to reduce our business We also actively seek new talent.
In Macau travel requirements, but travel is still we support the University of Macau Future necessary due to our geographical spread.
1 Business travel 9,103 Studies and Placement Centre by providing We estimate our CO usage from business 2 2 Company guidance on student career development.
travel to be 103 tonnes of CO e. 2 -owned vehicles 10,772 As in previous years, we undertook a The regions continue to introduce initiatives 3 Premises 178,616 Group-wide Gallup employee engagement to reduce energy consumption.
In Macau, a 4 Long term leased survey.
This is the sixth survey and 85% of programme to replace fluorescent lights with vehicles 16 colleagues responded.
Panama and Macau LED tubes continued over the last 12 months.
have attained a Gallup best practice ratio 2,745 tubes have been replaced and the for the number of engaged to disengaged project will continue until all are LED based.
colleagues when compared to all the results Macau has also introduced other energy contained in the Gallup worldwide database.
saving ideas including fitting time switches Summary by WBCSD WRI Scope to lights so they automatically turn off out Our colleagues have utilised their knowledge tCO e 2 of hours or when an area is not being used.
and expertise to deliver special projects over Casual dress summer was also started in and above their normal daily activity.
Our Macau, which enabled the air conditioning 1 3 Maldivian colleagues put their technology systems to be run at slightly higher 2 knowledge to good use by providing a web temperatures to reduce energy consumption.
hosting package to facilitate news updates for families and supporters of the Maldivian In Diego Garcia we have looked to reduce athletes attending the Asian Games.
Our Isle energy consumption by introducing controls of Man business successfully set up a text around light usage and reprogramming air line during the islands famous TT motorcycle conditioning systems to only work when races.
The University of Seychelles now required.
benefits from a full telecom service whilst Our Panama business started a collect and Dhiraagu also upgraded internet connectivity recycle programme for disused technology to enable delegates at a large technology 1 Scope 1 19,547 equipment.
conference to have faster access.
2 Scope 2 168,720 Our customer billing systems continue to 3 Scope 3 10,240 As part of its procurement processes, the be upgraded, with e-billing promoted across Group continues to review its strategic our regions.
Cable & Wireless Communications is a member of World Business Council for Sustainable Development the FTSE4Good index.
Our priorities 01 02 03 04 Contribute Respect cultures, Nurture best Seek continuous positively to the values and human practice in our improvement in social and economic rights throughout activities our environmental development of our operations performance the communities in which we operate Cable & Wireless Communications 27
