s ustained c ommitment to o ur corporate r esponsibility.
Telecoms Sans Frontiers environment and Emergency communication reliefinaction 2011. sustainability targets acHieved: iso 14001 For UK by 2011 72% waste recycled Against a target of 54%.
Increased to 79% target for2011 12 2.4% Hcfc and Hfc losses Control the amount of HCFC and HFC refrigerant losttothe atmosphere to no more than 4% of the totalheld in Cable&Wireless Worldwide estate e-learn courses Delivered a worldwide colleague awareness engagement campaign in 2010 including mandatory e-learn courses on target: 27.5% less water Reduce water consumption by 27.5% on office andnon-office estate by 2020 reduce carbon emissions by 6% In the UK in 2011 12 and 2012 13 26 Cable&Wireless Worldwide is committed Sustainability through partnerships We have engaged key suppliers in our Sustainable tomaintaining asustainable business Acting on sustainability means continuous Procurement Programme.
improvements: resulting in the need for new processes, applications, capabilities and communication.
This will Our supplier assessment is based on an audit require new Information Communication Technologies programme and enables us to assess and monitor and integrated solutions, all of which create new supplier performance against: opportunities for Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
Business continuity planning Health & safety standards Environment and sustainability Environment standards Our environmental impact is well understood and our Security standards environmental management system has been certified Business ethics with the ISO 14001 international standard.
The programme includes risk assessments to help us As a new plc, we have agreed a suite of energy, assign a risk level and create action plans to mitigate emissions and water targets.
Waste targets have been raised Energy cost and carbon management are Partnerships strategicprogrammes We have signed the Cancun Communiqu and the Carbon audits in place to ensure effective Copenhagen Communiqu.
We are a member of the reduction programmes UNEP and the May Day Network.
We are also registered on the FTSE4Good Index.
Carbon Our Carbon Footprint in the UK was 238,657 tonnes Improving communities ofCO2ecompared with 239,679 tonnes of CO2e for We have an opportunity to positively impact the thelastfinancial year.
This figure, calculated using the communities in which we operate.
Our current Greenhouse Gas Methodology, has been externally community programmes are split into International, verified for the fifth consecutive year by the Edinburgh National and Local.
International 1 Energy consumption in the UK We have been a strategic charitable partner of Telecom Sans Frontiers for nine years.
2010 11 saw 2010 11 2009 10 this partnership support multiple relief efforts across 2 Electricity kWh 375,932,198 403,681,907 the world.
3 Natural gas kWh 15,473,295 17,294,554 National local We have multiple community initiatives aligned 1 We also measure fuel and heating oils consumption with a 2010 11 specifically to national and local initiatives.
This consumption accounts for a negligible amount of our emissions at this time.
We continue to reduce the environmental enables the opportunity to engage local colleagues impact associated with the use of these fuels to improve where we can.
2 Used to power our network, to provide support services such as network cooling, and in our offices.
Figures are for UK only, Cable&Wireless Worldwide has agreed a target to National community initiatives improve environmental KPI reporting for the Worldwide business outside of the UK to enable target setting on key impacts by April 2012.
Region location Beneficiary A number of initiatives during the year have yielded results: UK power smoothing, air-conditioning compressor work, room Various Children in Need set temperature changes, network decommissioning, Leeds St. Gemmas Hospice server virtualisation, hot cold containment as well as Norwich New Zealand Earthquake Relief combined heat and power investigations.
London Clic Sergeant Swindon Chernobyl Children in Need Product and services We expect organisations not only to increasingly look We also support organisations such as Race online for solutions that help them reduce costs, but also the 2012 and Get Safe online.
THUS, a Cable&Wireless environmental impacts associated with excessive travel Worldwide business, is a member of the Internet and inefficient infrastructure.
As a result, we arehelping Watch Foundation.
our customers drive more sustainable solutionswith: Asia Managed Video Conferencing India Christel House Mobile working solutions to increase flexible working Singapore Singapore Childrens society Fixed mobile convergence capability Japanese Red Cross Flexible computing services capability US We are developing a range of Smart Metering, SmartGrid, New York Wesley Housing Development eHealth and teleMedicine solutions to improve energy and Virginia Corporations Adopt-a-Family usage, provide better energy management and improved Program patient care, by creating easier access to treatment and condition management remotely.
Our 2010 11 demerger has given us an opportunity to Cable&Wireless Worldwide is also actively working review our Corporate Responsibility strategy.
We have toimprove connectivity in rural communities to placed significant focus on our community agenda and reduceemissions, enable regeneration and improve plan to launch our new strategy in 2011 12. sustainable living as part of Broadband Delivery UK andother regional initiatives using radio and other non-intrusive technologies.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 27
