S USTAINED C OMMITMENT TO O UR CORpORATE R ESpONSIBILITy.
Telecoms Sans Frontiers Emergency communication ENVIRONMENT reliefinaction 2011.
AND SUSTAINABILITy TARGETS AChIEVED: ISO 14001 For UK by 2011 72% WASTE RECyCLED Against a target of 54%.
Increased to 79% target for2011 12 2.4% hCfC AND hfC LOSSES Control the amount of HCFC and HFC refrigerant losttothe atmosphere to no more than 4% of the totalheld in Cable&Wireless Worldwide estate E-LEARN COURSES Delivered a Worldwide colleague awareness engagement campaign in 2010 including mandatory e-learn courses ON TARGET: 27.5% LESS WATER Reduce water consumption by 27.5% on office andnon-office estate by 2020 REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS By6% In the UK in 2011 12 and 2012 13 16 Cable&Wireless Worldwide is committed Product and services tomaintaining asustainable business We expect organisations not only to increasingly Acting on sustainability means continuous look for solutions that help them reduce costs, improvements: resulting in the need for new but also the environmental impacts associated processes, applications, capabilities and with excessive travel and inefficient communication.
This will require new Information infrastructure.
As a result, we arehelping our Communication Technologies and integrated customers drive more sustainable solutionswith: solutions, all of which create new opportunities Managed Video Conferencing for Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
Mobile working solutions to increase flexible Environment and sustainability working Our environmental impact is well understood Fixed mobile convergence capability and our environmental management system Flexible computing services capability hasbeen certified with the ISO 14001 We are developing a range of Smart Metering, international standard.
SmartGrid, eHealth and teleMedicine solutions As a new plc, we have agreed a suite of energy, toimprove energy usage, provide better energy emissions and water targets.
management and improved patient care, by creating easier assess to treatment and Waste targets have been raised condition management remotely.
Energy cost and carbon management are strategic programmes Cable&Wireless Worldwide is also actively Carbon audits in place to ensure effective working toimprove connectivity in rural reduction programmes communities to reduceemissions, enable regeneration and improve sustainable living Carbon aspart of Broadband Delivery UK andother Our Carbon Footprint in the UK was 238,657 regional initiatives using radio and other tonnes ofCO2ecompared with 239,679 tonnes non-intrusive technologies.
This figure, calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Sustainability through partnerships Methodology, has been externally verified for We have engaged key suppliers in our thefifth consecutive year by the Edinburgh Sustainable Procurement Programme.
Our supplier assessment is based on an audit programme and enables us to assess and 1 Energy consumption in the UK monitor supplier performance against: 2010 11 2009 10 Business continuity planning 2 Electricity kWh 375,932,198 403,681,907 Health and safety standards 3 Environment standards Natural gas kWh 15,473,295 17,294,554 Security standards Business ethics 1 We also measure fuel and heating oils consumption with a 2010 11 baseline.
This consumption accounts The programme includes risk assessments to fora negligible amount of our emissions at this time.
help us assign a risk level and create action plans Wecontinue to reduce the environmental impact associated with the use of these fuels to improve to mitigate and manage them accordingly.
Partnerships 2 Used to power our network, to provide support services such as network cooling, and in our offices.
We have signed the Cancun Communiqu 3 Used to heat our offices.
We are a Figures are for UK only, Cable&Wireless Worldwide has member of the UNEP and the May Day Network.
agreed a target to improve environmental KPI reporting for We are also registered on the FTSE4Good Index.
the Worldwide business outside of the UK to enable target setting on key impacts by April 2012.
Improving communities We have an opportunity to positively impact the A number of initiatives during the year have yielded communities in which we operate.
Our current results: power smoothing, air conditioning community programmes are split into compressor work, room set temperature International, National and Local.
changes, network decommissioning, server International virtualisation, hot cold containment as well as We have been a strategic charitable partner of combined heat and power investigations.
Telecom Sans Frontiers for nine years.
2010 11 saw this partnership support multiple relief efforts across the world.
National Local We have multiple community initiatives aligned specifically to national and local initiatives.
Thisenables the opportunity to engage localcolleagues.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Review 17
