Discover Cairn Sustainability and Safety E V E R y T HIN g wE DO IS g UIDE D by THE 3Rs Respect, Responsibility and Relationships these values inform our day-to-day business activities and are promoted to staff, partners and contractors.
Economic and Skills Development Initiatives Building Sustainable Futures hh The Enterprise Centre promotes and Not only has Cairn delivered value for India and supports local economic development in for shareholders, it has also worked with local Rajasthan.
More than 6,000 people have communities to improve infrastructure, health, been trained to date with 80% finding education and economic prospects.
with its JV partners, Cairn has invested in hh The Rural Dairy Development Programme projects that have focused on developing developed a marketplace for farmers to sustainable social capital and stimulating local sell their surplus milk, thus turning it into economies in communities near our assets.
More than Supporting local communities is one of the ways $800,000 in revenue has been generated in which Cairn helps to ensure that a positive to date through milk sales.
uu impact results from our presence in a country or region.
Specifically, in Rajasthan, Cairn has developed the following: 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 15 Discover Cairn Sustainability and Safety Continued Health Initiatives Environmental Initiatives hh The Mobile Health Van provides diagnostic hh Access to fresh water.
Cairn supported and preventative healthcare to remote the construction of more than 1,300 communities in the Barmer region of rainwater harvesting structures, providing Rajasthan.
More than 100,000 people a storage capacity of over 10 million litres.
have been treated to date.
hh Infrastructure Capacity provided local hh The Child and Maternal Healthcare authorities with extensive well database Programme for 25,000 vulnerable villagers for mapping fresh water aquifers.
in Andhra Pradesh has been instrumental in achieving reduced maternal and child mortality rates in five villages in the area.
16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Cairns approach elsewhere follows that Prevention is also a key focus A Track Record for Safety which we have pursued in South Asia.
Through across all of Cairns operations.
Our drilling Cairn has consistently demonstrated our Social Impact Assessments SIAs and a programmes are designed with the aim ability to develop and manage complex consultation process, Cairn learnt that increasing of reducing all the associated risks as much exploration, drilling, construction and production Greenlandic participation in oil and gas activities as reasonably practical.
operations while also safeguarding people and was important to local people.
We also identified The team responsible for the exploration the environment.
Wherever possible, Cairn that the development of skills, employment, campaign in Greenland has more than 1,000 aims to avoid, mitigate, or at the very least enterprise and infrastructure associated with the years of combined experience of operating manage, any impacts our operations may have.
In 2010 and 2011 in challenging environments.
To complement Cairn has successfully used Environmental Cairn worked with the Greenlandic Government this in-house expertise, Cairn also partnered Impact Assessments EIAs to consider the to put in place Impact Benefit Agreements with companies who are leaders in their fields.
potential impacts of its activities on the IBAs that addressed each of these issues.
In Greenland, Cairn has worked with a top environment.
Should Cairn go on to discover a significant ice management company and a leading Based on the EIAs conducted in advance amount of hydrocarbons, the Company would organisation in global oil spill response.
of its drilling operations in Greenland, Cairn then look to support local projects on a more Cairn has now completed four years of reduced its impact on the marine environment permanent basis through a number of relevant, operations offshore Greenland without fatality, by using rigs that did not require anchoring to targeted and sustainable initiatives.
serious injuries or environmental incident.
the seabed, while helicopter travel was also re-routed so minimising disturbance to coastal seabird colonies.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 17
