Business Review Cairn has a longstanding commitment to identifying, understanding and responding to sustainability issues: Corporate and supports this process through active engagement Responsibility with stakeholders.
Overview 2011 CR Overview Cairn always aims to manage the potential h Permission to drill a further five wells 0 health and safety, environmental and social offshore Greenland after three in Number of lost time injuries on drilling rigs during 2011 Greenland drilling project impacts of our activities in a clear and 2010.
The application was supported transparent way.
Corporate Responsibility CR by detailed environmental and social is important to Cairn because it contributes impact assessments ESIAs during which 0.18 significantly to the sustainability of our business 40 stakeholder groups were consulted over Cairn Indias 2011 lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, and how we maintain our licence to operate.
The results lower than industry average of the ESIAs were presented through Our approach to CR and 2011 performance is a public hearing process including four described below.
More detailed information and public meetings.
$800,000 performance data is available as a downloadable h A second IBA was signed in 2011 providing Revenue raised from dairy development programme pdf from our website www.
com employment and business participation in in Rajasthan CRR2011.
The independent sustainability Cairns activities: development of education consultant and assurance firm Environmental initiatives towards skills required by the oil Resources Management ERM has provided and gas industry and support for cultural $575,000 limited assurance on selected information activities and the development of young Funds to be distributed to education and cultural within the 2011 CR Report and delivered their people though sport in Greenland.
Awards programmes in Greenland work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance totaling $0.575 million are to be distributed Standard AA1000 AS 2008.
of their assurance work can be viewed in h Community development projects in the 2011 CR report.
Rajasthan run by CIL in 2011 included the Enterprise Centre which trained more than 6,000 youths, 80% of whom have already found employment: the dairy development programme which has generated revenue of more than $800,000 for farmers: and mobile health vans that have provided diagnostic and preventative healthcare to more than 100,000 people in remote communities in the Barmer and Bhogat regions of Rajasthan and Gujarat.
44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information W E S E E K T O C O N T I N E U L A P L I L C Y N I I M R P P R G O h Regrettably there was one fatality of a These values inform our day-to-day business Our Responsible Approach contractor working in CIL as a result of a activities and are promoted to staff, partners At Cairn, our approach to CR involves carefully motor vehicle accident.
This tragic accident and contractors.
We set annual performance managing the interaction between economic was fully investigated and corrective steps objectives and targets, and measure and growth, the environment and the communities taken to minimise the likelihood of a similar report our performance against them.
This is guided by the accident happening again.
CRMS is aligned with the ISO 26000 Guidelines expectations of our shareholders and h CILs LTIFR reduced by 57% to 0.18 per for Social Responsibility and ensures that our other stakeholders regarding our financial million years 2010: 0.40.
Cairns excluding objectives are consistently delivered.
performance, as well as risk management and Cairn India LTIFR was 3.67 2010: 0.6. relevant environmental and societal issues.
This was due to seven lost time incidents Full details of our approach to CR can be found occurring on support services during our in the 2011 CR report.
We seek to create value and provide an essential exploration activities offshore Greenland.
source of energy while improving the lives h There were no lost time injuries on the 2011 Performance of the societies where we work by integrating drilling rigs and the Leiv Eiriksson achieved As part of our commitment to continual economic prosperity, social development and two years of lost time injury free operations improvement, CR objectives and KPIs are environmental protection.
during the drilling operations in Greenland.
set annually and progress against these is h Cairns CR Policies, Business Principles measured and reported.
Improving our CR management means reducing and CRMS were reviewed and updated, potential negative impacts while generating along with the anti-bribery and corruption Group KPIs and sustaining value.
Cairns Business Principles procedures to reflect legislation, such as Cairn assesses business performance and outline our fundamental values and approach the UK Bribery Act 2010 which came into measures progress towards its corporate goals to managing the business in line with the effect in July 2011. by using KPIs.
Selected KPIs are high graded Companys policies.
They identify the h The Stakeholder Management and to monitor business progress and contribute international standards we aspire to meet: set Human Rights Guidelines were updated to the annual cash bonus scheme.
out goals for our behaviour, and govern our work to incorporate new guidance from the as well as relationships with contractors and IFC and UNs Protect, Respect, Remedy The Companys overall performance in 2011 other business partners.
Framework on Business and Human was reported using a weighting system, which Rights.
balances corporate strategic goals, CIL and These Business Principles are based on h External reviews were undertaken Cairn excluding Cairn India KPIs, and individual our three core values, the 3Rs: of Cairns approach to climate change, performance.
h Respect: for people, communities, including the potential impact of the the environment, the rule of law and outcome of the Durban Conference Our annual performance relating to targeted, human rights: in December 2011. organisational-level CR KPIs is summarised h Relationships: we believe that building h More than 52,800 hours of training and on page 53. strong, open and lasting relationships with development were delivered across our stakeholders is not merely a social the Group.
responsibility but is vital to achieving our business goals: and h Responsibility: we recognise our responsibility to ensure our actions do not harm people, the environment or society.
Behaving Behaving Responsibly Responsibly to People Towards the Environment We develop the We avoid, wherever potential of our people possible, negative impacts on the environment and biodiversity We foster a We will prevent, workplace that or where that is not respects personal practicable, minimise Core dignity, is nonemissions to air, Principle discriminatory and water and land provides fair rewards We behave honestly, fairly and We provide a healthy, We will operate to with integrity safe and secure minimise our carbon working environment and water footprint Behaving Responsibly to Society We seek to make a positive social impact in every area in which we work We respect the rights and acknowledge the aspirations and concerns of the communities in which we work Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 45 N V I E H C O R U A R R B E U V S O I N E S S P E R F O R M A N C E Business Review Our 2012 CR objectives focus on strengthening Materiality our HSE management, leadership and culture: We regularly conduct materiality assessments Corporate and improving our recruitment and induction to determine the CR issues of most relevance to processes.
In addition, they include a renewed our business and stakeholders.
The materiality Responsibility emphasis on security, as well as developing process involves input from internal and external and implementing Public Consultation and stakeholders relating to the key economic, Continued Disclosure Plans PCDPs for existing and environmental and social issues that arise in our new assets.
activities: and supports our strategic approach to CR.
2012 Objectives Approach to Managing HSE At the end of 2011, our senior managers held a h Complete roll out and training in use materiality workshop, led by a third party, which of updated CRMS and implement on highlighted and ranked the most significant new projects.
issues for both stakeholders and the Company, h Review Business Principles and CR as follows: Policies in light of changing stakeholder h Arctic operations expectations.
h Major accidents h Finalise and implement ongoing process h Business ethics for CR Management review.
h Occupational health and safety h Strengthen HSE leadership and culture h Local communities in the company.
h Emissions and waste h Operational integrity Behaving Responsibly in h Supply chain all our Business Relationships h Governance and transparency h Complete review of anti bribery and h Biodiversity corruption procedures in early 2012.
Update, roll out and provide further Management of these CR priorities is guided by training as appropriate.
our business practices, principles and policies.
h Adopt AA1000 Assurance Standard AA1000 AS 2008, for 2011 CR report.
Further details are provided in the 2011 CR report.
h Update CR Contractor Management Procedure and Guidance.
Our Objectives h Incorporate updated CR Contractor Our 2012 CR Objectives are based on the Management Procedure and Guidance into combined outcome of the 2011 materiality the Companys Project Delivery Process.
process, our CR Road Maps, evaluations of lessons learnt from 2011, potential CR issues arising in 2012 and a review of changes to key external international standards.
46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Behaving Responsibly Comprehensive stakeholder engagement We have revised in 2011 the Stakeholder Towards our People strategies enable us to manage a wide range Engagement Guidance, used by all country, h Strengthen Cairns recruitment of interests and expectations successfully, asset and project managers to shape their and induction processes.
guided by the CR Policy, CRMS and own engagement strategies.
h Continue with measures aimed at Stakeholder Engagement Guidance.
Every project starts with a PCDP, which includes h Review and update Edinburgh Office Cairn engages with a wide range of stakeholders.
These cover security systems and procedures.
In 2011, we engaged with communities, those stakeholders affected by the Companys h Enhance the travel security risk governments, NGOs, shareholders, suppliers, activities and others who influence or have management process.
Cairn an interest in our operations at an asset or respects the rights of individuals and company level.
Behaving Responsibly organisations to express their views in a safe Towards Society and Communities and peaceful manner, but is concerned with All PCDPs follow a Group Public Consultation h Roll out new Human Rights Guidelines any action that represents a breach of security and Disclosure Plan Framework that is aligned and provide training in applying procedure and that may pose a risk to the safety of people with International Finance Corporation IFC for assessing and managing human rights and or equipment.
Such incidents occurred in guidance.
Clear stakeholder grievance in our business.
2011 with the actions of the NGO Greenpeace procedures form an essential part of each PCDP.
h Develop and implement PCDPs for existing both offshore Greenland and at Cairns and new assets in 2012.
Edinburgh office and legal remedies In 2011, we updated the PCDP for our activities were taken.
in Greenland using the experience gained Behaving Responsibly during operations in 2010.
Another PCDP Towards the Environment The Company-wide CRMS sets out guidelines was completed to anticipate potential future h Incorporate detailed guidance for climate for determining significant stakeholders both activities offshore Spain.
change management into current at the Corporate level and for individual procedures: align with Project Delivery projects.
The Corporate stakeholder matrix Process and integrate within the CRMS.
is reviewed and updated regularly by the h Issue biodiversity guidance.
Project Delivery Process and integrate within the CRMS.
Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is essential to delivery of our CR strategy and is embedded Identify Engage Implement Monitor and assess with stakeholders engagement and review in our Business Principles and our core values.
stakeholder and develop plans Through ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, objectives engagement we demonstrate responsible business plans behaviour while achieving our business goals.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 47 Business Review Governance Financial Sustainability Overall responsibility for defining the Group CR Cairn employs an annual process for strategic Corporate Policies and Business Principles rests with the and business planning, which defines our Board.
The Board consists of the Chairman, the mission and objectives while prioritising the Responsibility Chief Executive, two Executive Directors and actions needed to accomplish them.
The five independent Non-Executive Directors.
business plan uses a five year planning horizon Continued and is accompanied by a financial plan that The Board oversees the implementation of sets out our projected expenditure and income effective CR management systems to manage under multiple scenarios.
This is used to assess any CR risks effectively.
Jann Brown Managing whether sufficient resources are available in the Director and Chief Financial Officer CFO short to medium term to meet our strategic provides assurance to the Board on HSE objectives.
including climate change, community, human rights, employee and security issues.
Progress against the business and financial plans is monitored throughout the year.
Both In 2011, Cairn established two new non-Board plans are updated regularly, usually every committees: three months.
h The Management Team MT, which delivers the Companys strategic objectives In 2011, we completed the sale of a 40% stake and ensures an effective risk management in CIL to Vedanta.
This allowed Cairn to return system is implemented.
$3.5 billion to shareholders and, we believe, h The Corporate Team CT, which focuses retain financial resources sufficient to meet on external communications, CR, investor our short and medium term objectives.
relations strategy, security and internal control and assurance.
Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on page 69 Further information relating to Corporate of this report, outlines how we meet all relevant Governance is available on page 59. requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and consistently apply the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
The Report also describes Cairns policy on executive directors remuneration and the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Climate change is a complex issue and the In 2011 our environmental performance Environment relative contributions of human activities and is summarised as follows: We recognise that our exploration and natural causes to global warming are still h The intensity of GHG emissions from the production activities have an impact on the debated.
However, there is a broad international production operations in CIL was lower environment, so we aim, wherever possible, consensus that efforts should be made to limit compared to 2010 2011: 84.5 tonnes CO E to avoid, mitigate or manage any adverse 2 global temperature rise to less than 2C, which per million tones of hydrocarbon produced, impacts arising from our operations.
will involve fundamental changes in the way 2010: 90.6 tonnes CO E per million tonnes 2 society sources and uses energy.
In 2011 we completed EIAs and an SIA for h Following the sale of assets in Bangladesh the drilling programme and approval was Cairns Climate Change strategy, described at the end of 2010, Cairn excluding CIL given for the 2011 drilling programme offshore in our Business Principles, consists of four had no production operations in 2011, Greenland.
EIAs and Preliminary Environmental elements: hence the GHG intensity from producing Impact Assessments PEIAs were also carried h Greenhouse Gas GHG measurement, fields was zero.
out for seismic surveys and site surveys.
verification and reporting: h Three spills to the environment were h maintaining energy and emissions recorded in our Greenland operations We manage our environmental impacts by: efficiency: totaling ten litres of diesel oil and h understanding environmental impacts and h demonstrating informed and transparent approximately nine barrels of hydraulic oil.
managing potential biodiversity risks across action on climate change: and h Five spills were recorded by CIL from its our activities: h contributing to programmes that address production, pipeline and drilling operations h complying with all applicable legal, the environmental and social impacts of totaling 100 barrels of oil and 63 barrels of regulatory and licence requirements: climate change.
The spills were fully h designing our wells and facilities to a high investigated and all of the spills sites were standard and putting strong emphasis on cleaned up.
preventing risks from occurring: h avoiding and minimising our air emissions, Read more on our environmental performance effluents and wastes, energy use and water in 2011 at www.
consumption: h developing and regularly reviewing robust oil spill contingency plans for our production and drilling activities: and h monitoring and reviewing our performance and any incidents and implementing improvements.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 49 Business Review We achieved Investors in People reaccreditation People in 2010.
This award recognises our commitment In total, Cairn and CIL employed 1,320 staff Corporate to developing our employees skills, which in in six different countries in 2011 and their turn advances our business goals.
As a responsible Responsibility employer, we seek to provide a safe and We are committed to eliminating all workhealthy workplace and an environment in Continued related injuries and illnesses and protecting which our employees are motivated and able our employees and contractors through a to develop their full potential.
comprehensive and proactive approach to health and safety.
Cairn promotes a supportive culture that values diversity and equality and offers our staff every However, despite these efforts, 2011 saw opportunity to progress their careers.
We are a fatality in CIL of one of our contractors in a committed to safeguarding our peoples health, motor vehicle accident.
This tragic accident was safety and security, while keeping them fully investigated and corrective steps taken to informed and engaged in company activities.
minimise the likelihood of a similar accident happening again.
We work hard to maintain positive employee relations at all levels of the Company.
In 2011 Within Cairns excluding CIL operations we rewarded staff with a competitive benefits we had seven lost time injuries in our 2011 package including childcare vouchers, a share exploration activities in Greenland.
Five of these incentive plan and a new gym allowance.
We were on seismic and support vessels and two continued to offer training and development were in the supply base.
Lessons learned from opportunities to enhance the skills of these incidents and our 2011 operations have employees, and across the Group, delivered been recorded and are being addressed in the over 52,800 hours of training.
For more information relating to our performance in this area, visit www.
50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We conduct a risk-based due diligence process Consultations are informed both by Group Supply Chain on contractors regarding their anti-corruption and project-specific PCDPs, which outline The nature of oil and gas exploration and and bribery process and in 2011, our zero engagement programmes and measures production means that Cairn outsources many tolerance approach towards bribery and for recording grievances as well as of its activities to contractors, suppliers, vendors corruption included requesting all contractors providing feedback.
and other stakeholders, collectively referred to to provide copies of their own anti-corruption as contractors, who make up the supply chain.
We conduct SIAs and social baseline studies As a result, we place a very high priority on to assess potential social impacts associated selecting and managing our relationships with For further details of our performance in this with a specific project: respect and protect the contractors.
We use local contractors where area, please see www.
com human rights of local communities: and develop practical, working with them to ensure that they CRR2011.
mutually beneficial relationships with all our understand our standards and comply with stakeholders.
our Group CR Policies, Business Principles Communities and Code of Business Ethics before being We are committed to maximising the many Community development projects in Rajasthan awarded contracts.
benefits that our work can bring to local run by CIL in 2011 included the Enterprise communities.
These can be economic, in terms Centre which trained more than 6,000 youths, Our Business Principles apply to all stages of creating new jobs or engaging with local 80% of whom have already found employment: of our supply chain and we aim to behave suppliers, both of which boost the local economy, the dairy development programme which has honestly, fairly and with integrity at all times.
or they can be societal, such as developing new generated revenue of more than $800,000 for Our operations are subject to risk assessments infrastructure and community facilities.
farmers: and mobile health vans that have to ensure adherence to international and local provided diagnostic and preventative healthcare laws and standards, and to avoid complicity Before setting up community initiatives, to more than 100,000 people in remote in any wrongful behaviour.
We work to ensure we carry out detailed consultations with communities in the Barmer and Bhogat regions fair and transparent tendering of supplies and local and national authorities, NGOs and other of Rajasthan and Gujarat.
services and contractors may be subject to organisations.
This ensures that we provide specific audits of their capabilities, equipment focused social investment and community and CR performance.
development programmes that have a real impact.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 51 Business Review In 2011, we completed a second dedicated Over the last eight years, our operations in SIA for our drilling activities offshore Greenland Rajasthan, India, have increased local employment Corporate and signed a second IBA with the national and opportunities and improved access to healthcare municipal authorities, covering areas affected for local people.
Responsibility by our operations in Greenland.
More information regarding our performance Continued Following the success of the 2010 IBA, our in this area is available at www.
second IBA set out commitments in five areas: com CRR2011.
h Employment Practices including targets for increasing Greenlandic involvement in Operational Integrity Cairns project workforce.
For Cairn, operational integrity is a core practice h Human Resources Development including and represents the highest standards guiding funding projects to increase Greenlanderss our actions and operations, as well as our access to education so they can gain the interactions with employees, contractors, expertise required to participate in the oil communities, local authorities and other and gas industry stakeholders.
h Business Development including actions to promote opportunities for local Maintaining the integrity of our operations is companies in the Greenlandic oil and gas fundamental to the prevention and mitigation industry: and to promote mentorship and of potential major accidents.
joint ventures between local and international businesses.
Our CRMS identifies the potential risks and h Social well-being including measures impacts of a proposed activity and aims to to prevent strain on local services such prevent these by adopting appropriate measures.
Together with our Risk Management System, h Cultural well-being including funding local this plays a vital role in assessing and managing community development initiatives.
We work to reduce the risks and impacts of a proposed Under the 2011 IBA, a total of $0.575 million programme in line with the As Low as will be distributed to a total of 21 projects.
In the unlikely event of an incident occurring, we have established emergency response procedures in place to manage this effectively.
52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 All major projects, such as drilling programmes, h Held a winterisation workshop again GRI Index are managed through the Project Delivery facilitated by DNV to assure that the rigs Cairns 2011 CR report is delivered in line with Process so that risks are re-evaluated at selected for the programme could operate AA1000 assurance standard AA1000 AS-2008 different stages, from concept through to in cold and extreme climatic conditions and is aligned with the Global Reporting execution and close-out.
Initiative GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Further details are provided at Protecting the integrity of our assets means The drilling programme risk assessments and www.
com CRR2011 designing our facilities to ensure they work mitigations were subject to an external peer effectively throughout a project, while protecting review: and a certified UK well examiner the health and safety of our staff and reviewed and verified the well designs and safeguarding the environment.
This ensures that programmes before and during the drilling valuable time is not lost during routine operations operations.
and also plays a significant part in preventing major accidents.
In light of the sale of our controlling stake in CIL in December 2011 retaining a 22% Cairns Risk Management System plays a crucial interest, the fundamental nature of our role in maintaining asset integrity throughout the business is changing.
In response, we have design operation of our activities.
implemented a due diligence process to shape any new investment proposals.
CR issues are During 2011 drilling operations in Greenland, covered within the process and this mirrors we undertook several risk-prevention the topic areas of our Standard Operating measures: Procedures and assists in assessing risks and h Conducted a major accident hazard MAH outstanding issues relating to health, safety, workshop facilitated by independent environment and security.
specialist Det Norske Veritas DNV, during planning and well in advance of starting Read more about our approach to Operational operations: Integrity at www.
h Carried out HAZID and control studies and a Drill the Well on Paper DWOP workshop to ensure thorough project planning: and Greenhouse Gas Intensity Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR Tonnes of CO E per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon production Number per million hours Number per million hours 2 N A 3.67 7.34 84.5 0.18 0.88 66.4 0.60 1.81 90.6 0.40 1.55 158.0 0.42 1.68 13.1 0.64 0.64 58.7 0.26 0.64 163.0 0.45 1.75 23.1 0.00 0.00 40.8 0.27 0.73 162.0 0.55 2.08 23.0 0.36 0.71 37.7 0.39 1.64 162.0 0.66 2.68 14.0 0.76 1.50 48.4 0.6 2.75 163.0 0.99 2.9 Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn India Cairn India Cairn India OGP benchmark OGP benchmark OGP benchmark OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011 OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 53
