RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Our approach to responsible business In 2010 we decided to pull together the various strands of our work in the field of responsible business to create a consistent approach across the Old Mutual Group.
We reported on our work last year.
During 2011, we have made positive strides in developing internal networks to share experience, collaborate on finding solutions to key issues and collect the comparable data needed to demonstrate progress.
Focusing our approach inthese areas has already contributed towards our vision ofbecoming our customers most trusted partner.
We have continued to engage with stakeholders to help refine our approach.
Our Responsible Business Strategy balances the expectations of our stakeholders while addressing key business issues.
Stakeholders with whom We pursue commercial we have worked include our customers, employees, success in ways that suppliers, shareholders, community organisations, Governments and regulators.
uphold ethical values and However, we recognise that we need to do more to align respect society and the our responsible business strategy to our overall business priorities, and that we will progress further by prioritising natural environment.
ourkey issues and improving the quality of management Don Schneider information used to track performance.
Group Human Resources Director Therefore, during 2012, we will prioritise the integration ofresponsible investment into our businesses, provide Group-wide principles for community and social investments and drive performance to meet our 2020 carbon-reduction targets.
We will continue to invest time and resources across all parts of the Group to develop our responsible business approach, and support our businesses in tailoring their activity to meet local market needs.
Our Responsible Business Committee continued to provide direction and to be accountable for our approach to responsible business practice, with Don Schneider, Group Human Resources Director, reporting issues directly to the Group Executive Committee.
The key issues we address through our Responsible Business Strategy are: Q Responsible investment Q Responsible customer service Q Responsible to our employees Q Responsible to our communities Q Responsible environmental management 86 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statement Shareholder information Responsible investment: A long-term Responsible to our employees: valueapproach Building a culture of excellence We spent time in 2011 establishing the right governance During 2011, we asked our employees for their views on the framework for responsible decision-making in our owned current culture at Old Mutual, and are now working through and managed investments.
We are seeking to build a a programme to build a high performance culture which has consistent approach to integrating environmental, social the customer at the heart of what we do.
and good governance criteria into investment decisions, using experience gained across the Group.
This includes We also launched a Group-wide initiative to increase the number of women in senior positions.
Women currently the work of Nedbank as an Equator Principles signatory and Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa as a hold 13% of senior management jobs within the Group, with the figure rising to 40% in Mutual & Federals sponsor and signatory to the Code for Responsible Investment South Africa CRISA.
Much of our strength comes from the fact that, as a We also addressed key issues in the emerging markets where our businesses operate by investing in housing, globalbusiness, we have employees from many different backgrounds, cultures and professions.
We are committed agriculture and education funds.
to increase and leverage diversity as well as encouraging We conducted our second bribery risk assessment across mobility across the Group.
the Group and updated our Code of Conduct to take into account changes in UK anti-bribery legislation.
Nedbank Responsible to our communities: Investing in the future and Old Mutual South Africa successfully implemented new monitoring systems to identify and prevent internal fraud as We have a proud history of social engagement, with a part of our drive to reduce financial crime.
focus on supporting the long-term growth and stability of communities.
Through our five Old Mutual Foundations, Responsible customer service: Building trust and directly through our businesses, we donated a total In our drive to become our customers most trusted of11.6 million to social projects last year.
Employee partner, we have been implementing a Group-wide volunteering helped to maximise the value of the donations, customer loyalty metric the Net Promoter Score.
By which were particularly aimed at supporting financial measuring how likely our customers are to recommend capability, and enterprise and skills development.
OldMutual as a financial services provider to their friends We also run programmes that address specific local and family, we can see how and where we need to community and market needs.
For example, in 2011, the improveour services and products.
Old Mutual Foundation in South Africa increased the All new products in 2011 were thoroughly assessed to number of small black-owned businesses and community make sure that all aspects of sales, compliance, profitability projects it supports through its Legends Programme and appropriateness to customer need were considered.
Anew formal sign-off process also ensures suitable risk management for our customers and shareholders, and there has been considerable focus on addressing our approach to responsible marketing and selling so that we are transparent about what we do and how we do it.
11.6m Our Long-Term Savings division is taking proactive steps Invested in local communities toimprove its engagement with customers as part of its customer-centric vision.
Our commitment to the transformation of South African society continues, with Old Mutual South Africa and We are building a consistent Nedbank maintaining their Level 2 status as Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment contributors.
Mutual & approach to integrating Federal retained its Level 3 status.
environmental, social and good governance criteria into investment decisions.
Old Mutual plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Responsible environmental management: The future An essential role Over the next year, we will work to ensure our Responsible As an international business, we have a responsibility to Business Strategy is completely aligned to our business contribute to wider global issues such as mitigating climate priorities and vision, with clear targets for the rest of the change, responding to macro changes in populations and decade.
We will work with our employees and others to using scarce resources responsibly.
highlight their roles in delivering our objectives and empower them to make their own personal contribution to We report each year to the UN Global Compact showing the achievement of those objectives.
our progress in addressing universal issues, which cover human and labour rights, environmental protection and Particular focus will be placed on better demonstrating the anti-corruption.
This year we hosted a debate in London positive impact we have with communities, progressing onthe role of companies operating in conflict zones.
Our ourresponsible investment work and addressing our key businesses took part in, and learnt from, the climate change environmental impacts.
discussions at COP17 in Durban and we appeared in the We will continue to report through the UN Global Compact, Leadership Index of the Carbon Disclosure Project, which Carbon Disclosure Project and our own communication we have reported against for over three years.
channels to demonstrate our achievements transparently, In 2010, we established our own climate-change strategy while also acknowledging, where applicable, the challenges with a target of reducing the Groups carbon emissions by we face.
And we will look to collaborate with others, so that 20% by 2020 from a 2010 baseline.
Over the past year, we can continue to learn and create even greater benefit.
ourCarbon Taskforces across the Group have begun to implement the strategy and our performance is shown in For more information on the highlights of 2011 and plans for 2012, please see our 2011 Responsible Business Report.
Old Mutuals carbon emissions Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per full-time employee from our -6% employee locations.
2011 2.33 2010 2.47 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 per m of Old Mutual property portfolios.
88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Gover Govern finance ance GOVERNANCE 90 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 94 GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 96 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS 109 REMUNERATION REPORT O Olld M d Mu utu tua all p pllc c 89 89 A An nnual nual Repor Report t and and A Accoun ccount ts s 2 20 01 11 1
