26 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy corporate responsibility At Provident, corporate responsibility CR means much more than ensuring that we lend to our customers in a responsible manner.
It is also about ensuring that we take account of, and manage, our wider environmental, economic and social impacts.
overview our mission anD values our cr strategy our six themes Our mission to be the leading nonOur mission is supported by two GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT standard lender in the UK and Ireland, headline CR key performance indicators: CUSTOMERS acting responsibly in all our relationships percentage of customers surveyed who and playing a positive role in the are satisfied with the service they have EMPLOyEES communities we serve underlines our been given.
This mission is the amount of money invested in supported by our values which state that COMMUNITIES support of community programmes and we will be fair, responsible, accessible, donated for charitable purposes.
key areas oF Focus our communities our customers Having a presence in almost every town and city in the UK and Our customers are one of our most important stakeholders.
By Ireland brings with it responsibility.
This is why we are committed understanding them, we can continue to develop and deliver credit to investing in the many communities we serve.
products that are responsible and tailored to meet their specific needs.
highlights oF the year Facts In April 2011, our Bradford-based head office attained The score we retained through our accreditation to the International Standard EN ISO 14001: 2004. involvement in BITCs CR index.
95.25% In the 2011 FTSE4Good Index Series, Provident achieved a maximum rating score of 100%.
The number of three-year projects we are supporting across the UK and Ireland through In June 2011, we retained our platinum performance rating 34 our Good Neighbour programme.
in the Business in the Community BITC CR index.
The amount of carbon dioxide in tonnes associated with our business travel activities 3,630 we offset during 2011. cr reporting cr governance A comprehensive account of our CR programme and its performance is Peter Crook, Chief Executive, has board responsibility for the groupprovided to stakeholders in our CR reports.
Our 2011 CR report will be wide CR programme.
He chairs the groups management committee published during the summer of 2012.
Further information on our CR which provides oversight of the programme.
Day-to-day management of reports can be found at www.
Providents CR activities is delegated to a number of working groups.
Full corporate responsibility report 2011 www.
com files reports 2011cr Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 27 While ensuring that We are a responsible lender is perhaps our most important corporate responsibility, We recognise that We have a duty to address the other cr issues that are relevant to our business Peter crook, Chief Executive our cuStoMErS First and foremost, ensuring that we are a responsible corporate citizen plays a central i get on really Well role in the way we treat our customers.
This starts with understanding our customers With my agent, Joyce.
so that we can develop and deliver products that are tailored to meet their needs.
By doing this we are able to provide our 2.5 million Whenever customers with small-sum products that are: my loan i straightforward and easy to understand: discuss i need to and ii affordable and offer high levels of personal contact.
i knoW Responsible lending is an important part of how we treat our customers.
It is built into our products and the way we deliver them.
shell Responsible lending decisions are made for our new and existing Home Credit customers listen and through a combination of weekly or monthly joyce, agent visits to customers homes and the use understand Home Credit of decision support tools.
Before Vanquis Bank agent accepts a customer, it runs a credit bureau check to determine whether to accept the application and to set the credit limit.
It also Fiona, Home Credit speaks with customers before making a customer final decision.
key numBers 20%, the percentage of new customer credit applications approved by our Home Credit business and Vanquis Bank.
91% and 84%, the percentage of customers who are satisfied with the service they have received from our Home Credit business and Vanquis Bank respectively.
customer insights The average Home Credit loan 500 The average Vanquis Bank credit limit 940 Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 28 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy corporate responsibility our gooD neighBour three-year projects 8.
Boomerang, Dundee 9. scholemoor Beacon, Bradford 2. scottish youth hostel association, Stirling 10. joshua project, Bradford 3. the venchie children and young peoples project, Edinburgh 11. holmewood executive, Bradford 4. the royal lyceum, Edinburgh 12. sedbergh youth and community centre, Bradford 5. made4u in ml2, Wishaw 13.
Bradford and District senior power, Bradford 6. stockton Borough council, Stockton-upon-Tees 14. northfield sports association, Bootle, Merseyside 7. sycamore project Zacs Bar, Bolton 15. sefton enterprises ltd, Sefton, Merseyside 16. yorkshire Dance, Rotherham 17. sycamore adventure, Dudley 18. new parks club for young people, Leicester 19. mowmacre young peoples play and Development association, Leicester 20. project for the renewal of Druids heath, Birmingham 21. shard end youth and community centre, Birmingham 22. the Door, Stroud 23. riverfront theatre, Newport, Wales 24.
Battersea arts centre, London 25. ahoy centre, Deptford, London 26. cen8, New Cross, London 1 27.
Baggator, Bristol 2 28. st petrocks, Exeter 3 4 29. reach across, Londonderry 5 30. hostelling international northern ireland, Belfast 31. solas after school project, Dublin 32. early Focus project, Dublin 29 33. an oige, Dublin 34. laois partnership, Portlaoise, County Laois 6 30 10 9 11 8 32 7 12 31 13 14 15 33 16 34 1819 17 20 21 22 24 23 25 27 26 28 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 29 key numBers the Door, strouD our coMMuNitiES The Door is a youth project located in Stroud 42,550, the number of people who have which offers mentoring and personal support benefited from the support provided by the The strategy behind our community to help young people build their confidence projects we have funded through our Good involvement activities comprises two strands: and address issues such as drug and alcohol Neighbour programme.
helping to address the social inclusion abuse.
A three-year project was initiated 34,642, the number of people who have needs of people who live in deprived between Provident and The Door in April 2010 accessed new services or activities as a communities: and which funds a Family Support Team Leader result of the support they have received supporting the money advice sector to and part-funds a Mentoring Team Leader.
address issues such as financial education project highlights 20,747, the number of people who developed and carrying out research into matters Delivery of a mentoring programme to help new skills as a result of their involvement which relate to our customers.
numerous families to identify and develop in the programmes supported by Good aDopting a DiFFerent approach coping strategies to enable parents to provide Neighbour.
to community involvement support to young people on a range of issues.
are we Being a gooD neighBour?
Our community involvement activities Empowering parents and young people A key part of our community involvement are delivered through our Good Neighbour to become healthier, more economically programme involves evaluating our work to programme.
The programme draws on the proficient and enabling them to improve understand and identify the community and knowledge that comes from having a presence their emotional resilience.
business benefits of the initiatives we support in almost every town in the UK.
Projects and ensuring that there is continual address issues such as crime prevention, improvement.
Here are some examples unemployment and low levels of educational of recent projects: attainment, and health and well-being.
The programme delivers activities in three ways: local community project support We feel that identifying and supporting projects which address issues that are relevant to the needs We are truly in a of the community: employee volunteering encouraging our partnership With employees to take part in volunteering initiatives: and employee matched-giving matched provident.
funding of employee fundraising and volunteering activities.
they not only they support and care in so many Ways Brendan conboy, Chief Executive of The Door Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 30 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy corporate responsibility The number of threeyear funding projects 34 The number of employees that took part in volunteering activities in 2011 689 The number of employee volunteering hours during 2011 4,324 photographs: Top: Made4U in ML2, Boomerang, DunDee Wishaw, Glasgow.
Right: Boomerang Boomerang is a community project situated in in Stobswell, Dundee.
the Stobswell area of Dundee which provides services to over 300 members of the local community.
Through Good Neighbour, a three-year funding package has been provided to Boomerang to support an IT trainer post and establish a new youth caf drop-in centre, known as No.
1. project highlights Boomerang is now an accredited training centre which delivers IT training to the unemployed, elderly, low-paid and single parents.
Boomerang has created a facility which aims maDe4u in ml2, wishaw to reduce anti-social behaviour by providing Made4U in ML2 is a partnership project which its young people with a secure, warm and supports adults, young people and families in friendly environment.
the ML2 postcode area of Wishaw, Glasgow.
solas aFter school project, DuBlin The projects overall aim is to make the local Solas After School Project is an after-school community more resilient by promoting intervention project located in Basin Lane positive lifestyles through the provision of Flats, Dublin.
Through Solas, children who face activities including dance, sports, walking, challenging situations in their lives are helped and health programmes.
Three years of Good to improve their literacy and numeracy skills Neighbour funding has been provided to help and are given time to relax away from the Made4U in ML2 to expand the range of issues they face at home.
Three years of Good activities it provides to the local community Neighbour funding is being used by Solas to and ensure the continued delivery of its fund the day-to-day running of its activities and existing services.
to expand the number of places it has project highlights available.
Made4U in ML2 is providing a special needs project highlights dance group, a walking group, a football Solas has doubled the number of places it programme and a healthy eating programme.
has available to schoolchildren in the local The establishment of a partnership between community.
Made4U in ML2 and HM Shotts Prison to Solas has provided local schoolchildren with enable offenders on an early release scheme trips to swimming pools and sports centres to develop skills.
and has delivered teaching sessions on numeracy, literacy and cookery.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 31 great this holme view team challenge In August 2011, 47 members of the Consumer opportunity Credit Divisions finance team took part in a Was a team challenge at the Holme View Residential and Day Care Centre on Bradfords Holmewood to build on providents estate.
As a result of the challenge, six brandnew allotment plots were built which will give previous Work users of the centre and members of the local community the opportunity to grow their own fresh produce.
key numBers 98.6%, the percentage of volunteers the local community who felt they made a definite positive contribution to the community.
has been so enthusiastic 98.6%, the percentage of volunteers who stated they would undertake a team challenge in the future.
about the 92.5%, the percentage of volunteers allotments who experienced an increased sense of We built and satisfaction and well-being following their team challenge.
noW have even more supporting the money aDvice sector We continue to support money advice and space to groW financial education across the UK.
We work with Advice UK, Citizens Advice, Consumer Credit Counselling Service, Institute of Money their Advisers, Money Advice Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, Money Advice Trust, and National Debtline.
We also work with more oWn specialised providers such as Credit Action, DebtCred, and Christians Against Poverty.
produce olga rayner, Provident employee community investment 2011 cash 1,468,827 2010: 1,237,180 value of employee time 67,802 2010: 73,772 management costs 132,718 2010: 157,035 Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 32 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy corporate responsibility The amount of head EMbEddiNG cr thE ENviroNMENt office waste that is sent to landfill WithiN our opEratioNS The impact our business has on the 0% environment is low compared with businesses Our CR programme is not just about in other sectors.
Despite this, we are The number of addressing the issues that are relevant training days committed to managing our environmental to our customers and the communities we delivered performance to keep our impact to a 12,610 to employees serve.
It is also about managing the other minimum.
We do this by managing our CO 2 social, environmental and economic issues emissions from our energy use and travel, The procurement that are relevant to our business activities.
spend of the and reducing our waste to landfill, paper Provident consumption and water use.
100.3 Financial group our pEoplE during 2011 To help us do this, we have an environmental We employ 3,680 people across the UK management system in place across our and Ireland, and by helping them to achieve next steps businesses.
This system is audited by a third their potential we also help our business For more about our future plans, see our party every year against environmental to flourish.
We want to attract, develop and Corporate Responsibility Report.
It can legislation and the international standard retain the best people by providing a working be viewed online or downloaded at ISO 14001.
In 2011, for the first time, environment that is safe, inclusive and our head office in Bradford received formal www.
com files meritocratic, and where behaviours aligned certification to EN ISO 14001: 2004. reports 2011cr with our core values are recognised and rewarded.
Our aim is to promote a culture where everyone is encouraged and supported to do their best to meet our business objectives and their own personal goals.
i helped to train Our human resources functions are responsible for the development and delivery staff at the neW of a wide range of policies that are material to our employees.
These include policies on contact centre diversity, training and development, and health and safety.
They also ensure our people are engaged and informed so that they can do in bradford.
their jobs, take advantage of opportunities to develop and get involved in our it Was a brilliant CR programme.
opportunity to our SuppliErS In addition to ensuring that we treat our suppliers fairly and with respect, and pay them for the goods and services we use in a prompt manner, we also aim to purchase products and services that are ethically sound and my oWn have good sustainability credentials.
When selecting suppliers, we consider their social, management environmental and economic performance alongside cost and other factors.
and coaching skills harry edwards, Vanquis Bank contact centre operative, Chatham Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987
