Business review Business review | Corporate responsibility review 95 Corporate responsibility review Corporate Responsibility CR is integral to the way we do Our customers business at Prudential.
Our CR activities during 2011 Today we serve more than 26 million customers in diverse continued to be guided by the Chairman, Harvey McGrath.
markets where peoples specific savings, investment and protection needs are different.
However, what is common This review gives an overview of our activities and progress.
among all our customers is that the financial decisions they Prudential also publishes an annual CR report which is available make are among the most important of their lives.
co. uk We do not underestimate how important these decisions are for Creating social and economic value our customers, nor do we take for granted the trust they place in As a business that provides savings, income, investment and us to deliver for them over the long term.
Our customers have protection products and services we create social value through made a choice to purchase from us, and we value highly their our day-to-day operations.
First, we provide customers with decision and their loyalty.
ways to help manage uncertainty and build a more secure future.
We want our customers to stay with us for the long term.
We Second, by playing a key role in financial markets, we provide know this means we must constantly listen to them to understand long-term capital that finances businesses, builds infrastructure their changing needs, and that we must provide them with fair and fosters growth in both developed and developing countries.
and transparent products and customer service that At Prudential we aim to be sustainable in the broadest sense maintains their trust and faith in our business.
Sustainability is Our Customer Charter, which is available on the Prudential plc integral to the way we do business.
We have long-term liabilities website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr and investments, and our commitments to our customers and cr-principles customer-charter highlights our commitments to our employees, as well as our support for communities and our our customers.
These commitments, together with our customer responsibility towards the environment, are rooted in our aim of insights research and ongoing dialogue with our customers, help continuing to deliver strong financial performance sustainably.
us to shape the products we develop and the service we deliver.
We believe that CR is best managed on the ground by those We are in no doubt that good customer service and performance closest to the customer and local stakeholders.
Underpinning are critical to our reputation and, across all our markets, we this approach are our four global CR themes see panel below.
constantly monitor this and take action when required.
In 2011 These themes demonstrate our CR commitments and principles our customer service and performance continued to be to our stakeholders and provide clarity to our businesses on recognised through a number of awards and industry rankings.
where they should focus their CR efforts and resources in the context of their individual markets.
Sustainability is integral to the way we do business.
We have long-term liabilities and investments, and our commitments to our customers and our employees, as well as our support for communities and our responsibility towards the environment, are rooted in our aim of continuing to deliver strong financial performance sustainably.
Our four global CR themes 1.
Our communities Using our financial strength, Recruiting, developing and Increasing the efficiency of Supporting our communities knowledge and skills to retaining the best people our business by reducing through donations, employee provide fair and transparent for the best-performing the direct impact of the volunteering and long-term products, which meet business.
properties we occupy and partnerships with charitable customers needs.
the properties we manage organisations that make a as part of our investment real difference.
96 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review PCA serving growing societies Customer service and performance awards in 2011 In Asia we serve more than 16 million customers with a mix of Prudential Corporation Asia life insurance, pensions, mutual funds, consumer finance, asset Best in Achieving Total Customer Satisfaction in Life management and health and protection products.
Insurance Category, Indonesia Customer Satisfaction Particularly in the emerging markets of South-East Asia, the Awards 2011 SWA Magazine demand for savings and protection products continues to grow Best-in-Class for Japan Equity in Asia, Benchmark Fund of as people seek greater financial security and peace of mind.
the Year Awards 2011 in Singapore We continue to broaden our offering to help meet our Best Contribution in Investor Education and Category customers goals.
Enhancement Mutual Fund, The Bloomberg UTV Financial Health care is one example of where protection continues to be Leadership Awards 2011 in India increasingly important in many markets across Asia, and in 2011 Jackson we further evolved our health-related cover with the launch of World Class customer service by Service Quality PRUearly stage crisis cover.
This marked the sixth consecutive The majority of critical illness cover in the region only provides year in which the company has received both the World benefits at the more advanced stages of illness, which can leave Class designation for call centre customer satisfaction and a Highest Customer Satisfaction by Industry award, a financial burden during the early stages of diagnosis.
To help 1 achieving the highest rating in financial services provide greater peace of mind and enable customers to seek earlier-stage treatment and recovery last year we launched Prudential UK PRUearly stage crisis cover, which provides financial support in Five-star rating in the Financial Adviser Service Awards in the early stages of diagnosis.
the investment providers and packagers category for a third year running, and five stars for life and pensions Beyond health, we recognise the importance of providing practical information and training to help educate young people Five-star rating from independent product research company in the region about the need to prepare for their financial future.
Defaqto for several investment and pension products We have also introduced new products that help to cater to this Best Investment Bond Provider in the Moneyfacts need, and PRUlife ready, introduced in 2011, is one example.
Investment Life & Pensions Awards This is a savings product for young adults, which rewards policyholders as they reach different phases of their lives, M&G including marriage, childbirth and purchasing a home.
OBSR Honours 2011, Outstanding Investment House Across the region we have a highly trained tied agency force, Financial News Awards for Excellence in Institutional Asset Management, Fixed Income Manager of the Year 2011 and we provide ongoing training to both new and experienced agents so that they can deliver the best possible service for our European Pensions Awards 2011, Fixed Income Manager customers.
For example, in Indonesia our fully licensed agents of the Year receive training at Prudential training centres and accredited Morningstar European Fund Awards 2011, Graham French institutions, such as the University of Indonesia, to enhance Best Manager Global Equity their skills and gain professional qualifications.
Professional Adviser Awards 2011, Best Fixed Interest Group UK and International Professional Adviser Awards 2011, Best UK Growth Group Note 1 S ervice Quality Measurement Group benchmarks more than 450 North American contact centres annually, and has evaluated customer satisfaction for contact centres since 1996.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 97 Throughout 2011, Prudential Corporation Asia also continued As well as Jacksons reputation for financial stability, the to provide a range of tools to help financial advisers and service company is widely recognised as one of the leading providers of representatives identify and meet consumers needs.
For variable annuities, which provide greater security to customers example, an iPad application was launched in Hong Kong in times of economic uncertainty.
integrating advice, sales and service.
In Malaysia and Singapore, Jacksons products are sold through banks and broker dealers we continued to develop PRUway, a tool which helps advisers and last year we continued to increase the number of advisers to tailor financial solutions based on an analysis of their selling our variable annuity products to more than 140,000 customers needs.
up 10,000 from 2010 to make them more widely available We strive to live up to our brand promise in the region of always to customers.
listening, always understanding, and regularly monitor our Jackson forges long-lasting strong relationships with its customers trust in us.
In 2011 our customer retention rates distribution partners and was ranked number one in the sector 1 across the region were maintained at 93 per cent, and for advocacy and loyalty among advisers in the Cogent 2011 42 per cent of new business was derived from existing customers.
The prestigious Top 1,000 Asia Brands survey, published in 2011 Jackson also maintained its reputation as a customer service by Campaign Asia-Pacific and based on over 3,000 consumer leader last year when it was rated a World Class customer interviews from across the region, placed Prudential in the top service provider for the sixth consecutive year by Service quartile of all brands in the region for trust and reputation.
Quality Measurement Group SQM in its latest benchmark This has also been validated by our brand-tracking studies study of North American contact centres.
In the same study we in 2011, with increased trust scores in Singapore, Hong Kong also received the Highest Customer Satisfaction by Industry, and Malaysia.
achieving the highest rating in the financial services industry.
Jackson providing security in uncertain times Prudential UK helping customers through Founded over 50 years ago, Jackson National Life is one of the economic difficulties largest life insurance companies in the United States, providing In the UK, continuing difficult economic conditions have led retirement savings and income solutions, with more than customers, more than ever, to seek financial products that offer 2.9 million policies and contracts in force.
them the highest level of security from companies they feel they can trust.
The United States is the worlds largest retirement saving 2 market, with more than 78 million baby boomers moving Annuities are a key product for Prudential UK and market rates into retirement each year.
were at a historic low during 2011.
This means that it is more important than ever for customers looking to take income from The economic downturn and demographic changes have led their pensions to make informed choices.
many people to be unprepared as they approach retirement.
In 2011 Jackson continued to implement its educational In 2011, a new Customer Relationship Team was established programme, Retirementology, which is designed to help people to provide support directly to those customers seeking further understand how better to prepare for their financial future.
information to help them with this important decision.
3 The annual Cogent report is a key industry benchmark study surveying 1,643 advisers.
98 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review There is also a growing demand for face-to-face advice, Our financial strength, longstanding commitment to building especially for investment and retirement planning.
In response, customers trust and listening to our customers have never been we have set up a new service Prudential Financial Planning more important than during these difficult economic times.
A core focus for Prudential UK in 2011 was monitoring the strength of trust in our brand and our understanding of Our UK customer service performance is continuously customers needs.
Independent tracking research conducted monitored through a telephone research service which gauges in November 2011 by Opinion Research identified us as one 1 customer experience.
Throughout 2011 we achieved a of the three most trusted life and pension providers in the UK.
This compares with a financial industry average of 91.8 per cent.
Of those customers who had Asset management a history of trust contact with the new Customer Relationship Team, 98 per cent M&G, Prudentials UK and European asset management agreed that they felt valued as a result.
business, has served retail and institutional investors for over We are one of 23 members of the Association of British Insurers 80 years, investing customers money in equities, fixed income that participate in an annual Life & Savings Benchmarking Study, and real estate.
which seeks to drive continuous improvement through M&G is a long-term investor that takes its responsibilities as monitoring customers experiences.
In 2011 we began a a shareholder seriously, often working closely with the programme of service initiatives designed to make it easier for management of the companies in which it invests.
Active voting customers to deal with us.
This is already delivering results, as is an integral part of M&Gs investment approach.
We believe evidenced by our overall satisfaction score for customer service that exercising our votes both adds value and protects our rising to 84 per cent in 2011 12 up from 81 per cent in 2010, interests as shareholders.
The M&G website provides an which is the current industry average.
overview of voting history: www.
co. uk Corporate We are committed to responding to customer concerns quickly  CorporateGovernance and efficiently.
The details of our approach to customers are Votinghistory.
jsp published on the Prudential UK website in line with FSA At a time when security is a particularly high priority for guidance at www.
co. uk about us complaints data customers, M&Gs retail business launched the European M&G Prudential UK fell into the best-performing 15 per cent of Inflation Linked Corporate Bond Fund, enabling savers to protect financial companies included in data published by the Financial their investments in corporate bonds from rising prices.
M&Gs institutional business also added to its stable of We actively review our operational processes, as we seek to inflationlinked products for pension funds with a new UK social continually improve the level of service we deliver.
Some housing debt fund, in addition to 2 billion already invested in examples include: enabling advisers to submit and track new the sector.
business applications online: continued reductions in the transfer times between annuity providers: streamlining of the claims The business also continues to advance into lending markets payment process: earlier engagement with mortgage providers that were once the preserve of banks, notably in commercial where we need to understand if they have any further legal mortgages and lending to companies.
interest in a forthcoming maturing, and better use of automated In 2011, M&Gs UK Companies Financing Fund, set up in 2009 to payment technology.
help fill the lending gap left by banks in the wake of the financial crisis, lent 505 million to mid-cap UK companies.
In 2011, M&Gs UK Companies Financing Fund, set up in 2009 to help fill the lending gap left by banks in the wake of the financial crisis, lent 505 million to mid-cap UK companies.
Note 1 V iewscast independent research run by IPSOS Mori.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 99 M&G continues to have one of the highest trust scores among Our people sector peers.
For the intermediary audience we ranked number Across the Group, we employ more than 26,000 people.
It is vital 1 one for trustworthiness, and for private investors we ranked, to our continued success that we create an environment that on average, within the top two most trusted asset management develops and retains committed and motivated people, people 2 brands in 2011. who are able to achieve excellence and deliver outstanding performance for our customers, our shareholders and our Informing global debates communities.
As a business that is built around a long-term perspective, we To achieve this our people strategy focuses on four areas.
actively participate in global debates and policy considerations that affect our customers by sharing our knowledge and insights.
Employee engagement The complexities and challenges surrounding ageing populations Across Prudential we encourage an ongoing dialogue with our have significant policy implications in many countries around the employees through events such as open forums.
Through our partnership with the Washington DC-based employees to hear directly from their executive teams and raise think tank, the Center for Strategic and International Studies questions.
There are also a number of employee consultation CSIS we have continued to contribute to the debate during forums in place, such as the M&G Staff Consultative Committee 2011, through events and seminars with policymakers promoting and the UK Employee Forum within Prudential UK.
Our UK the Global Aging Preparedness Index.
business also has a long-standing relationship with the union Unite.
In addition, our dedicated intranet sites allow us to This Index, sponsored by Prudential, is a detailed study share information.
evaluating the preparedness of 20 of the worlds emerging and established economies resulting from demographic changes.
Engaging effectively with our employees is critical to building and sustaining a high-performing business and retaining talent A copy of the report is available at http: gapindex.
We conduct surveys in our businesses to In 2011, we commissioned additional demographic research monitor levels of engagement with Prudential as an employer, in partnership with CSIS, looking in further detail at retirement identify the effectiveness of our organisations structures and expectations in Asia.
The findings of the study, which will be practices and highlight areas for improvement.
Our successful shared with policymakers, will be available in 2012. approach to employee engagement in our UK business was recognised at workingmums.
co. uks Top Employer Awards in We are also actively engaged with a number of institutions, such October 2011.
We were also commended for our commitment as the International Centre for Financial Regulation, in promoting and strategy enabling colleagues, at all levels, to provide the understanding of the broader socio-economic contribution feedback on policies such as flexible working, and a willingness made by insurance.
As part of this we have been promoting the to take this on board.
need to ensure that this is properly recognised as a key part of the debate around future rule-making in the sector.
Across our businesses we also encourage employee volunteering to support charitable organisations and we recognise that such initiatives not only bring advantages to the charities but also provide development opportunities for our employees.
For example, employees from our Asian businesses travelled to Japan and spent time supporting recovery efforts following the earthquake in March: while, in the UK, we provide time for employees to act as mentors through the Social Mobility Foundation.
Notes 1 Source: ORC International Investrack Syndicated Research, August 2011.
2 Source: TNS Tracking Research Dec 2011 UK Private Investors.
100 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review Diversity Prudential Corporation Asia: Identifying the right talent At Prudential we provide opportunities for our people regardless and leaders is critical to supporting the expansive growth of their gender, ethnicity, disability status, age, religion, caring of our Asian business.
In 2011 we cascaded a consistent responsibilities or sexual orientation.
Our policies are guided approach to our development centres, where we identify the by the principles of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human next generation of leaders.
We believe there is considerable Rights and the International Labour Organisations core labour untapped talent in our employee base and building leadership standards.
These are also incorporated into our Group Code of capability will continue to be a focus in 2012. Business Conduct, which sets individual standards of employee Jackson: The Jackson University provides business-specific behaviour.
This is made available to all employees on our Group development activities for employees.
management team play a key role in shaping the curriculum, The diversity of our employees across the Group is fundamental ensuring it aligns to key corporate initiatives for the business.
In addition, the LEAP programme, launched in January 2011 to the growth and success of the business.
We believe that great companies not only accept diversity, but also recognise it as a and targeted at senior leaders within Jackson, aims to accelerate their leadership potential and organisational source of innovation and competitive advantage.
Talent management Prudential UK: Career development centres are held for Talent management takes place at both overall Group level middle managers, focusing on their career aspirations and and locally within each of our businesses.
All employees are the opportunities available to them.
encouraged to take responsibility for driving their own M&G: Participation in one of M&Gs Leadership and Talent development and agreeing a development plan with their manager.
To support them, Prudential provides ongoing Development Programmes is identified through the business succession planning process.
The programmes are designed development activities.
to create focused learning networks and active talent At Group level the emphasis is on succession planning for senior communities.
Examples include: roles and development of our overall leadership talent pipeline.
Through periodical reviews, the Group Executive Committee The Cornerstone Programme: Focused on developing ensures that we have a flow of suitable candidates to fill key roles individuals with the potential to excel among senior across the organisation.
In support of this we have a number of management: Group-wide programmes including: The Catalyst Programme: Aimed at more junior talent and focused on developing them into wider and more Future Forum which brings together key leadership talent from across the Group to network, develop their thinking and senior roles: share ideas for application in the business: and The Investor Development Programmes: Focused on Momentum which recruits talented individuals early enabling investment talent to drive investment and on in their careers and, through structured development business success.
and role rotations, prepares them for senior roles within Group Head Office: The Enhance programme offers the organisation.
employees the opportunity to hone their skills for working effectively and includes development in areas such as At a local level, building a strong technical and commercial leadership pipeline is essential to the success of our business cross-cultural awareness and building effective partnerships.
Some examples of our commitment to developing talent within our businesses are: Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 101 Performance and reward In 2011 we also conducted a monitoring trial at our sites in Asia, The performance objectives of our employees are linked to the enabling us to measure the environmental impact of those offices delivery of business goals.
Throughout the year, employees are as a first step in improving our environmental performance in engaged in regular reviews with their managers to understand these growing markets.
how they are performing against their objectives.
In July 2011 we submitted the first year of energy consumption figures as part of the UK governments Carbon Reduction Each individual contributes to the success of the Group and should be rewarded accordingly.
Our reward system ensures Commitment CRC, a mandatory energy efficiency scheme 1 for qualifying UK public and private sector organisations.
The that overall Group and specific Business Unit results, as well as individual performance and behaviours, are fairly reflected in government is committed to reducing national carbon emissions by 80 per cent from 1990 levels by 2050.
A central part of its each employees remuneration.
These policies and structures are regularly reviewed to ensure that they are appropriate and strategy is the introduction of the CRC, which encourages organisations to develop energy management strategies that competitive in the markets in which we operate, and that they remain aligned with our business plans and priorities.
promote a better understanding of energy use.
We believe it is important for our employees to have the Under the CRC, we submitted figures covering all properties opportunity to benefit from the Groups success through share occupied in the UK by Prudential companies and the PRUPIM ownership.
In the UK, we operate two all-employee share plans: investment property portfolio between April 2010 and a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn SAYE March 2011. scheme.
In 2011, 64 per cent of eligible employees participated The CRC includes a publicly available annual performance in one or both of these plans.
In Asia, we operate two SAYE table, which ranks participants energy efficiency performance.
schemes, similar to those in the UK.
Almost a quarter of eligible Credits were awarded for installing automatic meter readers employees and 18 per cent of eligible agents participated in and complying with the BSI Kitemark Energy Reduction these schemes in 2011.
Verification scheme, approved by the Environment Agency.
As a result of verified energy savings, we were ranked number Protecting the environment 531 from 2,103 participants, and were placed well ahead of our We recognise that protecting the environment is an important peers in our industry.
part of managing a sustainable business, and that an effective environmental strategy is good both for the planet and for Under the European Union Energy Performance of Buildings business efficiency.
Directive, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs are required for any building that is constructed, sold or rented.
EPCs rate We aim to ensure that we minimise the impact of our activities energy use and efficiency, enabling property investors and on the environment.
Our strategy focuses on reducing the direct prospective occupiers to consider ratings and levels of carbon impact of the properties we occupy as well as the properties we emissions for our occupied and commercial properties in the UK.
manage through PRUPIM, which is a top-20 global real estate In 2011 we retained ISO 14001 environmental management fund manager, with 15.8 billion of assets under management certification for all our UK occupied properties.
In the US, Jackson has also focused on reducing energy use.
Reducing our direct impact: occupied properties For example, high-efficiency, extreme-density air-conditioning units were installed during the construction of a new data centre.
We monitor energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, water consumption, waste, paper use, recycling and travel at all Jackson also installed two units at its existing data centre, to increase energy efficiency and cooling capacity.
In addition, our UK sites, and at Jacksons main premises in North America in Lansing, Michigan, Denver, Colorado, and Nashville, Tennessee.
low-energy lighting has been installed at its headquarters.
Note 1 To qualify for the CRC companies must have at least one half-hourly meter, settled on the half-hourly market across the whole organisation, with total half-hourly electricity consumption over 6,000 MWh after usage for transport and domestic accommodation have been excluded.
102 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review Reducing our impact: property investment portfolio Supporting local communities PRUPIM believes that taking a lead in its approach to responsible For us, part of being a long-term business means a commitment property investment protects and enhances returns for its clients.
to supporting the long-term well-being of the communities in which we operate.
In 2011, PRUPIM revised its Responsible Investment Strategy to reflect its new focus on fund management.
This strategy delivers The social value of our business helping customers manage a sector-leading approach to managing and responding to the uncertainty and build a more secure future, as well as our growing range of environmental and social issues that can have investments providing long-term capital that finances an impact on property values, helping to protect and enhance businesses, builds infrastructure and fosters economic growth fund and asset performance for clients.
The strategy focuses on is further underpinned by our community programmes four areas: ensuring portfolio resilience, driving environmental and activities.
improvements, building strong relationships, and responsibility All our businesses have community investment programmes in in its own operations.
place, guided by committees that determine where funds are Three of the funds managed by PRUPIM were awarded a best spent.
Green Star in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Across the Group, our activities include a mix of charitable GRESB.
Around 340 real estate funds with assets worth nearly donations, employee volunteering schemes and charity US$1 trillion participated in the benchmark, covering around partnerships, many of which we work with directly, on the 21,000 assets.
Only 65 funds were awarded a GRESB Green Star ground, to develop and implement community projects.
Our and, by achieving this on three funds, PRUPIM continues to ethos is to establish long-term relationships with our charity demonstrate leadership by integrating sustainability into its partners to ensure that the projects we support are sustainable.
We also work closely with our partners to ensure that our PRUPIMs focus on delivering environmental improvements programmes continuously improve.
across its managed portfolio saw it reduce its carbon emissions The diversity of our markets means that our programmes vary intensity in 2010 11 by an average of 9 per cent at UK shopping from country to country, but a common point of emphasis for centres and ISO 14001-accredited offices, compared to a our community investment is education.
Nearly 63 per cent of waste from UK by employees, financial education and support to improve shopping centres was diverted from landfill.
across the entire UK investment portfolio was reduced by 1 12 per cent in 2010 11 compared to a 2008 09 baseline.
PRUPIMs approach and progress can be found in its annual Responsible Property Investment report at www.
com rpi Local community support highlights in 2011 2,415 9.1 m 28% 21% employees donated to Group charitable of employees increase in charity through payroll donations increase volunteered their time Group employee giving schemes of over 21% to good causes in 2011 volunteer numbers Note 1 D ata based on PRUPIMs reporting year from April to March.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 103 Financial education In addition to on-air and online presence, we work closely with Financial education forms an important part of our educational non-governmental organisations and government agencies to activity.
We believe that encouraging people to be financially bring Cha-Ching to schools incorporating interactive money literate helps to underpin overall economic development and management activities for students.
This is particularly true for young During 2011, we also continued to run our highly successful people at times of economic volatility.
financial training seminars for women Investing in Your Future A number of financial education projects are supported through and this year more than 4,500 women in China, Indonesia and Vietnam took part.
The events, supporting women with lower the Chairmans Challenge, our Group-wide volunteering programme.
This includes our financial literacy projects with incomes, were first launched in China in 2004 to help women who are often responsible for planning their families financial Junior Achievement the worldwide charity focused on building young peoples financial skills in the US and Asia, as well as needs, but who traditionally had limited financial training.
Approximately 32,000 women have attended the seminars our partnership with Plan International in Thailand.
These six-year partnerships have benefited approximately 90,000 to date.
Since 2007, Prudential has also partnered with the Chinese Aside from the Chairmans Challenge, we also provide ongoing Ministry of Education, the Chinese Academy of Social Science support to additional initiatives to help improve financial and the Chinese Insurance Regulatory Commission on an knowledge and understanding.
In 2011, in response to the insurance education curriculum in schools.
The programme growing need for financial education for children across Asia, we has reached more than 26,000 students from 28 schools across launched Cha-Ching Money-Smart Kids, the first programme of seven provinces.
its kind in the region, aimed at helping parents to instil In the UK we have continued our partnerships with a range of moneysmart skills in their children.
organisations in support of financial education, including Citizens Following extensive research and working closely with Dr Alice Advice, the Personal Finance Education Group and The Schools Network.
Through our work with these organisations, thousands Wilder, the award-winning researcher and child learning expert, we launched a series of three-minute musical animated short of adults and children are developing essential financial literacy skills, to make decisions that will have a positive effect on their stories, broadcast on Turner Cartoon Network the number one childrens channel in Asia based on characters in a band and financial welfare.
The episodes are shown Prudential UK has worked with Citizens Advice since 2002, daily, reaching over four million homes and seven markets in Asia.
and we are now a leading partner on its Financial Skills for Life Recognising Asian childrens media habits, a dedicated website programme.
Our partnership with Personal Finance Education www.
com was developed with digital resources Group began in 2001, and our funding has allowed it to maintain for parents and educators.
Eighteen million website page views and develop its Quality Mark accreditation system for financial were recorded in the first four months of the programme, with capability teaching resources.
Also in the UK, an online financial an average website visit duration in excess of nine minutes.
education training tool in partnership with The Schools Network attracted 8,700 visits in 2011.
The resource, called Adding Up to a Lifetime, has been used in English schools since 2006.
104 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review Improving education and skills In 2011, M&G continued to support children and youth Another element of our education activity is Prudential UKs organisations working with disadvantaged young people.
This partnership with Business in the Community, which includes included support for: Leap, a UK charity specialising in youth the Business Class programme, for which we are a National and conflict resolution: Kids Company, which provides practical, Champion.
Our three-year commitment involves working emotional and educational support to vulnerable inner-city in partnership with local schools in Reading, Stirling and children: and Blind in Business, which helps blind and partially Westminster to develop a strategic plan to support them sighted students to make the transition from education to in areas such as leadership and governance, the curriculum employment.
Last year, selected employees from Prudential UK and employability.
were trained to mentor young people on a one-to-one basis for 12 months.
We also support projects that encourage people from lowincome backgrounds into leading educational institutions.
Employee volunteering M&G has a longstanding relationship with the Social Mobility In 2011, 7,209 employees across the Group volunteered in Foundation www.
uk which helps their communities on a range of projects, an increase of nearly high-achieving young people from low-income backgrounds to 21 per cent in the number of volunteers compared with 2010. get into top universities and professions.
The Social Mobility At Prudential UK alone, 40 per cent of employees took part in Foundation is supported through charitable donations, formal volunteering during 2011.
Activities across the Group varied internships and mentors drawn from senior employees, who are from supporting financial literacy through programmes such matched with students to provide guidance and support.
The as the Investing in Your Future seminars and the Insurance charity Springboard for Children also received assistance from Education Programme in Asia, providing support to local M&G in 2011, supporting literacy programmes in schools.
charities benefiting children and the elderly in the US, and Our intention for the future is to increase the level of support we mentoring schoolchildren, supporting the elderly and provide to education.
Especially in the UK, where the difficult skillssharing with charities in the UK.
We recognise that economic conditions mean that youth unemployment is a employee volunteering brings benefit not only to the charities growing problem, there is an increasing need for initiatives that but also to the development of our people, and we actively can drive educational improvement and help get people into encourage colleagues to participate in our volunteering work.
As part of that ambition, in 2012 we plan to increase our programmes.
commitment to apprenticeship schemes in the UK, as well as establishing further long-term partnerships with charities Chairmans Challenge working in education.
Many of our volunteers are involved in our flagship volunteering programme, the Chairmans Challenge, which was launched six Supporting children beyond education years ago.
Since then 133 projects have been supported by our As well as its education support through our global partnership employees in partnership with charities.
In 2011, more than with Junior Achievement, Jackson has a community fund that 3,000 employees signed up as Chairmans Challenge volunteers, matches its employees donations to approved charities on a an increase of 14 per cent on 2010.
Last year, our office in two-to-one basis, which includes donations to childrens causes Mumbai joined the programme for the first time and 23 per cent around Jacksons sites.
In addition, in 2011 Jackson continued to of employees participated.
All of the projects included in the partner with the Big Brother Big Sister the oldest and largest Chairmans Challenge receive a financial donation from the youth mentoring organisation in the US providing employee Group for each employee who signs up as a volunteer and five mentors for at-risk youth.
shortlisted projects receive additional funding.
3,000 employees signed up as Chairmans Challenge volunteers, 14% on 2010 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 105 Chairmans Challenge Winner 2011 During 2011, 37 volunteers from 10 countries spent nine days Each year employees across the Group vote for the shortlisted in Japan supporting relief efforts following the earthquake and project they believe has made the greatest impact.
In 2011, the tsunami that struck the country in March.
The team partnered winning project, as voted for by employees, was Learning about with local NPO Project Yui, based in Ishinomaki, in the Miyagi Earning.
This programme in partnership with Prestasi Junior, prefecture, which was one of the worst-hit areas, assisting with the Indonesian branch of Junior Achievement benefited over logistics, clearing debris and mentoring children displaced by the 200 street children at a safe house in Jakarta, through the tsunami.
Prudential Corporation Asias Caring Fund also made commitment of over 170 employees from our Indonesian a donation to the relief effort, and donations made by colleagues business, who helped children to develop basic communication were matched by the business.
In 2011 the Group continued to be a partner of Save the Children through support for its Childrens Emergency Fund.
Shortlisted projects 2011 Junior Achievement, Hong Kong: more than 1,700 students Donations benefited from financial management workshops run by over We calculate our community investment spend using the 290 Prudential Assurance Hong Kong volunteers: internationally recognised London Benchmarking Group standard.
This includes cash donations to registered Junior Achievement, US: 176 Jackson employees dedicated 651 hours to educating young people in financial literacy skills: charitable organisations, as well as a cash equivalent for in-kind contributions.
Plan International, Thailand: 230 Prudential employees in Thailand conducted a variety of educational programmes on In 2011, the Group spent 9.1 million supporting community financial management and disaster relief, benefiting more than activities, an increase of 21.3 per cent on 2010.
300 students: and The direct cash donations to charitable organisations amounted Prudential UK: 65 employees dedicated 1,884 hours to to 7.2 million, of which approximately 2.8 million came from our EU operations, which are principally our UK insurance Age UKs Call in Time programme, which supports over 500 isolated older people.
The cash contribution to charitable organisations from our Disaster relief EU operations is broken down as follows: education 1,211,000: The Group maintains a disaster relief fund which can be social and welfare 1,371,000: environment and regeneration activated to support relief efforts following disasters in 27,000: cultural 74,000 and staff volunteering 93,000. countries where we operate.
Our commitment to disaster relief also often goes beyond financial aid, with our people The cash contribution to charitable organisations from Prudentials non-EU operations Jackson National Life Insurance helping on the ground.
Company and Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 4.4 million.
It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those expressions as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did not make any such donations or incur any such expenditure in 2011.
106 Business review | Corporate responsibility review | continued Corporate responsibility review Accountability and governance Payment policy The Board It is Group policy to agree terms of payment when orders The Board discusses the Groups CR performance at least once for goods and services are placed, and to pay in accordance a year and also reviews and approves the Group CR Report and with those terms.
strategy on an annual basis.
In the UK, we have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code, launched in December 2008 by the UK Department for Responsibility Committee Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
In 2011, our trade Below the Board, the Responsibility Committee comprises senior creditor days, based on the ratio of amounts that were owed to representatives from relevant Group functions and each of our trade creditors at the year end to the aggregate of the amounts core businesses.
This committee is responsible for monitoring invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 22 days.
the Groups CR activities and reviewing CR policies.
The Prompt Payment Code and its signatories can be found Code of Business Conduct at www.
uk Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is integrated in our Code of Business Conduct.
Our code is Supply chain management reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Refer to page 129 for Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental more information.
and economic impacts go beyond the products and services it supplies to include the performance of its suppliers Local Governance and contractors.
In M&G, Jackson and Prudential UK there are governance It is our policy to work in partnership with suppliers whose committees in place with senior management representation values and standards are aligned with our Group Code of which agree strategy and spend.
Procurement practices in Prudential UK have been successfully accredited with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply CIPS certification, an industry benchmark of recognised good practice.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 10 107 7 Section 3 Governance 108 Board of directors 113 Governance report: Corporate governance Risk governance Corporate responsibility governance 130 Additional disclosures 131 Index to principal Directors report disclosures
