2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 17 Corporate responsibility Lost Time Injury rate 2007 2011 0.14 0.12 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.00 07 08 09 10 11 At Cape, safety is central to our working culture.
Health and safety Asbestos management and operating licences 2011 was another year where health and safety performance During the year, Cape continued to offer asbestos removal continued to deliver improvement across our operations.
services to the highest recognised international standards.
In all operational areas where asbestos management can 2011 Group health, safety and the environment only be undertaken under licence from legislative enforcement The level of Lost Time Injury LTI performance, the primary bodies, Cape continued to be awarded the appropriate international benchmark for measuring safety performance, approvals.
As part of these approval processes Capes again demonstrates Capes commitment to improving performance was monitored and evaluated by independent performance.
The Group achieved a reduction of 12.3% experts.
In 2011 we continued investing in the most modern in LTIs compared to the previous years already record equipment and techniques to exceed legislative compliance figures, with an LTI frequency rate of 0.025 per 100,000 hours and deliver exceptional, safe and efficient operations to clients.
This represents the fourth consecutive annual fall in accident frequency.
Health, safety, environmental and welfare KPIs As part of Capes internal management controls we This performance again exceeded Capes internal target continued to monitor our overall health, safety, environmental and we believe this is world-class within our industry sector.
and welfare performance with a range of KPIs.
The We continue to steer the business towards the ultimate goal results of these measures are made available to all levels of zero injuries accidents and no harm to the environment.
of management and are reported to every Board meeting.
While we believe that we are well on the way to this goal, During 2011, Cape met all criteria set regarding appropriate we continue to examine areas for potential improvements.
All indicators demonstrated performance which exceeded targets, and the Board was not asked to It is therefore with great sadness that Cape acknowledges the take any corrective actions.
fatality of Mr Tian Danga, a Thai scaffolder who was tragically killed while at work.
It is of no comfort that the outcome of Route map towards zero injuries accidents and the investigation identified no fault attributed to Cape systems no harm to the environment or operations.
Although Cape believes that its performance is already world-class, we are still not satisfied.
We are still only part Quality Management System of the way towards achieving our goal of zero injury accidents In 2011 we continued to build on our extensive work to and no harm to the environment.
develop, extend and improve our health and safety Quality Management System.
This system is a key part of Capes Ensuring that our people are fully trained and competent commitment to improve health, safety and environmental to undertake their duties is fundamental to supporting our performance and ensure the commitment of our workforce excellent health and safety performance.
Therefore, our work to looking after themselves and their fellow workers.
These in 2011 to achieve this goal included increased levels of enhancements to our quality system have helped further behavioural safety training, strengthening supervisor training improve the understanding of Capes expectations and and improving competence programmes systems.
We have performance aspirations by our multinational, multicultural, also increased our practical, on-the-ground, trade skills multilingual workforce.
Continued expansion of our health, safety, environment Health and safety awards and quality external accreditation Capes focus on continually improving our health, safety In 2011, Cape continued to increase the coverage of our and environmental performance continued to be health, safety, environment and quality certification across internationally recognised with a large number of awards, our whole international footprint, increasing the total number of prizes and certifications in 2011. certificates of conformity for ISO 9001 quality systems, 14001 environmental and OSHAS 18001 health and safety to 38.
Lost Time Injury rate 18 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued 2011 also saw the successful UK launch of the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board senior management programme.
This trains our workforce in supervision and management to industry-leading standards.
More than 100 employees have already taken elements of the programme, with twice as many scheduled to attend in 2012.
We are similarly committed to younger people starting their careers.
Our UK business continues to be a major sponsor of apprenticeships, employing more thermal insulation apprentices than any other company in our sector.
We also successfully launched training for key supervisors and managers in the UK National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH National General Certificate.
This follows Capes successful accreditation to deliver this globally recognised health Our people and safety qualification.
Developing the capability of our organisation through our people, Cape workers on-site in Australia In Arzew, Algeria, we established a skills training centre in 2010 to support the Sonatrach GL3-Z LNG project with local People by region staffing needs.
This centre has now completed a series 1.
Cape has now trained 500 local personnel in insulation trades, 50 in scaffolding and 30 in fire-proofing.
A further 200 insulators are being trained and tested on site.
To help ensure high health and safety standards we are training some 30 local employees to be assistant HSE 1.
Gulf Middle East 45% & North Africa 11% officers on site.
Finally, a further 10 local people are training 4.
Far East Pacific Rim 24% 0 100 in HR or accounting-related disciplines to support local management and control functions.
We have now established four construction skills training centres in the Gulf, with plans to create a further two in 2012.
Establishment of IHQ in Singapore During the year, as previously announced, Cape established Cape employs around 19,000 people in 30 countries.
Our wide an International Headquarters IHQ in Singapore.
This office range of services and the increasing multi-disciplinary nature of is now operational.
Senior managers based at the IHQ include our contracts requires people with a wide range of technical a Head of Group Security, Head of Corporate Development, skills and increased management skills.
Developing our people Group Head of International Resourcing and a Regional Health is therefore essential to our growth aspirations and we continue and Safety Director.
Cape plans to make further senior hires in to invest in people development across the business.
People and skills development Resourcing Capes Future Leaders Programme, which provides in-depth Capes newly appointed Group Head of International management development for future leaders, successfully Resourcing is tasked with leading the labour resourcing of completed its first phase.
The second phase, which will major projects and attracting the best available people into develop a futher 70 key managers from all regions, has now key positions across the business.
During the year, the resourcing team worked with local In September 2011, the first-ever cohort of 8 Graduate recruitment teams to mobilise over 520 scaffolders, riggers, Management Trainees also commenced a two-year blasters painters, insulators and a wide range of additional programme of experience-based training and development skilled trades for Capes Kumul, Lihir and Bayu Undan projects covering all aspects of Capes business.
Successful completion in Papua New Guinea and Timor.
The team also efficiently of the programme will lead to a key position on completion.
managed the temporary transfer of a large number of UK In November 2011, Cape was recognised with a People workers to Australia at short notice, following a client request Development award for our excellence and sustained for additional specialist resource to make up lost time on a commitment to the development of our people at the Shellsubstantial project near Perth.
This example demonstrates sponsored UK Oil and Gas Industry awards ceremony in Capes global reach and flexibility in meeting short-notice Aberdeen, UK.
client requests for skilled labour on an international scale.
