Our five key themes external gender network.
Our new Board has RBS in the community We focus our actions across five key themes a range of skills and experience.
Three of our Being a good corporate citizen is also about within our business.
board members are women, compared with supporting the communities in which we one in 2010. operate.
Our Group community programmes Fair banking are mainly focused around supporting It has been another challenging year for some enterprise, financial education and employee We are working to provide a simple, of our people as we continue to restructure the engagement.
accessible and innovative service for our Group.
We highly value our employees and customers in response to their requirements.
seek to support them through this process with We have worked with The Princes Trust PT Banking is central to the daily lives of almost a range of tools and services to help them find for over ten years to support the UKs next everyone, and its important that we other roles, either inside or outside of RBS.
Our partnership understand their needs.
also offer help with the emotional and practical with PT won a number of awards last year, challenges that they may experience.
recognising the strength and depth of our We met 23 out of the 25 goals in our UK relationship.
In Scotland, we are strong customer charter and made good progress Safety and security supporters of The Princes Scottish Youth with our Ulster Bank and Citizens commitments.
Business Trust, where our sponsorship We have also taken steps to proactively identify Managing the safety and security of our focuses on grants for small businesses people who may get into financial difficulty so employees and customers is one of our and investment in entrepreneurs from we can work with customers to improve their fundamental responsibilities.
We have reviewed and simplified our intelligence to keep up with the challenging charging structure and extended our and changeable environment that we operate Our financial education programme mortgage offers as we aim to place customers in, and continually review and innovate the way MoneySense continues to be a success in the at the heart of our business decisions.
we work to respond to changes in the threats UK and Ireland.
Our research into the habits of we face.
In 2011, we invested around 3.5 40,000 young people in the UK told us that Supporting enterprise million in branch security in the UK, Ireland MoneySense is making children more aware of and the US.
We also invested in a new fraud their financial responsibilities.
Through our Giving support to enterprise in the economies profiling system to help us detect fraud more MoneySense programme we have a suite of in which we operate is a cornerstone of our easily to minimise the losses for our customers.
products which help school children as well as customer offering.
The health of RBS is directly Internally, we also developed our global safety adults and small businesses.
influenced by the health and success of the and health modules in 2011 and improved our businesses it supports.
Whether its continuing internal service, Lifematters, which helps Helping our employees to support the causes to serve our existing clients in the best way employees access the resource and support that matter to them is a big part of what we do.
possible or working to give start ups the help they need when they are experiencing We support the charitable contributions of our they need to become successful we are here difficulties at work or at home.
people, which meant in 2011 6.6 million was to support the growth of viable businesses.
We given to 3,000 charities across the globe.
As provide advice and guidance to businesses Citizenship and environmental well as matching employee donations and through our relationship managers and in the sustainability fundraising, we also support employees to get form of business planning tools and online involved.
We know it is a difficult time for some As a large organisation we have a responsibility volunteered a total of 236,600 hours to try and organisations and thats why we created a to manage our internal and external impacts.
make a difference in this way.
specialist team to provide support.
In 2011, A core part of this is the way we govern our our Specialised Relationship Management environmental, social and ethical risks, not only There are also a number of programmes led teams supported over 5,000 businesses within our own operations, but also in relation by our business divisions.
In total, in 2011, back to health.
In 2011, we we invested 72 million in our communities implemented sector policies which clearly through both cash and in-kind donations, as Employee engagement define our lending criteria in certain sensitive well as employee time.
2012 will also see the launch of Being a good employer is fundamental to our revised and more stretching targets to reduce For more information on sustainability success as a business.
Our employees are a our environmental footprint across our travel and community initiatives, please visit diverse and talented group which we support and energy, waste, water and paper use.
html and encourage through internal networks and These targets will drive forward the training.
We were included in The Times Top management of our own footprint, and allow 50 Employers for Women in 2011 and received our stakeholders to track our progress.
a Gold rating from Opportunity Now, an RBS Group 2011 31
