Sustainability We are rebuilding an RBS that is stronger and The Committee is supported by the Group customer money and data safe, and managing safer.
The work we are doing on sustainability Sustainability Forum, a network of senior our wider ethical, social and environmental is an integral part of this, contributing to the sustainability managers from across the impacts remain among the key concerns long-term performance of the company and organisation.
This forum is responsible for of our stakeholders.
Through our ongoing the return to ongoing profitability.
driving actions agreed at the GSC.
opinion research we continue to measure the views of stakeholders including the Within the Bank there is a robust governance Our stakeholder engagement programme general public, opinion formers politicians, framework in place for the management of allows us to understand the issues that matter regulatory and industry bodies, journalists, sustainability.
The Group Sustainability most to those who have an interest in our media and employees.
Committee GSC is a Board level committee, business.
The outcome of these engagements chaired by our Senior Independent Director, informs decision making across the Group.
The GSC reviews Treating customers fairly, supporting sustainability strategy, values and policy.
enterprise, being a good employer, keeping Sustainability principles In January 2012, the Group Sustainability Committee agreed a set of principles Secure we are putting in place to guide the Maintaining our financial way we do business.
health whilst meeting our A Good Employer responsibilities to customers, employees and suppliers Providing our people with the tools These principles will apply to all and support to do their jobs effectively Keeping our customers areas of the company.
and develop their skills and employees data and assets safe Valuing and promoting diversity in all We believe that balancing the areas of recruitment and employment Protecting against fraud and corruption needs of all our stakeholders is Rewarding our people fairly for their work the best way to deliver sustainable commercial success.
Thats why were committed to being: Supportive A Responsible Citizen Meeting our customers needs Supporting sustainable and Working within both the letter and spirit of legislation and abiding inclusive economic growth by relevant codes of practice Helping customers and voluntary standards in financial difficulty Supporting the communities we work in Respecting human rights throughout our sphere of influence Upholding environmental responsibility within the Bank, and through our customers and suppliers Open Consulting with and listening to our stakeholders Showing transparency in the way we run our business Publicly communicating our efforts to be responsible and sustainable 30 RBS Group 2011
