Our business and our strategy The economic environment although at 8.5% in December it was high Unemployment rates, %, December Keep up with our latest compared with previous recoveries.
economic research and 15 analysis at Housing remained a drag anchor.
com economics around a further 4% and were almost a third below their peak level.
Sales volumes were subdued and an overhang of properties on 9 When economies are emerging from which borrowers had defaulted remained.
recessions rooted in high levels of debt and 6 stresses in the financial system, growth is Judging that the pace of recovery was too slow slower than in the typical recovery.
That was to reduce unemployment sufficiently, the 3 the experience of our major markets in 2011.
It Federal Reserve tried to stimulate the economy is what we should expect in 2012 and beyond.
in the third quarter with unconventional 0 measures designed to push down medium to UK US Republic of Ireland In the UK, growth weakened.
Total economic long-term interest rates.
It also said it expected 2010 2011 activity, as measured by gross domestic to keep the Fed Funds rate, its main policy rate, product GDP, grew by 0.8% compared with at its current low level at least until mid-2013.
Sources: National statistical agencies 2.1% in 2010.
At the start of the year, expectations had been more positive, the Ireland emerged from three years of Real GDP growth rates, % consensus forecast for growth having been recession.
The export sector led modest 3.0 2.1%.
Yet the year ended with the economy growth in the first half of the year, as it contracting.
benefited from the boost to competitiveness 2.5 delivered by falling wages, and stronger Unemployment rose sharply, from less than 8% demand in some of Irelands main markets.
2.0 in mid-year to 8.4% in December.
Wage growth However, the economy appears to have shrunk was subdued and inflation reduced the again in the second half.
1.0 For Ireland, gross national product GNP is a In commercial property, values edged higher, better measure of peoples material well-being.
Strong performance It reflects the income residents receive rather in prime markets, particularly central London than the value of the incomes generated in 0 was the main source of gains.
Again, however, the country, an important distinction when momentum slowed towards the end of the year.
there is a large foreign-owned sector that -0.5 remits profits overseas.
UK US Republic of Ireland Housing market activity remained subdued.
2010 2011 Prices probably fell slightly although the Unemployment averaged more than 14%.
Sources: National statistical agencies different measures disagree on the extent of House prices dropped to a point where they Note: Republic of Ireland is first three quarters of 2011 the change.
were close to 50% below their peak level at the versus first three quarters of 2010 years end.
Against this backdrop, the Bank of England continued its ultra-loose monetary policy Looming over 2011 and prospects for 2012 However, it will take political will and public stance.
Despite persistently above-target was the likelihood that some euro area support to manage the immediate risk of inflation, interest rates remained unchanged at governments will not be able to repay in full defaults and to tackle the root causes of the a record low of 0.5%, the Bank judging monies they have borrowed.
Uncertainty about acute challenges that have accumulated elevated inflation to be the result of temporary how this problem will be solved damaged since the establishment of the single currency factors.
In fact, its greater concern was that confidence.
The policy prescribed for highly in 1999. the weak economy would cause inflation to be indebted countries, fiscal austerity, made their too low and in October, the Monetary Policy growth prospects worse because there are no Absent the worst outcome for the euro area Committee announced that it would increase compensating interest or exchange rate gains a default that cannot be contained in one its asset purchase programme by 75 billion.
By the end of the year, the country and its banking system growth in euro area was in recession, exacerbating the our main economies in 2012 will be slow as In the United States, GDP growth slowed to debt problem.
households and governments continue to 1.7% compared with 3.0% in 2010.
Unlike the labour under substantial debt burdens.
UK, however, growth accelerated as the year Europes leaders avoided both a disorderly progressed.
Unemployment began to fall, default and a break-up of the euro area.
