Essential reading Our customers RBS Group serves over 30 million customers sophisticated and complex products through money and recycling those resources to in over 30 countries.
We serve a variety of financial markets.
people who need to buy or invest but who do customers, ranging from individuals to large not have ready access to cash borrowers.
corporates, and small businesses to We also provide international cash Our deposit products attract cash from savers.
We offer them a range of management, which includes services such as We use that to fund our lending.
For example: products to meet their differing needs.
credit card processing for retailers, payments services and international cash transfer.
credit cards and loans cover smaller lending Although individual products differ from each needs: and other, much of what we do is to provide one of Helping customers raise money mortgages and asset finance help to pay for four fundamental banking services.
Whether At its simplest, banking involves giving people larger purchases.
large or small, we help our customers to: who have cash today that they do not want to spend savers a safe place to put their manage their cash: obtain funds so that they can spend or invest today rather than wait until tomorrow: manage risks: and make better financial decisions.
Managing cash Small Cash management gives customers a Individuals convenient way to store, access and get a businesses return on their money.
For personal and small business customers, this means products like current and savings accounts, whilst larger organisations might want access to more Current accounts and overdrafts Savings and investment products Managing cash Invoice finance Residential mortgages, Commercial mortgages, business loans, asset consumer loans and credit cards finance and leasing Helping customers raise money Trade finance Fixed rate loans: insurance Managing risks Dedicated business managers, Personal and private banking advice: business seminars, start-up hotline MoneySense Providing financial advice RBS Group 2011 Larger organisations and governments can have Will inflation be higher or lower than we expect Providing financial advice more complex needs and for them we provide and how will that affect costs and revenues?
Our experienced personal, private and small access, for example, to capital markets.
business banking advisors are on hand to help We offer services that help customers to customers make prudent financial decisions.
Managing risks manage these risks: the first-time buyer taking People and businesses face financial risks a fixed-rate mortgage, the UK farmer receiving For large investors, we provide industry every day.
Will the interest rate on a loan or payments in euros, and the business leading fixed-income investment research.
How will exchange rates managing its inflation risks.
move for companies that trade internationally?
Governments Financial rms Corporates and other and banks institutions Providing direct investment opportunities in financial markets Cash management and payment systems Helping clients raise money in bond markets Large corporate and interbank lending Trade finance Hedging exchange rate risk Ination and interest rate hedging Investment research RBS Group 2011
