Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment When economies are emerging from recessions rooted in high levels of Judging that the pace of recovery was too slow to reduce unemployment debt and stresses in the financial system, growth is slower than in the sufficiently, the Federal Reserve tried to stimulate the economy in the typical recovery.
That was the experience of our major markets in 2011.
It third quarter with unconventional measures designed to push down is what we should expect in 2012 and beyond.
medium to long-term interest rates.
It also said it expected to keep the Fed Funds rate, its main policy rate, at its current low level at least until In the UK, growth weakened.
Total economic activity, as measured by mid-2013.
gross domestic product GDP, grew by 0.9% compared with 2.1% in 2010.
At the start of the year, expectations had been more positive, the Ireland emerged from three years of recession.
The export sector led consensus forecast for growth having been 2.1%.
Yet the year ended modest growth in the first half of the year, as it benefited from the boost with the economy contracting.
to competitiveness delivered by falling wages, and stronger demand in some of Irelands main markets.
However, the economy appears to have Unemployment rose sharply, from less than 8% in mid-year to 8.4% in shrunk again in the second half.
Wage growth was subdued and inflation reduced the spending power of earnings.
For Ireland, gross national product GNP is a better measure of peoples material well-being.
It reflects the income residents receive rather than In commercial property, values edged higher, finishing the year up 2%.
the value of the incomes generated in the country, an important Strong performance in prime markets, particularly central London was the distinction when there is a large foreign-owned sector that remits profits main source of gains.
Again, however, momentum slowed towards the overseas.
House prices dropped to a Housing market activity remained subdued.
Prices probably fell slightly point where they were close to 50% below their peak level at the year although the different measures disagree on the extent of the change.
Against this backdrop, the Bank of England continued its ultra-loose Looming over 2011 and prospects for 2012 was the likelihood that some monetary policy stance.
Despite persistently above-target inflation, euro area governments will not be able to repay in full monies they have interest rates remained unchanged at a record low of 0.5%, the Bank of borrowed.
Uncertainty about how this problem will be solved damaged England judging elevated inflation to be the result of temporary factors.
The policy prescribed for highly indebted countries, fiscal fact, its greater concern was that the weak economy would cause austerity, made their growth prospects worse because there are no inflation to be too low and in October, the Monetary Policy Committee compensating interest or exchange rate gains in a currency union.
By the announced that it would increase its asset purchase programme by 75 end of the year, the euro area was in recession, exacerbating the debt billion.
In the United States, GDP growth slowed to 1.7% compared with 3.0% in Europes leaders avoided both a disorderly default and a break-up of the 2010.
Unlike the UK, however, growth accelerated as the year euro area.
However, it will take political will and public support to manage progressed.
Unemployment began to fall, although at 8.5% in December the immediate risk of defaults and to tackle the root causes of the acute it was high compared with previous recoveries.
challenges that have accumulated since the establishment of the single currency in 1999.
Prices fell by around a further 4% and were almost a third below their peak level.
Sales volumes were subdued Absent the worst outcome for the euro area - a default that cannot be and an overhang of properties on which borrowers had defaulted contained in one country and its banking system - growth in our main remained.
economies in 2012 will be slow as households and governments continue to labour under substantial debt burdens.
