On 19 April 2011, the Group announced the proposed transfers of a Employee feedback substantial part of the business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
Every year since 1999, through the Your Feedback survey, employees in Subject to, among other matters, regulatory and other approvals and all our businesses have shared their thoughts about what its like working procedures, it is expected that the transfers will be implemented on a for RBS.
These insights inform what the Group needs to do to improve phased basis over a period ending 31 December 2013.
A large part of the the way it works, whether its a local issue or something that affects transfers is expected to have taken place by the end of 2012. everyone.
Apart from an opportunity to listen to employees, the survey also enables the Group to monitor levels of employee satisfaction and On 17 October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial engagement and how these compare with other companies.
part of the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank pursuant to Part VII of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Employee consultation The Group recognises employee representative organisations such as Approximately 98% of the issued share capital of RFS Holdings B. V. is trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
The Group has two European employee fora that provide elected Business divestments representatives with an opportunity to understand better its European To comply with EC State Aid requirements the Group agreed a series of operations.
restructuring measures to be implemented over a four year period from December 2009.
This supplements the measures in the strategic plan Diversity and inclusion previously announced by the Group.
These include divesting RBS During 2011, the Group executive renewed its commitment to make Insurance, 80.01% of Global Merchant Services largely completed in workplace policies, processes and experiences inclusive for staff, 2010 and substantially all of RBS Sempra Commodities JV business customers and stakeholders.
completed in 2010, as well as divesting the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, Inclusion is built into the recruitment process, positive action programmes along with the Direct SME customers across the UK.
developing talent, flexible working policies and support for ill-health and disability-related absence.
The Group continues to support disabled Employees people ensuring they have equal opportunities to recruitment, As at 31 December 2011, the Group employed over 146,800 employees employment, promotion and training.
full-time equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee related costs are included in Note 3 on the consolidated accounts.
The Group supports employee led networks such as Focused Women and Rainbow who support personal and career development through The Group operates certain employee share plans in which eligible networking and training events.
employees are able to participate and which align the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
This commitment to inclusion extends to supporting and participating in positive action programmes outside of the Group aimed at cultivating Employee learning and development future leaders including, An Inspirational Journey, the FTSE-100 crossThe Group maintains a strong commitment to providing all its employees company mentoring and Glass Ladder programmes.
The Group with the opportunity to grow through learning and development, which in maintains its involvement with external charitable networks and events turn helps to achieve business objectives and drive excellent customer such as Manchester Pride.
Employee Volunteering schemes make it easy for individuals and teams to give something back to their communities and make a real This approach to inclusion extends to the marketplace with the RBS difference.
Women in Business Ambassadors who support and guide more and more women to take the step of starting their own business.
Employee communication Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of communication Performance is monitored and reviewed at Group and divisional level and channels, at both divisional and Group level.
These channels provide RBS is supportive of the recommendations of Lord Davies' Report.
There access to news and information in a number of ways, including the are currently three female directors on the Board out of a total of 13 intranet, magazines, video, team meetings led by line managers, directors.
The Group expects to meet the aspirational target of 25 per briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees cent female Board representation in 2012.
As at 31 December 2011, 18 and employee representatives.
per cent of executives in the Group and 53 per cent of employees were female.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly communicate with, and encourage feedback from, employees across a Further details on the Board diversity policy can be found on page 262. range of channels.
