CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility CR Responsibility for CR lies with the Group environmental management system to help remains fundamental to the way CEO, who chairs the biannual Group collect and analyse data across RSA.
Executive Committee review of CR and the annual review by the Board.
Briefings Environmental, social and governance ESG Our progress in 2011 was recognised by and training on specific CR issues are provided risks are actively monitored and reviewed our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability on an ongoing basis.
CR targets and objectives regularly by the Board.
In 2011, the main risks Investor Index, retaining Platinum in the are included in the entire Group Executive identified included UK Carbon Reduction Times Top 100 Companies, being upgraded Committees individual objectives, which are Commitment legislation, environmental to a Super Sector Leader in the FTSE4Good also cascaded to direct reports and relevant impacts of shipping and flood risk in the UK.
Index and being listed on the Sunday Times business functions.
We set environmental improvement targets Best Green Companies Award 2011. at a country level and as a Group we achieved APPROACH AND GOVERNANCE 71% of 2011 targets.
In 2011, we achieved our CR SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGY Behaving responsibly and ethically has a long-term target to reduce our CO emissions 2 Our approach to CR is practical and focused positive impact on people, communities and in relation to our net written premium by on three key themes: road safety, social the environment in which we operate.
We have now extended the target to inclusion and the environment.
These issues committed to Doing the Right Thing, both as a 50% reduction against our 2006 baseline, have been identified as important by our individuals and as a company.
All employees to be achieved by 2020. customers, investors and employees.
Forum are assessed against our brand beliefs Bright for the Future, the sustainability charity, Ideas, Brilliant Service, Doing the Right Thing, Further information on our approach, carries out an annual assessment to check Getting the Job Done and Positive People to governance and policies can be found at we are focusing on the right issues.
ensure that this forms part of the performance www.
com rsagroup en and remuneration structure at RSA.
 We incorporate these key material issues into our strategic priorities.
For example, The principles by which we operate our CUSTOMERS our work on flood mapping helps us identify business and our brand beliefs underpin our As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping the appropriate prices for the risk, driving commitment to our customers, staff and other people and businesses recover when the sustainable earnings, while also allowing stakeholders and our Corporate Responsibility worst happens.
Helping customers get their us to prioritise our claims approach.
The CR policies form an essential part of our lives back on track is our first priority.
During development of our renewable energy broader risk and governance framework.
2011, our business helped customers recover business has also been a key factor in Every country is required to confirm quarterly from flooding in many locations around the delivering targeted profitable growth and that they comply with our CR, environment, world including Ireland, Denmark and Jeddah.
establishing RSA as a leading Renewables charity and human rights policies.
The work we do on with the policy framework is reviewed by the In Canada, we experienced 99% customer environmental management to reduce Group Executive Committee and Group satisfaction levels thanks to fast track claims travel, paper consumption, energy and Board in regular CR updates.
handling, specialised claims and empathy water usage not only helps us meet training for employees, coupled with Voice environmental targets but also reduces Our CR data, processes and external of the Customer telephone surveys which costs and supports our continued focus reporting are verified by our CR auditors give customers the opportunity to provide on operational excellence.
ISAE3000 with an extra audit of the Groups carbon footprint GHG Protocol Our commitment to customers was by Ecometrica.
We use a web-based underlined when our UK business won 34 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Claims Initiative of the Year for its industry leading Home Claims Customer Tracker at the Insurance Times Awards 2011.
The For more details see www.
com innovative tracker shows where customers are in the claims journey, prompting us to contact them throughout their claim and WWF RSA ARCTIC CHALLENGE to line up suppliers in advance, enabling us In 2011, we focused our efforts on doing what we can as an organisation to tackle the to deliver a smoother, more efficient service.
challenges that climate change brings.
We launched a new initiative to raise the profile of our WWF partnership and to bring it to life.
Product innovation is also key to our success.
Across the business we have created tailored The Arctic Challenge saw over 10,000 of our employees in 33 countries taking part in and relevant products for specific customer a competition to win the opportunity to travel to the Arctic to see at first-hand the impact groups and innovative insurance solutions of climate change.
The competition challenged teams to reduce their carbon footprint by in response to social and environmental walking and cycling rather than driving, donating and fundraising for charity and developing changes, including ideas to reduce our environmental impact.
In Canada, our green home endorsement policy ensures that any repairs are now The results were impressive with over three billion steps walked, 6,600 hours of volunteering carried out with environmentally friendly given and over 100,000 raised for charity.
The green ideas being implemented in 2012 have and healthy materials the potential to save around 15,000 tonnes of carbon and up to 600,000 in costs.
Our UK business is actively working to minimise waste in our claims supply chain through the use of recycled car parts and repairing electrical goods in the home In Denmark, we worked with existing RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT We continue to focus on developing suppliers to launch a new energy efficient The bulk of our UK equity assets continue employees at all levels through programmes window replacement scheme, helping to be managed by F&C Asset Management.
such as the Executive Development customers to save energy and reduce F&C has one of the largest Governance and Programme for senior leaders, the their CO emissions.
Sustainable Investment teams in Europe, Leadership Development Programme for 2 enabling it to follow a policy of active team leaders, Fast Track for high potential BUSINESS PARTNERS engagement across its portfolios on individuals and the Graduate Programme.
We work closely with our business partners environmental, social and governance issues.
Our Graduate Programme involves and intermediaries to grow a successful Last year, F&C engaged with 29 companies developing long term charitable initiatives business while reducing our collective on a wide range of issues from climate change which link to our business as well as tackling environmental and social impact.
In the UK, to labour standards across our portfolios.
responsible business dilemmas including we asked a number of our suppliers about procuring goods and product development.
their management of CR issues and engaged in EMPLOYEES active dialogue to improve standards.
We also A sustainable business needs to attract, Engagement remains an important focus, held our second supplier workshop to discuss develop and reward talented people, as well to encourage employees to participate in our approach to CR and what we expect from as making them accountable for their actions.
charity committees, green teams and suppliers.
In Scandinavia, we re-launched our All employees are assessed against our Brand wellbeing programmes.
supplier codes of conduct, ensuring strong Beliefs, including Doing the Right Thing which action on environmental and social issues.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In the UK, we are one of the first employers to achieve a 40% reduction in CO emissions ROAD SAFETY 2 to comply with the Living Wage campaign relative to our net written premiums by 2020 In 2011, we extended our work on Road nationally for our employees and suppliers.
We launched a new The campaign encourages employers to eyesight campaign in the UK, encouraging pay employees on the minimum wage a We are working actively with WWF to stronger regulation around the need to have rate in accordance with the cost of living.
integrate environmental risk considerations compulsory eyesight tests for driving licence into our business.
This campaign focused on the UK CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE partnership spanning five countries we focus political party conferences and around 5,000 ENVIRONMENT on key issues relevant to our business.
These employees across eight of our UK offices.
As an insurer, any change in the intensity include marine risks through our shipping and or frequency of extreme weather aquaculture businesses, renewable energy Our child safety programme was extended conditions can have a significant impact and the impact on customers of water leaks in the UK to another 40 primary schools on our customers and our business.
We in their property and flooding.
For further nominated by our employees.
Our Chilean remain committed to leading the debate information visit www.
com road safety programme continues to help on climate change and collaborating with over 30,000 children per year.
In early 2012, a range of forums, including the insurance COMMUNITY STRATEGY the programme was extended to Bahrain working group of the United Nations Our community strategy remains focused on and Singapore for the first time.
Environment Programme for Financial the issues that are important to our customers Institutions and the ClimateWise initiative.
and where we feel we can achieve most High visibility in the dark is also a priority for through our skills and experience.
many of our countries when the clocks change.
Our operations in the UK, Ireland and We continued our long running reflector Group Corporate Centre remain carbon In 2011, we gave over 2.6m in charitable programmes in Scandinavia and Lithuania, neutral, offsetting their equivalent emissions donations 2010: 2.4m, with over 17,000 handing out over 170,000 high visibility vests in renewable energy projects certified volunteer hours 2010: 58,000 donated and reflectors.
Our UK business also launched to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
by around 5,200 volunteers 2010: 13,160. reflector programmes for the first time with Our commitment to reducing our 2010 included a significant increase in cyclists in Manchester and Peterborough environmental impact is on track volunteer numbers and volunteers hours and, through our pet insurance business, we due to our 300 years birthday celebrations.
distributed high visibility coats and collars for pets.
Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions 2.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 3.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 36 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Social inclusion RSA employees from all over the Group are actively involved with poverty For more details see www.
com alleviation, education and crime reduction initiatives.
Across Latin America, staff made donations to orphanages and helped build WWF PARTNERSHIP homes for the homeless.
In the UK, over In 2009, we launched our partnership with WWF across the UK, Canada, Sweden, Denmark 100 employees signed up to help to mentor and China.
Focusing on the risks of environmental change, RSA has been supporting conservation teenagers aspiring to a career in business projects relevant to our business, developing new products and engaging our employees and from underprivileged backgrounds.
external stakeholders on the environment.
We are focusing on three key issues: Across the Group, we also launched our Water Global Charitable Programme to support Flooding remains a key issue for RSA because the increased frequency or intensity of rain has employees charitable work and local a direct impact on our customers.
With increased pressure on flood defence budgets, insurers communities.
The programme is aimed need to find environmentally sensitive and cost effective solutions.
In 2009, we started work at helping improve employee engagement, on a river restoration project at Mayesbrook Park in east London and have now completed supporting local community organisations the flood alleviation phase.
Slowing down the river, and re-creating the natural meander and and promoting RSA in the community.
floodplain demonstrates a cost-effective, natural solution.
We are also working to conserve Employees anywhere within RSA can now water as a business.
Water escapes in commercial and domestic property are a major source apply for matched funding, a charitable grant, of loss and environmental impact.
Through research with WWF we are making the business or a charitable secondment lasting up to case to save water and protect customers.
Marine Environment As one of the largest Marine insurers, we are acutely aware of increasing pressures on fishing, During 2011, we supported a number shipping and resource extraction and we are working to improve the sustainability of our seas.
of environmental volunteering projects In Canada, we are working with WWF to establish marine protection areas to help safeguard including planting trees and cleaning up the long-term future of the fishing industry and in Scandinavia, we are collaborating with polluted beaches in the Middle East.
In the governments to better manage the commercial use of the Baltic Sea.
RSA joined a group UK, teams helped at local nature reserves of global marine industry leaders to launch the Sustainable Shipping Initiative SSI which will and parks, with volunteers preparing a park focus on shaping regulations to improve safety and minimise the impact on the environment.
in London to be the site of an urban river The SSI tackles issues such as climate change, piracy and carbon taxes.
We will be working restoration project with WWF.
to ensure that risk reduction plays a key role in commitments for the industry.
We launched the Arctic Challenge in 2011 Renewable energy which saw over 10,000 of our employees Governments are placing an increased focus on renewable energy to combat climate change.
actively participate to reduce their carbon As a leading insurer of this risk, our Global Renewables business is uniquely placed to help footprint, develop the best business green the transition to a low carbon economy.
In China, we have been working with WWF and idea and fundraise for WWF or other a range of stakeholders to develop renewable energy usage and energy efficiency.
The campaign was aimed we produced research in China and the UK to raise awareness of the importance of insurance at increasing awareness of WWF and to grow the renewable energy industry.
Together with WWF, further research in 2012 will the link to insurance risk.
help make the case for renewable energy and develop our knowledge of new technologies.
For further information on Corporate Responsibility please email corporate.
com or to see the full Corporate Responsibility Report, visit our website www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40 Board of Directors 42 Executive team 44 Directors and corporate governance report 57 Remuneration report CONSTRUCTION, ENGINEERING AND RENEWABLE ENERGY WITH OUR FOUNDATIONS GOING BACK TO THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION, PROVIDING INSURANCE SOLUTIONS TO THE CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING SECTOR HAS ALWAYS BEEN A CORNERSTONE OF OUR BUSINESS.
As this sector has evolved, so have we.
With the recent emergence of the Renewable Energy industry, RSA was the first insurer to launch a global Renewable Energy business to support their insurance needs, and today we are the market leaders.
We remain at the forefront in these industries, covering everything from bio energy developments to major transportation infrastructures.
We provide instant access to the right specialists who have a real understanding of the challenges our customers face and can tailor insurance products to match their individual needs.
We have around 200 dedicated Construction and Engineering experts in 30 offices around the world.
They provide specialist insurance and risk management services across construction, facilities management, engineering design and manufacturing through our extensive range of insurance products including cover for property, machinery and tools, legal liability as well as employees liability.
Within the Renewable Energy sector, RSA provides insurance across the full lifecycle, from start up and shipment of material, to construction and then operational cover once the facility is up and running.
We provide insurance covers for the breadth of Renewable Energy technologies, including wind energy onshore and offshore, solar energy, small hydro, bio energy and wave & tidal.
Our teams of people across the world are supported by our Centres of Excellence, which bring together the combined knowledge of specialist underwriters, risk engineers and claims experts with specific industry experience.
The combination of our depth of knowledge and global reach has established us as a market leader.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 39
