Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 33 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is important to Schroders Oversight and we have policies and schemes in place to ensure During 2011, Alan Brown chaired the Corporate that the Group acts in a socially responsible way in its Responsibility Committee.
When Alan Brown steps day-to-day operations.
down from the Board at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Philip Mallinckrodt will take on this We seek to: responsibility.
This Committee oversees employee, Attract and develop the best people: environmental and community involvement issues and is responsible for the development of policies Minimise our environmental footprint: oncorporate responsibility and their implementation Support the communities in which we operate: throughout the Group.
Be transparent in our operations and reporting: and Our approach to corporate responsibility is built around four main areas: Encourage and support these principles in the companies in which we invest.
Marketplace: Schroders is an index component of both the Dow Workplace: Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones Environment: and Sustainability Europe Index.
We are also included in the FTSE4Good Global Index, which identifies Community.
companies that meet globally recognised corporate We publish an annual Corporate Responsibility responsibility standards.
Report that describes in more detail our activities As a major investor, we recognise that how we behave inthese areas.
This is available on our website at can influence other companies.
not only with our own activities, but we also monitor the activities of the companies in which we invest.
We develop and maintain an ongoing dialogue with all of our stakeholders, including: Shareholders: Clients: Employees: Regulators: Non-governmental organisations: The wider community: and The companies in which we invest.
Our behaviour is influenced by our core values ofintegrity, passion, innovation, teamwork and excellence.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs033-036.
indd 33 13 03 2012 13:23 34 Corporate responsibility continued Marketplace investors.
It outlines how we integrate an analysis of ESG issues into our investment process and explains Corporate engagement is integral to our investment process.
It allows us to understand the sustainable our intention to engage with companies to enhance our ESG understanding.
This policy meets the value of the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
During 2011, our equity fund managers Association of British Insurers Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment and endorses the and analysts attended over 15,000 meetings with companies to discuss issues such as financial Code on the Responsibilities of Institutional Investors issued by the Institutional Investor Committee.
We are performance, strategy and management.
also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for We are committed to the UK Stewardship Code Responsible Investment, which serves to reinforce published by the Financial Reporting Council in July ourcommitment to integrating ESG issues into our 2010 and we outline on our website how we comply investment decision making.
We are a founding member of the Institutional Our global Investment and Corporate Governance Investors Group on Climate Change, signatories Policy sets out our approach to engaging with to the Bali Communiqu issued by the Corporate companies in which we hold equity investments and Leadership Group on Climate Change and a member our approach to conflicts of interest.
We will engage of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our investment and normally vote on any issue affecting the long-term process incorporates ESG research into the corporate sustainable value of a company in which we invest.
responsibility performance of companies and we Our focus will primarily be on issues material to the engage with companies where their ESG practices value of the companys shares.
fall short of acceptable standards.
During the year, we voted at over 5,000 company During 2011, we engaged in dialogue with 121 meetings.
We aim to vote at all company meetings companies on specific ESG-related issues.
Overall, where we have an equity holding and will vote on all we voted on 81 shareholder resolutions of a social, resolutions except where there are onerous ethical or environmental nature.
We also utilise the Ethical Investment Research Service to screen investible universes in order to Resolutions voted on per cent.
reflect clients values in their investment portfolios.
09 88 At the end of 2011, we had 11.3 billion of assets under management that had some form of ethical 10 85 criteria attached to them 2010: 8.3 billion.
11 88 Workplace Voting reports are provided quarterly to Institutional The Group aims to be an employer of choice and clients and we also publish details of our voting record hasmore than 2,900 employees across 26 countries.
on our website after a suitable period to ensure that We work to ensure that our employment policies the publication of voting does not influence the reflect best practice globally, and that our employees outcome of any company discussions.
We believe understand the strategic aims and objectives of the that effective engagement with management should, Group and are clear about their role in achieving if at all possible, remain confidential since publicity them.
We communicate regularly with employees can frequently entrench positions rather than worldwide, and utilise employee meetings to facilitate resolve issues.
the exchange of views with senior management and discussion of the progress made by the Group.
Environmental, social and governance Employees are provided with information on matters As a leading asset manager, we also recognise our of interest to them and, in the UK, an employee forum responsibility to engage with companies to assess represents employee views to management.
not only the financial risks but also the environmental, social and governance ESG risks that can affect Remuneration long-term value.
Our approach to remuneration is explained in the Remuneration report.
We enable our employees to Our Global Equity Responsible Investment Policy personalise elements of their benefits package to suit outlines the approach we take as responsible equity their own needs and ambitions.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 35 High ethical standards The Group is committed to creating a work We promote high ethical standards.
Through our environment free of harassment and bullying, where internal whistle-blowing process employees can everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
A policy raise concerns about behaviour or decisions that are is in place to assist the Group and our employees in perceived to be unethical.
Personal securities trading treating everyone fairly regardless of their age, gender, by employees is subject to a clearly defined set of race, sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief.
Employees are not permitted to solicit This policy is monitored periodically to judge its or accept any inducements that are likely to conflict effectiveness and will be updated in accordance with with their duties.
Training is provided in relation to changes in the law.
Where possible, we capture the these issues and in relation to money laundering, ethnic, age and gender composition of our existing terrorist finance, data protection and treating workforce and those applying for jobs and the number customers fairly.
The Audit and Risk Committee of people within each of these groups.
Personal development Equal opportunities Our performance management process comprises We are committed to providing equal opportunities in an annual performance appraisal against agreed employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination objectives and our core values.
Output from this and we expect our workforce to reflect the diversity performance process is used to inform decisions on of the many communities in which we operate.
We remuneration, career development and progression.
recognise that through the attraction and retention of a diverse workforce we are better able to understand As part of creating a high-performing organisation, we the needs of our clients.
encourage all of our employees to fulfil their potential.
We provide our employees worldwide with access to A flexible working policy has been developed to a range of training and development opportunities recognise the diverse needs of employees in managing that are relevant to our business.
the responsibilities of their work and personal lives.
We believe that achieving an effective balance in these Health and safety areas is beneficial to both the Group and the individual.
The health and welfare of our employees are very It is the Groups policy to give fair consideration to all important to us.
We promote high standards of health applications for employment received, having regard and safety at work and have a global health and safety to particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group gives policy implementing UK standards which we expect full and fair consideration to applications for all of our offices to follow, unless their local legislation employment from disabled persons.
If employees requires higher standards.
Senior management in become disabled, employment continues wherever each location is responsible for the implementation possible, with retraining given if necessary.
purposes of training, career development and progression, all employees are treated fairly with other employees.
Corporate engagement is integral to our investment process.
indd 35 13 03 2012 00:35 36 Corporate responsibility continued Environment employee, per year.
In 2011, we donated 1.2 million We are committed to minimising the negative 2010: 1.1 million, including discretionary, one-off environmental impacts of our operations through donations totalling 300,000, to charities involved with good management and by committing to continuous social welfare in the UK.
improvement in our environmental performance.
Charitable giving m Energy usage 09 0.6 Energy usage is one of the most significant ways in which our operations directly affect the environment.
10 1.1 In 2008, we set out an aim to reduce our energy 11 1.2 usage by 15 per cent.
In 2011, we remained accredited by the Carbon Payroll-giving schemes are operated in a number of our Trust Standard in recognition of the reduction in our offices.
of carbon footprint since 2007. employees opted to give in this way, and charitable We have used the latest best practice 2011 Guidelines matching donations by the firm of 250,000 2010: to DEFRA DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion 220,000 were made.
We again received the Payroll Factors for Company Reporting to calculate our CO 2 Giving Quality Mark Gold Award from the Charities Aid emissions in London for the past four years.
our carbon output has reduced by 4 per cent.
reflecting our continued investment in energy efficiency measures.
Volunteering To underpin our focus on employee community Energy usage tonnes involvement, employees are able to take up to 15 hours of paid leave per year for volunteering services.
09 4.994 In London, Schroders has been a corporate sponsor 10 4,653 of the Hackney Schools Mentoring Programme, 11 4,447 established by the East London Business Alliance and Hackney Learning Partnerships, for the past five We monitor other environmental measures and years.
Our employees mentor 14 and 15-year-old moreinformation can be found on our website at students in the London Borough of Hackney, www.
increasing their self-confidence, allowing them to gain experience of the working environment and Community broadening their aspirations.
London employees We encourage all employees to participate in the have also volunteered to help other charities in 2011 community and in charitable causes.
We believe that including FareShare, Crisis and Inspire!
the Education involvement is valuable to both the community and the Business Partnership for Hackney.
Overseas, our individual as it can assist in personal development.
employees participate in a variety of local volunteering schemes.
Our approach to charitable giving focuses on employee choice, supplemented by discretionary donations.
The Group matches employee charity donations and sponsorship up to 2,400 per Our approach to charitable giving focuses on employee choice.
indd 36 13 03 2012 13:25 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 4 Governance Directors profiles 38 Corporate governance report 40 Nominations Committee report 52 Audit and Risk Committee report 54 Remuneration report 58 Directors report 72 Statement of Directors responsibilities 74 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs037-044.
