34 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sustainability review Sector leading performance We have developed six positive outcomes that define the key areas of Making tomorrow a better place focus for our 2020 strategy and build on our sustainability achievements to date.
Our services will help Carillions customers work towards carbon neutrality, so together we become the lowest carbon producers in our respective sectors.
We will work with our customers and suppliers to be best in class in reducing waste, managing the use of water and raw materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
We will make a positive contribution to the development of our local communities, enabling them to thrive and prosper.
Provide better prospects for our people.
We will improve the prospects of our people by offering opportunities for learning and development and create safe, healthy places to work.
Lead the way in our sector.
We will be recognised as the benchmark in sustainability and innovation, in turn driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Through our sector leadership and role in creating a more sustainable economy, we will increase shareholder value.
Managing sustainability Our commitment to sustainability is driven by our Board, supported by a Sustainability Committee.
This Committee is chaired by our Group Chief Executive, Richard Howson, and includes our Group Finance Director and a number of senior managers.
The Committee also benefits from expert advice from two external members, Dame Julia Cleverdon, Vice President In this section of our Annual Report we provide a summary of Business in the Community BITC and Special Advisor to the Princes of what we are doing to make our business more sustainable.
Charities and Jonathon Porritt, Founder Director of Forum for the Future.
A more detailed account will be provided in our 2011 Sustainability Report, which will be published on our The Sustainability Committee is supported by a Group Sustainability website www.
Forum of our senior business leaders and chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer, Tom Robinson.
The Forum informs the development Our sustainability strategy of our sustainability strategy, shares best practice and ensures the effective During 2011, we launched a new sustainability strategy.
After reviewing dissemination of our sustainability strategy and policies to each business our business we engaged with stakeholders and worked with Forum for unit.
All our businesses have a sustainability plan and objectives, which the Future to develop this strategy which we introduced to our employees form an integral part of their annual business plans.
Since 2003, we have during Carillions Sustainability Week, which coincides with World organised an annual Sustainability Week to coincide with World Environment Day in June.
In 2011, this event focused on launching our new 2020 sustainability strategy and on raising internal awareness of our Our 2020 strategy supports our business strategy and growth plans for new targets and vision.
We produced seven videos to explain our strategy the remainder of this decade, by effectively managing the sustainability and thousands of employees joined in, as well as some of their clients and risks and opportunities for Carillion.
We want to be recognised as a suppliers, and went the extra mile to make the launch of our Sustainability leading sustainable business and the leading sustainable support services Strategy a resounding success.
In total, we received over 300 reports of company.
activities supporting the launch from across the Group.
Our new strategy focuses on sharing knowledge and working closely Our performance with customers and suppliers to deliver sustainable solutions that reach The Groups sustainability targets for 2011 were based on 20 specific and beyond our immediate operations.
We will consciously drive this strategy measurable targets.
In order to drive continuous improvement we set externally, helping our customers to meet their sustainability objectives, demanding targets and our performance against them is independently while contributing to the creation of a low-carbon economy and verified.
A full report on what we have achieved will be in our 2011 supporting vibrant, healthy communities.
We understand that to be Sustainability Report, which will be published in April 2012. recognised as a leader, we have to manage the impacts and opportunities of our projects, services and supply chains.
In the 2011 UK Sunday Times Best Green Company awards, Carillion was ranked in the Top 10.
Carillion is one of only 15 companies to remain in We believe that championing sustainability is critical to the long-term the Best Green Companies top 60 list since it started four years ago.
success of our business and this strategy will help us to maintain our We also achieved a Platinum ranking in Business in the Communitys position as sector leader.
Corporate Responsibility Index for the third year running, with a score Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 As a member of the Business Carillion staff gave the UK Action on the Homelessness Prime Minister, the Rt.
Board, we celebrated the 10th David Cameron MP and birthday of the programme the Netherlands Prime with the organisations Minister, Mark Rutte, a tour president, the Prince of Wales.
of the Library of Birmingham project with commentary on its design and construction, as well as the employment and training benefits that the project has brought to the people of Birmingham.
The Corporate Responsibility Index involves a detailed, We believe that by engaging with community and charity groups, we independent assessment of Carillions sustainability strategy, management increase the morale and motivation of our workforce while delivering processes and performance.
Such assessments enable us to benchmark tangible benefits to the communities in which we work.
We are delighted our performance against other companies, including those in different to support the diverse and enterprising volunteering efforts of our market sectors.
workforce across many different sectors, which also add value to our business through the development of skills and community engagement.
Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index and in 2011 In line with this, we have processes in place to allow employees the we submitted a full response to the Carbon Disclosure Project and were opportunity to use their working time to support external initiatives.
included in the FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time with a disclosure of 82 out of 100 Performance rating B.
In 2011, we Providing better prospects for our people also achieved the Certified Emissions Measurement and Reduction Carillion is a business built on the talents and dynamism of our people.
Scheme CEMARS accreditation for the first time.
We value their diversity, encourage them to fulfil their potential, and make the safeguarding of their health and safety our highest priority, which we Carillion won the Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award in 2011, describe in more detail on pages 19, 40 and 41 of this report.
in the large company category.
This represents a huge achievement as over 100 entries were received from 12 countries across the Middle East Carillion recognises that one of its greatest sustainability impacts is the region in over 15 different sectors.
In addition, Carillion won the following provision of employment, both within our business directly and also awards at the Construction Week Awards held in Dubai in 2011: through our sub-contractors and suppliers.
Where feasible, we are committed to sourcing our workforce locally in the areas where we work, Corporate Social Responsibility of the Year Award for Sustainability helping to improve economic prospects, reduce the carbon footprint of Week, which saw our people spending over 4,000 hours involved in our activities, provide skills training for the local population and support community engagement activities in the Middle East.
Construction Sustainability Award for the practical implementation of our new sustainability strategy through our Sustainability Action Teams.
In 2011 we launched the S Factor competition across Carillion.
Contestants have to submit information about their sustainability Our joinery workshop in Muscat, Oman was also highly commended for achievements.
They then go through a public vote within Carillion and achieving Forest Stewardship Council FSC Chain of Custody certification.
the final contestants make personal presentations to a panel of judges who select category winners and an overall winner.
The 2011 overall In 2011, as well as continuing to set specific sustainability targets for each winner was the Library of Birmingham team who achieved over 100 local of our business units and for the Group as a whole, we focused on the employment places with local subcontractors with at least 50 per cent following important specific areas namely: gaining full time roles on this project.
They were awarded 1,000 that they donated to the Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
The competition We launched our new 2020 targets that start to be monitored during was a great success and the 240 entries received showed the level of 2012. engagement in sustainability across the Group.
We developed a Sustainability Leadership Plan SLP to help our business units deliver their targets and establish a baseline to measure and Protecting our environment report against our 2020 Sustainability KPIs.
Across all our operations, protecting the environment is fundamental We developed a new Community Needs Plan and revised our to the way we work.
We seek to manage our environmental impacts Biodiversity Toolkit, which will be implemented in 2012. by using natural resources efficiently, sourcing responsibly, protecting We appointed Tom Robinson as Chief Sustainability Officer.
This is a biodiversity and reducing waste and by helping our customers do new post and marks our commitment to the delivery of our 2020 the same.
We set up a baseline against which to measure all of our water All our UK and Middle East and North Africa MENA operations are consumption.
certified to the ISO 14001 international standard.
Carillions Joint Venture, We enabled over 148 candidates against our target of 100, to gain TWD Roads Management Inc. in Canada, is also certified to ISO 14001. valuable two-week work placements in our businesses and supported This ISO standard requires formal environmental management systems, their re-introduction to employment through the Business Action on including specific policies, plans, registers, training and communication Homelessness programme.
Supporting sustainable communities As part of the 2020 vision, our biodiversity risk assessments and plans Vibrant, thriving communities are the foundation on which our business have been reviewed so that restoration activities are now considered.
We believe that by supporting the sustainable development of the We work not only to protect the biodiversity of sites and neighbouring communities in and around the areas in which we operate, we are helping land across the projects in which we are involved, but to enhance it.
to secure the long-term wellbeing of our current and future employees, Our people in MENA often get involved in beach clean-up campaigns customers and suppliers.
and the Carillion Natural Habitats Fund has supported 54 Wildlife Trust projects in the UK since 2001, with donations totalling over 335,000.
Working with organisations such as Business Action on Homelessness and The Princes Trust, Carillion has offered training placements to 174 people In 2011, we set a target for all permanent UK contracts and projects to over the past year, including the long-term unemployed and ex-offenders.
capture water consumption data and keep monitoring this every year in order to have reduced our water consumption by 25 per cent by 2015.
As we have every year since 2001, in 2011 we gave at least 1% of our pre-tax profits to charitable and community causes through a combination of cash and in-kind donations including time spent by Carillion employees.
Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us 36 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sustainability review continued Enabling low carbon economies We are helping our customers work towards carbon neutrality, so that UK Constructions Simon Dingle together we become the lowest carbon producers in our respective Operations Director, Sinead sectors.
Enabling low-carbon economies is one of the six positive Mackenzie Project Manager outcomes of our 2020 sustainability strategy.
for Employment and Training and Michael Winhall We calculate and publish details of our carbon footprint annually.
In 2010, Sustainability & Carillion registered with the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Communications Manager Energy Efficiency Scheme, which applies mandatory emission cuts to were crowned overall winners large commercial and public sector organisations.
We installed smart of the Carillion S Factor 2011. meters across our sites to provide instant, accurate measurements of the electricity, gas and oil used to power our offices, site accommodation and construction projects.
In 2011, we were ranked in the top 10 per cent of the CRC league table.
We also submit data to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP an independent, not-for-profit organisation that aims to increase transparency and promote climate change data as a factor in business, Adam Green, Managing policy and investment decisions.
Companies are scored on their climate Director of Carillion UK change disclosure and high scores indicate good internal data Construction, presenting management and understanding of the climate change issues affecting Crown House Technologies the company.
We achieved an impressive score of 82 out of 100 and with the 2011 Carillion Supply featured in the 2011 FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
With the acquisition of Eaga plc, now called Carillion Energy Services CES, we became the UKs largest independent energy services provider, with major new opportunities in the energy services market.
With sector-leading expertise in energy efficiency solutions, we are in a position to enhance the scope of our integrated services offering for existing and new customers.
Home energy improvements provided by CES are already helping households to reduce their fuel costs and live more comfortably.
The Warm Front Scheme, being delivered by CES, provides grants of up to 3,500 to install a package of heating and insulation measures to help The Al Futtaim Carillion team at people vulnerable to fuel poverty keep warm and manage their fuel bills.
our New York University Installing loft or cavity wall insulation and energy-efficient heating systems project in Abu Dhabi pulled out can cut household fuel bills by between 300 and 600 a year.
all the stops and organised 44 different activities to celebrate CES was recognised for its low-carbon energy housing solutions at the Sustainability Week.
Microgeneration UK Awards in June 2011.
Our 2011 Sustainability Report will provide more information on our carbon reduction programme when it is published on our website in April 2012.
Leading the way: customers and suppliers Carillion develops strong relationships with customers and suppliers, based on mutual respect and a focus on sustainable practices.
We are a customer-focused business, providing innovative, sustainable solutions that deliver long-term added value across a broad range of sectors.
Throughout the lifecycle of a project, our business units ask for feedback In 2011, Carillion won two prestigious awards the Arabia on the levels of service we provide and we conduct regular customer Corporate Social Responsibility Award and the Construction Week satisfaction surveys to assess our performance.
We use an independent Sustainability Award with both citing the pioneering efforts of specialist company to conduct these surveys to encourage honest our joinery workshop in Oman.
We also received a Special feedback.
Sustainability questions are included in these surveys so we can Commendation by the Oman Green Awards judging panel.
monitor customer perception of our sustainability performance.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Positive outcomes that define the key areas of focus Vision Objectives Our services will help Carillions customers work towards carbon Enable low-carbon economies neutrality, so together we become the lowest carbon producers in our respective sectors.
We will work with our customers and suppliers to be best in class in Protect the environment reducing waste, managing use of water and raw materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
We will make a positive contribution to the development of our local Support sustainable communities communities, enabling them to thrive and prosper.
We will improve the prospects of our people by offering opportunities Provide better prospects for our people for learning and development and create safe, healthy places to work.
We will be recognised as the benchmark in sustainability and Lead the way in our sector innovation, in turn driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Through our sector leadership and role in creating a more sustainable Building a successful business economy, we will increase shareholder value.
We assess the feedback in respect of each of our business units and if we are not meeting the high standards our customers expect from us, In 2011, we launched the Carillion Supply Chain Sustainability Champions we devise action plans and follow robust procedures to address any Award as part of Sustainability Week a chance for suppliers to tell us issues swiftly and effectively to ensure customer satisfaction.
We about the sustainable initiative they are most proud of in their business.
continually seek to take customer service delivery to new levels, and Focusing on the six positive outcomes of our 2020 sustainability strategy, Carillion Facilities Management CFM was the proud winner of the British we had an overwhelming response of high-quality submissions from a Institute for Facilities Management Award for Innovation in Customer very wide range of suppliers.
After much deliberation, Crown House Service in 2011.
Technologies was selected as the inaugural Carillion Supply Chain Sustainability Champion, for its innovative Learning and Development Our relationships with thousands of suppliers all over the world include Programme, which features presentations by key suppliers, in-house multinational organisations, small and medium sized enterprises SMEs, experts and guest speakers on important topics recorded in front of a individual suppliers and third-sector organisations.
As with all our live audience.
stakeholders, the relationships we have with our suppliers are built upon our values and we expect our suppliers to demonstrate the same high standards of corporate responsibility as Carillion.
We also have specific supply chain principles, such as safety, delivering quality products and services, putting customers first and minimising costs by developing innovative ways of working.
Financial statements governance OUR PERFORMANCE what we do about us
