Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing the business in a way that considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We understand that responsible management is increasingly important to all our stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION The St. Jamess Place Foundation was established in 1992, in the same year that the Group began trading.
Since then, the Foundation has become one of the most successful company charities in the UK.
The Foundation has operated as an unincorporated trust since 1992.
However, due to the substantial increase in the size and scope of the charity, the assets and liabilities of the trust were transferred to a new company limited by guarantee, with effect from 1January2012 and the trust is in the process of being wound up.
The board of the new company, the St.  charity number 1144606, comprises the four Executive Directors as well as Malcolm Cooper-Smith, Hugh Gladman and Mike Wilson as Chairman, pictured opposite.
While the Board of the Foundation is responsible for all activities carried out by the Foundation, many of the decisions are delegated to a Committee made up of representatives from each office in the UK, which reviews Mike Wilson This report provides information on how we manage Chairman grant applications and makes recommendations to the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at St. Jamess Place St. Jamess Place Board about grant making and other issues.
Foundation and identifies the key areas where we have made a positive impact during the year.
The Foundation is a grant-making charity with a difference.
It relies on the support it receives from the We are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues to be entire SJP community, including employees, Partners, included in the FTSE4GOOD Index which comprises suppliers, fund managers and other third parties connected companies that meet globally recognised corporate social to the Group.
Over 80% of all the Partners and employees responsibility criteria.
make regular monthly donations out of their income or salary to the Foundation and also help to raise funds from CSR GOVERNANCE events and sponsored activities.
Since 1999, St. Jamess St. Jamess Places CSR programme is overseen by the Place has matched the funds raised by its Partners and staff, Executive Committee of the Board, comprising the four pound for pound, helping to raise over 23.0 million since Executive Directors, who in turn, delegate the 1992.
In 2011, the Foundation had its most successful year, management of some of the Groups CSR activities to raising in excess of 3 million and donating 3.4 million to specialist sub-committees, comprising senior employees UK registered charities operating both in the UK and and Partners from across the business.
In addition, the Foundation has conditionally Groups charitable activities are assisted by the Foundation committed a further 2.9 million to various charities in Committee and environmental matters are considered by a 2012 to 2014. separate working group.
Further details of the work of these Committees are set out in this Report.
38 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review 8.0 6.0 Income Since 2002 The St. JamessPlace Foundation Giving Programme 2011 3,060,000 Since the outset, the Foundation has been keen to support 2010 2,714,000 small to medium-sized charities that can benefit substantially from relatively small grants.
The rapid growth 2009 2,650,000 in the funds raised has meant that the Foundation has been 2008 2,454,000 able to extend its support in recent years through a Major Grants Programme, donating anything from 10,000 to 2007 2,440,000 exceptionally in excess of 1 million to medium-sized 2006 1,882,000 charities.
2005 1,653,000 In 2011, the Foundation made awards to 464 UK charities, 2004 1,497,000 broken down as follows: 2003 1,188,000 Number of Amount 2002 1,092,000 2011 Awards Awards Donated Million The St. Jamess Place Community Receives Major Grants grants above Government Recognition 10,000 44 1.5 We are particularly proud of the fact that more than 80% Small Grants up to 10,000 118 1.2 of our staff and members of the St. Jamess Place Local Office Grants small Partnership make monthly contributions to the Foundation one off grants of no more than from their earnings.
To our knowledge, we are unique in 2,500 287 0.4 the UK in having such a high proportion of our own Donations to charities outside community giving regularly in this way.
In 2011, this was our grants programmes 15 0.3 recognised in the Governments White Paper on Giving, which features St. Jamess Place as a Giving in the Total 3.4 Workplace case study, hailing our covenant scheme as hugely successful and commenting: We are delighted The vast majority of the awards made by the Foundation that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management and others are are donated to good causes which fit in with the giving already leading the way by so proactively promoting a priorities chosen by the SJP community.
In 2011, these culture of payroll giving.
themes were helping children and young people who have special needs or who are disadvantaged, supporting the hospice movement and people affected by cancer.
Our main giving theme is Cherishing the Children and in 2011, a total of 2.3 million was donated to fund projects assisting children with disabilities, illness or life limiting conditions as well as those who are disadvantaged either socially or economically or are struggling to reach their full potential.
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The student residence is now home to six students in single en-suite study bedrooms and four students in independent living studio flats.
The new studio flats offer students the opportunity to try out how it feels to live with minimum support, and is particularly useful for students aiming to live independently with support when they leave the College.
Case Study Alex, aged 22, moved into one of the studio flats when it opened in April 2011.
Alex has complex disabilities, uses a powered wheelchair which he is able to drive independently, and communicates through a communication device.
Alex has made great progress during his short time in the studio flat.
He quickly learnt to use the assistive technology and began to help cook meals for himself and other students.
When Alex leaves the College he would like to return to his home area to live with other young people in supported housing where he can direct his own care support and be involved in making choices.
Attending the College and having access to the specialist facilities, made possible by the St. Jamess Place Foundation, has Two examples of the charities we have supported through given Alex the confidence and the skills to make this our Cherishing the Children theme are set out below: possible.
National Star College in Gloucestershire The National Star College is an independent specialist college working with young people who have physical, sensory or learning disabilities from across the UK.
In September 2011, the new student residence at the College was officially opened.
The Foundation donated a total of 656,000 towards this project following on from the previous grant of 10,000 for a multi sensory room in2007.
40 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Hope and Homes for Children Hope and Homes for Children is a UK charity operating in some of the poorest parts of the world, helping children and young people who have been orphaned or abandoned.
The Foundation has supported the charity over the last 10 years, donating in excess of 4 million in this time.
In 2011, the Foundation committed 850,000 to assist Hope and Homes for Children to close an outdated orphanage in Makiriv near Kiev.
The brand new social services centre called Ray of Hope, a small family home and a mother and baby unit all provide holistic support services to hundreds of children and their families.
Overall the project will impact on the lives of over 600 children and young people and their families.
Fundraising in 2011 The Foundation continues to be reliant on the incredible generosity of the St. Jamess Place community, both in terms of sums donated but also the time set aside to attend or organise events in support of the Foundation.
In 2011, Partners and employees of St. Jamess Place raised over 3million including Company matching and gift aid, an increase of 11% on the 2.7 million raised in 2010.
This takes our total fundraising since the formation of the Foundation in 1992 to just over 23 million.
Funds donated and raised come from the following sources: Fundraising, donations & event income - 1 million Regular monthly donations from Partners and employees - 0.6 million Company matching - 1.3 million Gift Aid and Interest - 0.2 million 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued As well as giving regularly by covenant, many Partners and employees also raise significant sums by taking part in organised events or by creating their own fundraising events, from walks and cycle rides to mountain treks, triathlons, talent competitions and quiz nights.
Some of theevents in 2011 are highlighted here: Cork to Dublin Cycle Ride!
Members of the St. Jamess Place community cycled over 250 miles from Cork to Dublin and raised over 140,000 for the Foundation.
The St. JamessPlace Balmoral Half Marathon and Fun Run raised in excess of 19,000 for the Foundation.
A 3 day walk along the Thames path, raised over 11,000 for the Foundation.
42 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Plans for 2012 Itis our policy to ensure that all job applicants and 2012 marks the 20th Anniversary of the both the Company employees are treated fairly and on merit and we give full and the Foundation, with various initiatives planned to and fair consideration to applications from disabled people, celebrate this milestone and continue to increase the funds having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
We raised for good causes.
seek to employ the best person for each job and aim to ensure everyone can enjoy equal opportunities in an As well as the usual fundraising events up and down the environment that is free from discrimination of any sort.
country, in May 2012, a team of 25 Partners and employees will fly to Kathmandu in Nepal to make the demanding In respect of employees with disabilities, we will always trek to Everest Base Camp, with one of the team then consider possible modifications to the working attempting to climb Everest itself, with the aim of raising environment to ensure that anyone with disabilities has the in excess of 500,000 for the Foundation.
chance to take up opportunities or enhance their role.
We ensure that every effort is made to achieve continuity of The Foundation is also launching two new giving employment in the event of an employee becoming ill or programmes in 2012.
The first is aimed at supporting disabled and we will arrange appropriate training for those charities which utilise sports participation as a tool for employees that become ill or disabled.
Similarly, best positive change and work with disadvantaged young people practice principles ensure that our responsibilities are met or those whose lives are challenged by illness or disability.
as an equal opportunity employer.
The second project is focused on the provision of hospice care at home, with the Foundation supporting Help the At induction, all employees and members of the St. Jamess Hospices, the umbrella organisation supporting Place Partnership receive a booklet entitled Our independent UK hospices, to fund effective and innovative Approach which gives guidance on the culture and values projects that will dramatically improve end-of-life care in of St. Jamess Place.
We believe it is important for all areas the home setting.
of our community to know and understand our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and OUR PEOPLE how its integrity and values should be maintained, our We take pride in being a people business and continue to corporate culture and management style, how we deal believe that our success as a business depends on the loyalty with internal and external communications and our and dedication of our people, whether Partners or commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
employees: they provide the Group with a sustainable competitive advantage and the attitude, knowledge and Partners are also provided with a document which sets commitment of our people continues to be a strong outthe principles that have made the Partnership our differentiator.
We aim to attract the best people, enable competitive edge and a group of professionals that other them to fulfil their potential and secure their continued advisers aspire to join.
The document emphasises our commitment by providing them with an interesting and values of integrity, trust, openness, partnership and challenging career within a first class working teamwork and is designed to guide individual and environment.
We share ideas and are always receptive to corporate actions, decisions and standards across the suggestions for change.
We give credit where credit is due Company.
and work hard to recognise individual performance.
The Company reviewed its business practices and The Company is committed to maintaining an procedures in the run up to the bribery legislation coming appropriately skilled and diverse workforce irrespective of into force in April 2011 and is satisfied that it has age, colour, race, nationality, ethnicity, sex, or disability.
appropriate protections in place to ensure compliance.
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Employee Communication We remain committed to an open style of communication with employees.
We keep all of our community informed, via the SJP Intranet, on matters that might affect their day-to-day work and communicate other items of interest via a bi-monthly employee newsletter.
Regular feedback from employees at all levels is sought through informal lunches hosted by Directors, and managers are expected to have regular team meetings and regular one-to-ones with their team members.
Directors and senior managers frequently visit St. Jamess Place office locations to disseminate key corporate messages and obtain valuable feedback.
Employee Feedback We continue to seek employees views and opinions through a bi-annual Employee Survey with the most recent survey being conducted in September 2010.
The survey was carried out by independent third party consultants ORC International so staff could be assured that any feedback would be confidential and strictly non-attributable.
We received a strong survey response rate of 85% compared to 82% in 2008 so we believe that the survey results provide a good snapshot of how our employees are feeling on a number of important issues.
We have repeated the results of the survey below to remind shareholders of the outcomes.
ORC measure the engagement of staff through a series of questions in the survey which together form an employee engagement index, which ORC used to compare SJPs results to those of other financial services organisations that take part in their surveys.
We were delighted that SJPs overall engagement score was 84%, considerably higher than the financial services benchmark of 69%.
The following table shows the responses to the questions linked to our employee engagement index: % Difference % to Question Positive Benchmark I feel proud to work for SJP 90% 14% I would recommend SJP as a good place to work 84% 16% Considering everything, I am satisfied with SJP as a place to work 86% 17% I feel a strong sense of belonging to SJP 82% 18% I intend to still be working for SJP in 12 months time 83% 13% This organisation motivates me to go the extra mile 74% 22% Working here makes me want to do the best I can 84% 11% Since the last survey we have held focus groups to discuss the results with employees at all levels and shared the output from the focus groups with senior managers in the organisation.
We have developed a new manager induction event and other training for existing managers in response to issues highlighted in the survey, as well as improving our annual leave based on length of service for all employees.
We plan to repeat the survey process at the end of 2012.
Our workplace gender profile is fairly evenly split with a total of 53% female and 47% male employees.
Employee retention for 2011 is 92.3%, whilst days lost through sickness across the business stands at 6.3 days per employee, per year, which is below the national average.
Whilst our employee turnover remains low, we carry out farewell interviews for all our employees, to gain valuable feedback on reasons for leaving and act where possible.
People Development We are keen to ensure that all individuals are encouraged to develop and are given opportunities to seek new challenges across the business.
As well as planned development through the reporting and appraisal processes, employees are able to take advantage of a variety of courses, mentoring, or other development opportunities made available through the Training Department.
44 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review St. Jamess Place is a Corporate Member of the Institute of andpeople management, project delivery and strategic Customer Service ICS.
During 2011, the ICS Awards development - at each level.
Employees are encouraged to programme continued to provide practical support to the develop their skills and knowledge through internal and development of employees with growing numbers of external learning and workshop opportunities.
employees involved in the scheme.
We now have over 60 people participating in the Awards programme and many Our reward package is competitive with a comprehensive of the early participants now assist colleagues in coaching range of benefits provided to all employees including and mentoring roles.
The programme was trialled for the Pension, Life and Critical Illness cover, income first time with field based employees, which worked well replacement, Private Medical cover and health screening.
and we hope to expand this further in 2012.
The Company retained its Approved Centre Status by the ICS which We provide all employees with the opportunity to benefit recognises that our programme is self-sufficient with our from annual cash bonuses linked to St. Jamess Place own training events, coaches and assessors.
All employees are also provided with an annual opportunity to sacrifice their cash The Knowledge Development Meetings first created bonuses to their pension arrangement, with any amount during 2008 for Cirencester employees were further sacrificed enhanced by 10% by the Company to encourage extended in 2011 and are attended by an increasing number and communicate the importance of retirement planning.
The events have proved to be successful in A pension salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced helping employees develop their understanding of our during 2009 to complement the existing bonus sacrifice business and learn new skills.
arrangement enabling staff to enhance their pension by sacrificing a portion of their annual salary, such amount Similarly, a development programme has been developed again enhanced by 10%.
Over 30% of our employees for each of the specialist roles within the Filed Management elected to participate in the scheme.
Team, which commences as soon as a new Manager joins St. Jamess Place and continues throughout their career.
An We also recognise the value of employees being given the example of this is a programme of six courses for Business opportunity to acquire St. Jamess Place shares and as a Development Managers that helps them develop their skills result all employees are invited to participate in both a to act as a consultant and help Partners build their Sharesave plan and a Share Incentive Plan.
This covers various topics from recruiting staff of employees participate in the Sharesave plan which to business planning.
During 2011, we worked extensively allows shares to be acquired after a three-year savings with our Senior Field Management team to implement a period with 20% of employees having also elected to more effective appraisal and review process to ensure that participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
Further everyone has clear personal development objectives.
opportunities to participate in these share plans will be provided during 2012.
Changes in regulation will require many of our Partners to hold a higher level qualification by the end of 2012 and we Health and Safety wish to ensure that our Partner support teams are qualified We work hard to create an excellent working environment to a similar or higher level as the Partnership.
We have for employees and Partners.
We ensure every office therefore implemented a programme of development complies with Health and Safety regulations and also seek courses to help the relevant staff obtain their Diploma to improve awareness through regular training sessions on qualifications.
During 2011, 171 exams were successfully subjects such as manual handling, fire marshal and first passed by our employees towards their Diploma aider training.
Each year we carry out fire risk assessments, fire Performance, Reward and Remuneration evacuation tests and health and safety inspections and the We encourage a culture of high performance and service actions identified from these are completed appropriately delivery.
This is supported by a formalised Performance and overseen by the Health and Safety working group.
The Development Review process underpinned by our working group is chaired by the Operations Director and Competency Framework, which articulates the meets at least quarterly to review policies, review the importance to SJP of core activities and particular progress against targets and agree the action plan for the behaviours - including communication, relationship following year.
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued OUR CLIENTS We were delighted to receive recognition for the quality of St. Jamess Place has always recognised that the interests of advice and service we provided to our clients during 2011. our clients are paramount and central to our culture.
We We were once again voted Best Financial Adviser at the strive to build and maintain long-term relationships with Money Pages 2011 Personal Finance Awards and also clients through the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
These received the award for Best Wealth Manager for Tax by relationships are founded on the principle that every client FT Investors Chronicle.
has different goals and aspirations, requiring an individual, personal and bespoke advice service from a St. Jamess These awards recognise the importance of the client Place Partner.
By applying this principle, our Partners have relationship, which together with our successful approach developed exceptionally strong and lasting relationships to wealth management, lies at the heart of our business.
with their clients which are founded on trust.
We aim to deliver consistent all round performance to clients by: COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES Providing trusted advice through experienced and Our community activity is focussed on the recognition of suitably qualified advisers.
our responsibility to help build strong and healthy Providing solutions to meet identified client needs.
communities in the areas in which we operate our business.
Ensuring that our literature is clear and easily Where possible we work with local charitable partners and understood.
The combination of their Doing our very best to ensure that our clients expertise and the talents and enthusiasm of our employees investments are managed effectively and meet or exceed makes our community involvement effective and expectations.
Exhibiting empathy and consideration when dealing with our clients and working within the spirit of our Our Employee Volunteering programme was revised in relationship with them: we listen to their needs.
2010 with employees being encouraged to share their knowledge and business skills with charities and other We support and encourage Partner client relationships by voluntary organisations, rather than providing one-off ensuring that the range of wealth management products and support.
In this way, we can benefit the charity as well as services on offer is comprehensive and meets both the enhance the personal development of the employee by current and future needs of clients.
We wish to ensure that helping to develop and build a range of skills and abilities our clients perception of St. Jamess Place is positive in every that they can bring back to the workplace.
We have further sense and that their experience of dealing with the plans to encourage increased volunteering in 2012, organisation is consistent with the image we portray.
We particularly in the area of helping young people understand also guarantee the suitability of the advice given by Partners their finances better, including the dangers of going when they recommend any of the products and services intodebt.
provided by companies in the St. Jamess Place Group.
Cirencester College is a good example of the type In settling life and health claims, we take a positive view ofsupport we provide to local communities.
The College and do not hide behind the small print.
Wherever has over 1,600 students between the ages of 16 and 19 and possible, we will pay claims in line with the spirit of the a further 7,000 students attending a variety of adult contract.
We also place great emphasis on communicating learning courses.
Our main involvement with the College the characteristics of our products and services with clarity is to provide support for the 16 to 19 year old Academy and transparency.
Programmes, of which there arefive, all designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
Client consultation is undertaken on a regular basis via In 2011, we supported six students with paid summer client surveys and focussed research on specific areas of our internships and we continue to provide extensive personal offering.
We conduct annual satisfaction surveys on a mentoring and business coaching to a number of students.
regular basis, giving us a clear understanding of what St. Jamess Place also sponsors a number of awards and clients want and expect and enabling us to enhance the continues to have representation on the various Academy service we are able to offer them.
Boardsat College and National levels.
We have also employedtwelve Academy students as a direct result of our relationship with the College, following their graduation.
46 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review One of the Academy students, who now works for ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE St. Jamess Placesaid I was lucky enough to have both an Despite the rapid growth of the Group, in term of new internship at St. Jamess Place and a mentor from their business, employees and Partners, in 2011 St. JamessPlace Marketing department.
The internship gave me a real taste was able to demonstrate a continued reduction in its carbon for what it was like to work for a big company in the footprint on a normalised basis and continued to work financial industry and I loved it from the word go.
towards reducing the Groups environmental impact Everyone was really friendly and helpful.
Imcertain I through effective management of our energy systems.
We wouldnt be where I am now if it wasnt for the Academy recognise that the Company has a responsibility to manage Programme.
the effect of our business on climate change by taking a positive approach in managing our business activities, while The sponsorship of the Loughborough University encouraging all Partners and staff to consider their own Swimming programme reflectsour desire to support a personal impact on the environment.
We measure our community programme of talented sports individuals in environmental data from October to September to allow the build up to the London 2012 Olympic Games.
The for more accurate data to be received for inclusion in this support that we offer enables the squad to receive annual report.
additional coaching and since our relationship started in 2007, the team have medalled in all major UK and The following tables summarise both our absolute and International events including European, Commonwealth normalised CO e Emissions for the years to 2 and World Championships, as well as the Beijing Olympics September2009, 2010 and 2011, for our core business in 2008.
We are pleased that our sponsorship of the activities, using 2011 conversion rates as provided by programme will continue until the 2016 Olympic Games.
DEFRA for all our emission categories.
The Data has been checked and verified by Ecometrica.
We have entered into a partnership with the fundraising Committee of the Parish Church in Cirencester near the The Absolute figures are based on tonnes of CO e 2 Groups Head Office to encourage community fundraising produced from our core business operations, while the for the restoration of the Church.
SJP has agreed to match Normalised figures are based on full time occupants pound for pound funds raised for the project within the employees FTO FTE in our offices divided by the local community, up to a specified limit each year.
absolute tonnes of CO e in each category.
As stated in our 2 annual environmental report for 2010 available on our Staff in our Cirencester office entered into the Christmas website at www.
co. uk we have reset our targets for the spirit by donating over 200 Christmas presents to County next three years having already achieved the previous three Community Projects CCP Hamper Scamper Appeal in year targets set in 2008 within two years, for each CO e 2 December2011, as well as donating 150 towards other category listed.
presents for disadvantaged young people.
Young Gloucestershire Young Glos is the leading voluntary youth organisation in Gloucestershire, delivering high-quality programmes and training for vulnerable young people.
Two of our employees act as Trustees of the charity, helping Young Glos to enhance their governance procedures and plan for the future in light of government cutbacks for youth service programmes.
In 2011, support from St. JamessPlace helped Young Glos to expand their Youth Achievement Programmes, supporting young people not in education or training.
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Absolute Table Emissions Year to End 2009 Tonnes 2010 Tonnes 2011 Tonnes 2011 Target % Change on 3 YR Target September CO e CO e CO e Tonnes CO e 2010 2010-2013 2 2 2 2 Energy 2,997 2,954 2,947 2,949 -0.24% -4.00% Business Travel 1,136 1,137 1,195 1,128 5.10% -3.00% Waste 226 116 112 115 -3.45% -5.00% Total Tonnes 4,359 4,207 4,254 4,192 1.12% -3.40% Absolute Year to End 2009 2010 2011 change on September Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2010 Paper Recycled 170 194 195 0.52% Absolute Year to End 2009 Cubic 2010 Cubic 2011 Cubic change on September Metres Metres Metres 2010 Water usage 6,734 6,371 7,856 23.3% Normalised Table Emissions Year to End 2009 FTO 2010 FTO 2011 FTO 2011 Target % change 3 YR Target September CO e CO e CO e FTO CO e On 2010 2010-2013 2 2 2 2 Energy 2.214 1.992 1.869 1.944 -6.17% -8.00% Business Travel 1.717 1.638 1.578 1.549 -3.66% -11.00% Waste 0.167 0.078 0.071 0.076 -8.97% -10.00% Total Tonnes 4.098 3.708 3.518 3.569 -5.12% -8.90% Normalised Year to End 2009 2010 2011 change on September Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2010 Paper Recycled 0.125 0.131 0.124 -5.34% Normalised Year to End 2009 Cubic 2010 Cubic 2011 Cubic change on September Metres Metres Metres 2010 Water used 4.973 4.296 4.982 15.97% Year to End September 2009 2010 2011 2011 Target F. T. O Energy Waste 1,354 1,483 1,577 1,517 F. T. E Business Travel 662 694 757 728 CO e Carbon Dioxide equivalent Methane and Nitric Acid are converted to Carbon Dioxide 2 Energy We have achieved a very small absolute decrease in carbon reduction in the area of energy during 2011, mainly through the reduction of an office site and energy audits conducted at eight selected offices.
We have also included estimated gas consumption for several Landlord sites not previously included in our figures.
Taking all these changes into account our absolute reduction has been limited to 0.2%, however levels in 2012 could increase slightly with additional space being occupied for office use.
However, we achieved a reduction of 6.2% on 2010 levels on a normalised basis.
Travel We are on target to meet our 3 year normalised target for travel, with a reduction of 3.7% during the last 12 months, but we have seen in the same period our absolute CO e levels increase by 5.1%.
The majority of the absolute increase 2 relates to increased business vehicle mileage and rail travel, and it is recognised that with increased staffing levels of 9% during the last 12 months, this area will be a challenge to reduce, in spite of an increase in audio conferencing for meetingpurposes.
48 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Waste support a 33.9MW wind farm, the first in the country and The amount of waste sent to landfill has reduced by 3.5% one of the largest in Central America.
The project delivers in absolute terms and by 9.0% in normalised terms, clean electricity to Nicaraguas national grid.
following changes to waste collection processes at head office with improved recycling of plastics, cardboard, tins Maharashtra 7.5MW Wind Power Project, India and glass.
It is expected that a further reduction will take This project involves the development of six 1,250KW place during 2012 as a waste food recycling plan is put in wind turbines with a total installed capacity of 75MW place in our Head office.
located in the villages of Ghakia and Ghoupale in the state of Maharashta.
The project provides 13GWH of renewable The Marketing Department continues to introduce electricity per year to the grid in India.
marketing literature into our on demand print options, which both reduces print and distribution practices and Cholburi Wastewater Biogas to Energy Project, excess print wastage following necessary print updates to Thailand literature.
We continue to use forestry stewardship FSC This project uses biogas from wastewater to generate heat and Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification and power at a tapioca starch drying factory in Cholburi.
We also use 100% recycled The project introduces anaerobic fixed film reactor AFFR branded copy paper throughout the Company.
technology to the factory: a closed loop system codeveloped by the King Mongkuts University of Technology Water in Thonburi and the National Centre of Genetic Water usage remains at low levels with a billed Engineering and Biotechnology.
The AFFR technology consumption of 7,856 cubic metres in 2011 compared with collects and supplies biogas to a boiler where it is 6,371 cubic metres in 2010, giving a 23.3% increase in combusted to generate heat and electricity.
Most of this can be attributed to additional usage of around 1,450 cubic metres at our head office, eTree Electronic Communication where staffing levels have increased by 9%.
No water We remain a member of the eTree initiative, a programme reduction targets have been set for the period 2010-2013, which encourages shareholders to receive electronic as we believe that we achieved a minimum level by 2010. communications as a way of saving paper and reducing the impact on the environment.
The scheme is run in association Engagement with Third Parties with the woodland trust Tree for All campaign.
Further Our engagement with third parties remains fairly details can be found at www.
consistent with previous years, including meetings with Business in the Community BITC to discuss both Activities Planned for 2012 environmental and corporate responsibility improvements Our activities planned for 2012 are to continue with the and initiatives.
We have participated in the Carbon approach to reducing our environmental impact which will Disclosure Project, one of the leading carbon collation include: projects aimed at the top companies worldwide.
In 2011 Using the 2011 Energy Audit results to improve the we were again included within the FTSE4GOOD index.
amount of energy used in all our office sites.
Introduce a food recycling process at Head Office, ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS including food waste and selective packaging.
Recognising that we are unable to reduce our carbon Continue to look at electronic processes to replace emissions to a zero level while energy is primarily sourced paper routines which include paper usage and the from fossil fuels, we have reviewed our arrangement of movement of documents via courier links.
carbon offsetting through the Carbon Neutral Company Maintaining the encouragement of audio and web and agreed to continue to offset our carbon footprint for a conferencing options to reduce travel where possible.
further three years, and committed to two main projects Keep engaging with our staff and encouraging them to with a further project to be selected on an annual basis.
consider their own environmental impact both corporately and individually.
The two main projects are based around renewable energy, Engage with third party organisations such as CDP, BITC while the annual project for 2011 is a methane capture and the Carbon Neutral Company to keep searching for project.
These are listed below: practical methods of improvements and awareness.
Amayo Wind Power Project, Nicaragua A full environmental report is produced annually and can This project is located on the shores of Lake Nicaragua, one be located together with a copy of the Environmental of the best wind resources in the Americas.
The Amayo Policy and previous annual reports, on our corporate wind project uses nineteen 2.1MW turbine generators to website at www.
