14 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 This section, Fragile West, resilient East, was Business environment written by Standard Chartereds Research team, which was ranked number one Fragile West, resilient East in the world for economic forecasting by Bloomberg in December 2011.
The world economy is in the early stages of a shift in Business environment in 2012 the balance of economic and financial power from The outlook for any economy depends on the interaction the West to the East.
between the fundamentals, policy and confidence.
In the On the economic front, it was once again a story West, the fundamentals are poor, the policy cupboard is of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America almost empty and confidence has been shot to pieces.
driving global economic growth in the face of a sharp Incontrast, across Standard Chartereds markets in the slowdown in the developed economies in the West.
emerging world, the fundamentals are good, the policy cupboard is almost full and confidence is likely to prove Global growth slowed to 3.0 per cent in 2011, from 3.9 per resilient.
Initially, this was due to factors such as inventory restocking which drove growth in 2010 starting to wear This points to a continuation in 2012 of a two-speed world off, and as more countries started to tighten policy.
Higher oil where a fragile West contrasts with a resilient East.
2012 is prices as a result of the Arab Spring and the impact of the also likely to highlight the fact that despite the world economy Japanese earthquake on supply chains were other significant becoming more divided, no region is fully decoupled or immune shocks in the first half.
Since the summer, events in Europe from events elsewhere.
During the first half of 2012, adeep have dragged growth down.
After the financial crisis of recession in Europe will signicantly weigh on global growth 2008-09, there was always the possibility of a double-dip and impact the emerging markets through trade and financial recession, triggered by an external shock, a policy mistake, linkages.
European policy makers have made some progress or a loss ofcondence.
Europe provided all three in 2011, lately.
The European Central Bank has injected liquidity into at the sametime.
Europes banking system while the second bailout for Greece has been agreed.
Despite these measures, economic Given this backdrop, Standard Chartereds markets remained conditions will remain extremely challenging for Europe.
By the the locomotives for global growth in 2011.
China stood out second half, stronger growth across China and other emerging once again as the worlds fastest growing major economy, economies should pull up worldwide activity, transforming charting a 9.2 per cent growth in gross domestic product prospects for 2013.
It will be arecovery made in the East and GDP, followed by India, which is likely to have grown by 7 per felt in the West, though globalgrowth for the year will slide from cent.
Indonesia, Asias other major domestic demand-driven 3 per cent in 2011 to just 2.2per cent in 2012, before picking economy, powered ahead with a 6.5 per cent growth.
In upagain to around 3.6per cent pace in 2013.
This is clear contrast, the US economy grew by 1.7 per cent, the euro evidence of theongoing shift in the balance of power.
areaby 1.5 per cent, while Japans economy contracted by 0.9 per cent.
Asian outlook The more open Asian economies South Korea, Taiwan, In Asia, growth is likely to slow to 6.5 per cent in 2012, Hong Kong and Singapore grew between 3.5 and 5.0 per from 7.3per cent, before rebounding to 7.5 per cent in 2013. cent, slowing in the second half of the year as the crisis in Giventhe external headwinds, it would not be a surprise if Europe hurt exports.
Only Thailand reported a low rate of China slowed during the first quarter of 2012, and hints of growth in 2011, at 0.1 per cent, as a result of the widespread amoderation are already apparent.
Thereafter, the economy oods that affected major industrial areas.
The recovery should recover, helped by policy stimulus.
Overall, China is process and spending to renew infrastructure and housing likely to slow for the second year running, to 8.1 per cent in isalready under way and we expect the Thai economy to 2012, before recovering to 8.7 per cent in 2013.
Going forward, bounce back in 2012.
China is expected to grow at an average 7.0 per cent over the next decade, a slower but more sustainable pace of growth In Africa, Nigeria, Standard Chartereds largest market in the consistent with its ageing population, although there is likely region, expanded by 7.2 per cent, while Ghanas economy tobe volatility and occasional setbacks along the way.
soared by 13.6 per cent as a result of the start of production from a major oileld.
South Africa, the continents largest Whereas many countries around the world may experience economy, grew by 3.2 per cent.
more difficult political conditions in the coming years, Chinas leadership change is expected to be smooth.
Moreover, the The Middle East was a diverse region in 2011 and economic policy environment will be a continuation of that differentiation was key to assessing its prospects.
Follow-through on Chinas 12th Five Year Plan, Spring had little impact on the oil-producing countries of the unveiled in March 2011, is likely to be an important feature.
region, which deployed their substantial revenues from energy Theplan focused on boosting consumer spending, social resources to boost household wealth and consumption.
That, welfare and the green economy and highlighted seven key as well as high oil prices, helped Saudi Arabias economy, the strategic industries.
These are going to be the future growth regions largest, togrow by 6.6per cent, while the UAE drivers of the worlds second-largest economy.
expanded by 3.8 per cent and Qatars economy surged by 16.9 per cent on the back of new liqueed natural gas India, meanwhile, is likely to recover to a 7.4 per cent growth production coming on stream.
inthe financial year starting on 1 April 2012, as the peaking ofination allows the central bank to cut rates, improving Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 15 GDP growth in key markets Real GDP growth rate in % 2011 2012 Indias financial year starts in April while the financial years of Bangladesh and Pakistan start in July forecast Standard Chartered forecasts for 2012 and other data based on Standard Chartered Economics Weekly, published on 23 February 2012 investment sentiment among local companies.
However, to survive in its present format.
But if the euro were to collapse, progress on some major economic reform measures, such the initial beneciary would likely be the US dollar.
Meanwhile, asthe opening up of various sectors of the economy to uncertainties surrounding Irans nuclear impasse with the international investors, increased spending on infrastructure West, and the unrest in Syria, are likely to increase volatility and tackling governance issues are essential for India to incrude oil prices.
achieve its growth potential and reap its demographic dividend.
Prospects are not rosy everywhere across the emerging Elsewhere in Asia, performance will remain solid.
South world, either, and the focus is on countries where economic Koreas economy is likely to slow marginally to a 3.0 per cent imbalances persist, particularly on the current account.
growth while Indonesia, the other major domestic demandTurkey, Pakistan and Vietnam remain concerns.
Brazil is driven Asian economy, is likely to expand by 5.8 per cent in slowing sharply.
Other challenges facing the emerging world 2012.
The more open economies of Taiwan, Hong Kong, include environmental degradation, resource shortages, and Singapore and Malaysia are, however, likely to see a sharper institutional and governance issues, especially corruption.
slowdown as a result of recession in the euro area.
Thechange of guard in North Korea has raised political uncertainty in that part of the world.
In the Middle East, the Africa and the Middle East problems so apparent in the Arab Spring remain, and are Sub-Saharan Africa is likely to see stronger growth in 2012, seen in terms of high rates of youth unemployment.
upfrom 4.8 per cent to 5.3 per cent, with Nigeria expected togrow by 6.9 per cent.
It is important to stress that, while Conclusion commodities have played an important role in Africas recent The key message for 2012, however, is that the West is fragile, growth, so too has the strength of domestic demand.
This but emerging economies are in far better shape to cope.
should remain a positive in 2012, notwithstanding worries Atthis time, there is a need to balance short-term uncertainties about ination prospects and other significant challenges against longer-term positives and to recognise some of the across the region.
significant underlying long-term drivers of the global economy.
These include the remarkable growth of consumer markets The Middle East and North Africa region, too, faces a asa result of the rapid expansion of the middle class, challenging time as North Africa comes to terms with the urbanisation and an infrastructure boom across the emerging aftermath of the Arab Spring and conict in Libya.
Gulf world and the growth of new trade corridors between countries, meanwhile, appear to be on a better trajectory, helped economies in Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.
Firm oil prices clearly help, This has been the key driver of global growth since the turn although the breakeven price of oil used to prepare national ofthe millennium and 2012 will reinforce this underlying trend.
Standard Chartereds largest market in the region, the UAE, is expected to grow by 2.4 per cent.
2011 GDP growth in key markets Policy challenges and other risks One of the key challenges in 2012 is that the policy China South Korea environment in the West is in danger of being pro-cyclical, both in the regulatory response across many countries and inthe scal response in Europe.
This adds to the overhang of 9.2% 3.6% debt and the pressure on both governments and consumers 2010: 10.3% 2010: 6.2% to deleverage across the West.
This augurs sluggish growth in the US and recession in the UK and the euro area.
Indonesia India The slow growth in the West will add to pressure on central banks to keep interest rates low for as long as possible.
Further quantitative easing is likely.
This may weigh on 6.5% 7.0% currencies and in turn feed ows into emerging economies, 2010: 6.1% 2010: 8.5% where growth and longer-term opportunities are better.
However, with many economies lacking the absorptive Hong Kong Singapore capacity to handle such ows, one would expect to see eventual upward pressure on asset and land prices.
This will add to dilemmas for policy makers across the emerging world.
5.0% 4.9% Currency and commodity price volatility may be a feature of 2010: 7.0% 2010: 14.5% 2012.
The euro looks overvalued given problems in the region, Indias financial year starts in April while many Asian currencies look oversold.
