42 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 People Enabling the sustainable delivery of performance We employ nearly 87,000 people, representing Our highlights in 2011 130nationalities and working across 71 markets.
Our diversity is a real strength and through our inclusive t We reinforced the importance of our values in relation approach we enable our people to deliver exceptional tobusiness performance and the Groups culture by results within a culture that embodies our brand making them central to the way we manage promise, Here for good.
performance and reward Here for good articulates our commitment to making a positive t We sustained our high level of employee engagement, impact in every element of our business, whether through the 12 scoring 4.23 on a scale of 1 to 5 in our Gallup Q people who work for and with us or the people in the Employee Engagement Survey communities we touch.
Combined with our deeply-felt values, this forms the backbone of our moral compass and unies us t We strengthened our employer brand across our across our different markets and business functions.
It is our recruitment marketing and processes and grew unique culture that enables us to deliver strong performance ourheadcount by nearly 2,000 for all our stakeholders and we therefore nurture it carefully.
Growing our talent Our priorities in 2012 In 2011, the Group increased its net headcount by nearly 2,000 in markets spanning Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
t Continue to embed our brand promise, Here for With nearly 87,000 people, one of our best sources of talent good, making our culture and values a source of is our own employees and we always seek to strike a balance differentiation between developing our people and the strategic acquisition of new talent.
t Strengthen the capabilities of our leadership and management population focusing on improving our Our focus is on building teams with deep local knowledge, ability to anticipate and respond to change providing real benefit for the customers and clients we serve.
As such, our customer facing roles in both our Consumer and t Continue to enhance talent development and Wholesale Banking businesses remain a high priority for us.
retentionthrough the reinforcement of performance differentiation in reward and diversity of pipeline 2011 saw us strengthen our employer brand across our approach to recruitment refreshing our recruitment t Deepen community and employee volunteering websites, developing integrated marketing across a range activities as a source of engagement ofmedia and updating our selection processes.
We are embracing leading edge technologies to drive long-term relationships with candidates as we seek to attract the best Employees people for the Group.
Our graduate programmes continue to be a key source of future talent for the organisation and in 2011 we refreshed our 86,865 agship International Graduate programme to better meet the needs of the business and our graduates.
people 13 0 nationalities 71 markets Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 43 1 Employees at our new East Africa ofce 12 inNairobi 2 Supporting a customer at a Mumbai branch Developing our leadership capabilities Our employees play a critical role in supporting our Our leadership population has greatly expanded over the last commitment to D&I in their communities.
Last year, we five years and its capacity to deliver the Groups ambitious successfully surpassed our 2008 Clinton Global Initiative agenda has grown with it.
We aim to develop our leaders commitment to provide financial literacy training to at least with equal emphasis on their individual strengths and their 5,000 women in Asia.
Numerous employees across India, collective capabilities across the Group.
Our most senior Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, leadership programme, Leading the Journey, provides a forum Taiwan, Cambodia, Korea, Pakistan and China were for current and future senior leaders to come together across involvedand helped us improve the financial education markets and functions.
This has helped to deepen cohesion ofalmost 7,000 girls and women.
within our leadership community, improving our organisational agility and succession planning.
Building our employee engagement We recognise the importance of a strong sense of connection Last year, we enhanced our Great Manager Programme, between our employees and the Group.
The commitment of which is available to over 17,000 managers Group-wide, and our employees is fundamental to our business success and as refreshed the content and tools for all our automated people such, we continue to strengthen our managers accountability processes.
Our research has shown that our leaders success for good people management.
is strongly related to their ability to think about the Group in the context of its contribution to local communities and the 2011 was once again notable for a high level of employee broader context in which we operate.
engagement, despite the challenging and uncertain external environment.
Ninety-five per cent of employees participated in More than 200 leaders had access to a leadership facilitator in 12 the Gallup Organisations Q Employee Engagement Survey, 2011 to support them and their senior teams through major resulting in a score of 4.23 out of a possible 5.
We believe this leadership transitions and in adapting collectively to significant demonstrates the close attention we pay to the employee current and future challenges.
experience and our commitment to building a great place towork.
Enabling Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion D&I is part of our DNA and is central to China signicantly increased its score achieving 4.42, which our brand and culture we endeavour to ensure that all of our equates to a world class level of engagement a differentiating employees are supported and valued as equals.
Our aim is factor for us in this part of our footprint.
This means all three that our employees are truly representative of the Groups markets in Greater China China, Hong Kong and Taiwan have diverse markets and the prole of our clients.
now achieved world class levels of engagement.
Europe and the UAE also saw significant improvement.
The concerted In 2011, we welcomed a new D&I Council of senior leaders effort of local managers to tailor recognition and communicate from across the Groups network.
The new Council supports clearly and consistently contributed to this success.
and drives the Groups D&I agenda and strategy, while more than 60 Country Champions in our markets are responsible In recognition of our achievements, we were awarded the 2011 for local implementation.
Great Workplace award by Gallup.
Within the workplace, we aim to provide arrangements that Our culture and values meet the unique needs and circumstances of our people and Our distinctive culture is one of the reasons why our clients our businesses.
This includes a focus on more agile and and customers choose to bank with us and why employees exible working in 16 of our largest markets.
Aligned to this want to join and stay with us.
It is what aligns us as One Bank approach, the Group has also launched a new sabbaticals across a diverse global footprint.
framework in many of our largest markets: an important element of our lifetime career strategy and brand promise.
Our values Courageous, Responsive, International, Creative, and Trustworthy act as a guide, underpinning all our Our targeted diversity programmes were expanded to reach activities on our journey to create long-term value for our more employees more than 200 participated in career shareholders, while having a positive social and economic development programmes specically for women at middle impact on the communities we serve.
management level and our Global Mentoring Programme, targeted at emerging leaders, reached more than 100employees.
44 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 People continued Our brand promise, Here for good, captures our genuine Employee relations commitment to customers and clients.
It reaches out to all of Employee relations have become increasingly important to our our stakeholders, including our employees, through a simple business as we respond to external uncertainty and develop and compelling promise.
It describes who we are, what we effective workplace practices.
We have developed close stand for and what makes us different.
working relationships with Group and country regulators as well as local unions and continually provide regulatory support We have continued to deliver on our commitment to bring to countries across our footprint, ensuring that our governance Here for good to life in everything we do.
We introduced a policies are fully aligned.
five-point values rating scale with enhanced descriptive behaviours, helping illustrate how our employees can bring Responding to a strike of union members in Korea last year, the values to life and how best to continue doing even more we reiterated our consultative approach with the union.
This has also provided a catalyst for managers have also developed a learning programme to ensure our and their team members to have more detailed, integrated mandatory regulatory requirements are transparent and well performance conversations, and reasserts our emphasis on communicated.
how we achieve results, as well as what is achieved.
The well-being of our employees remains at the heart of In Consumer Banking, a number of online assessment Standard Chartereds people agenda.
We further embedded tools are used when recruiting for roles in frontline sales and our Speaking Up policy and our grievance handling customer service.
This enables us to identify the individuals procedures, demonstrating our commitment to enhancing with the strengths best suited for the role, helping us to deliver ouremployee relations.
the best possible customer and employee experience.
In addition, we have consolidated the customer focused ways Performance and reward of working introduced in 2010, by extending the reach and Our success depends upon the performance, behaviours and attention paid to the SCB Way in our sales and customer commitment of our employees.
Through our performance and management processes.
reward practices, our employees are motivated to focus on business and personal objectives and to deliver and sustain Wholesale Banking also built on the foundation of work outstanding performance, in line with the Groups values and undertaken in 2010 to reinforce the best of our culture and risk appetite.
We remain committed to an extremely high level values.
In March 2011, we launched a Culture Toolkit to our of governance and are both supportive of and aligned to the leaders enabling them to integrate conversations about culture Financial Stability Boards principles on sound remuneration and values into key people processes such as selection and practices.
It has provided a framework for structured conversations within teams and improved understanding of 2011 was a year of continued volatility and uncertainty with expected ways of working.
remuneration remaining under close scrutiny from regulators and investors.
There is also continued buoyancy in terms of competitive pressures, particularly in junior positions across many countries in Asia.
This follows a trend, evident in recent years, for expectations of higher than ination salary increases.
We have therefore sought to balance the need for competitive reward structures within our total compensation approach, whilst maintaining prudence towards the cost and risk posed to the business.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 45 1 Staff at our Singapore ofce 12 2 Traders at our Jakarta ofce In 2011, we focused on improving our performance review Summary process, simplifying the online system to achieve an enhanced In 2011, our people strategy remained consistent and employee experience.
We improved our performance review focused on enabling the sustainable delivery of performance.
guidelines for managers, providing four key discussion We have increased employee engagement, strengthened our points performance, value behaviours, development, and leadership capability and further embedded our values.
Our risk to help them achieve more in-depth and integrated continued focus on the simplication of our people processes conversations with their teams.
We also further empowered has also enhanced our employee experience by creating our managers to make decisions in a robust and informed capacity for managers and HR teams to focus on the strategic way, creating greater local ownership and accountability for people issues that deliver business performance.
culture of Standard Chartered remains a source of strength forus as we continue to grow.
We recognise the importance of sustained performance and have structured our reward packages accordingly.
Our We are committed to providing an exceptional and compelling deferral levels are meaningful and are designed to increase employment experience, which both understands and meets with seniority and quantum of variable compensation.
the needs of our diverse employees and managers as well as Following a review of market practice, we introduced an reinforcing Here for good.
Our priorities for sustaining this element of deferred cash to maintain a variable compensation throughout the year ahead will include ongoing improvements structure that both satisfies our regulators requirements and to our organisational and leadership agility and a continued remains competitive.
focus on the strengths of our people.
Creating long-term value for our shareholders is our core business objective.
Last year, shareholders approved our 2011 Standard Chartered Performance Share Plan.
The entire Groups discretionary share awards, such as deferred and performance shares are now made under this plan.
In respect of performance shares, we have introduced Return on Risk Weighted Assets as a specic measure.
We also made a number of enhancements to our existing reward policies.
The Groups claw-back policy has been improved and we have strengthened our shareholding requirement policy for senior management.
