Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 13 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility CR policy is designed to meet the long-term expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and ensure the sustainable development of our business.
It is clear that protecting the environment and running our business ethically makes good commercial sense and, apart from improving the environment for both our staff and our customers, will also help us to enhance shareholder returns.
Neil Page reports to the Board on CR matters and co-ordinates the Groups CR policies and activities.
He is supported by a team providing support and advice to develop the businesss policies and approach.
We have continued developing and improving policies to cover are being introduced to the Rest of Europe.
We also have a timber the following: policy to ensure all timber floor covering products are manufactured from sustainable resources.
Providing great service Our aim is to provide outstanding customer service by selling a Creating a safe place to work and shop comprehensive range of flooring products at the keenest prices, We are committed to achieving high standards of health and safety supported by excellent store staff and, where required, by in all operational areas.
organising a high quality carpet fitting service.
A monthly health and safety bulletin is now issued to all stores, Our mobile fitter training pods enable us to offer all our and quarterly Health and Safety Committee meetings have been recommended fitters access to the Flooring Industry Trade introduced into Belgium and The Netherlands.
There has been a Association FITA assessment and additional training where decrease in the overall level of accidents in the UK & RoI to 172 required to meet FITAs exacting standards.
We are now able 2010: 197, and a 50% reduction in cutting injuries, following to recommend 2,694 registered fitters who have attained FITA the introduction of a new safety knife for cutting carpet and vinyl.
qualifications, 58 of whom have attained the FITA fitting qualification Disappointingly, the number of reportable accidents increased in the past 12 months.
Additionally, 54 registered fitters have in the period to 17 2010: 15, and there were four accidents in the successfully completed the vinyl fitting assessment.
We have also Rest of Europe which would have been reportable had they occurred introduced subfloor preparation and door trimming assessment in the UK.
to the fitter training academy.
We remain committed to eliminating all heavy manual handling We have introduced an Academy to train our new estimators, from our stores.
Wherever possible, each of our branches has a the first 28 of whom have now successfully passed through it.
pedestrian operated boom truck to unload and move carpet and vinyl deliveries, and where it has not been possible to provide a Developing committed people truck we have arranged a series of nearby buddy branches to accept As at 30 April 2011 we employed 3,266 people in stores, depots deliveries.
We have also been involved in the design and development and offices throughout the UK & RoI and Europe.
Our aims are to of a new lifting device to lift carpet onto roll stock stands.
Last year ensure everyone has the right skills and knowledge to do their jobs: we anticipated having introduced 200 devices in the year, whereas to offer our people a good range of incentives and benefits and to only 120 were delivered during the year.
We are reviewing our value and promote the diversity of our workforce.
targets for the coming year.
We have continued to roll out our store manager training programme, Respect for the environment with a further 48 managers completing the training this year, We are committed to taking steps to control and minimise any resulting in 189 managers, including senior retail management, damage our operations may cause to the environment through having passed the course.
manufacturing processes, transport, energy usage and packaging.
Staff stability is important to us as a measure of employee loyalty In particular we are aware of the issue of climate change and we and satisfaction and we track retention rates continually.
want to understand and minimise our carbon emissions.
In addition to the recycling of all cardboard tubes and sheet polythene Sourcing great products wrapping reported last year, Harris House, our national Central We are committed to buying great products from suppliers who Support Office, warehouse and cutting facility does not send any operate responsibly.
Our aims are to ensure suppliers are subject waste to landfill, with even general rubbish being compacted and to vetting for satisfactory ethics and procedures: to insist our supply incinerated to produce energy.
chain partners sign up to the Carpetright Codes of Conduct and to ensure we act in a responsible and ethical manner.
We were able to reduce our water consumption in the year by over 3 50,000m, and aim to achieve further reductions in 2011 12.
All suppliers to our UK & RoI businesses have signed up to compliance with our Ethical and Environmental policies, which www.
uk 14 Corporate responsibility continued Our key measures within CR are: 1 Issue Indicator 2011 2010 Progress 2 Providing Great Service Complaints per 1m of sales 12.1 13.1 7.6% fewer complaints 4 Developing Committed People % of employees with 3 year service 71% 62% 9 ppt improvement in staff retention Creating a Safe Place to Work No.
of accidents 172 197 A 12% decrease in the total number & Shop of accidents No.
of reportable accidents 17 15 A disappointing increase, although this remains below the long term average of 28 p. a.
3 Respect for the Environment Energy efficiency kWh sq m 239.3 240.7 0.6% less gas electricity used of sales space Energy efficiency km litre 3.41 3.36 1.2% increase in efficiency of delivery fleet Recycling in tonnes 1,951 2,131 8.4% less polythene sheet and cardboard recycled, primarily due to lower volumes of sales.
All figures are for the UK and RoI only.
Based on estimated meter readings.
More detailed information, notably performance information and future targets, is available in our full CR Report, available to view at www.
Donations Charitable donations of 23,500 2010 : 6,647 were made during the year.
163,000 was also raised for Great Ormond Street Hospital.
No political donations were made 2010 : nil.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011
