12 Principal risks Employees and uncertainties continued IT systems The Group employs 3,266 people and is Carpetright is dependent upon the continued availability and proud of being regarded as a responsible integrity of its computer systems.
The systems implemented and respected employer.
within the UK & RoI are mirrored in a separate location as part of a systems business continuity plan.
By using the experience from the UK & RoI, similar system developments are planned for the European operation.
Equal opportunities The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture Management of liquidity risk and financing that is free from discrimination and harassment, and will not permit Carpetright is dependent on debt financing facilities being available or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Group operates a at a commercially viable rate.
We have introduced robust processes whistleblowing hotline through a third party provider enabling to ensure we effectively manage working capital and maintain employees to raise matters of concern with the Company on a ongoing measurement to ensure the Group can meet its financing named or anonymous basis.
The Company gives full and fair requirements and is compliant with banking covenants.
consideration to applications for employment when these are The Groups Treasury policy is intended to ensure that there are received from disabled people.
Should an employee become disabled while working for the Company, efforts are made to adequate financial resources for the development and growth of the business whilst financing its operations at the lowest cost and continue their employment and retraining is provided, if necessary.
minimising foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The objective is to achieve this without operational disruption or recourse to Training and development Our training and development programmes are focused on giving complex financial instruments.
our staff the skills they need to move up to new roles, enabling them The strategy and policies are approved by the Board.
The Group to develop their careers and ensuring that there is a pipeline of talent does not engage in speculative transactions.
The key financial risks within the Group.
relate to meeting debt repayments as they fall due, interest rate risk and limited foreign currency exposure.
Employee engagement There are a number of communication channels in place to help The Groups term based borrowings are a direct result of the acquisition of businesses in the UK and Europe and the strategic people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement with, the Group.
These channels include staff surveys, the Groups investment in new systems and the warehouse and cutting facility.
The borrowings are denominated in Sterling and Euros.
The Group annual conference, management briefings, weekly briefings from the Chairman and Chief Executive broadcast to stores and offices, and anticipates that there will be sufficient Euro cash flow to pay both the interest on the Euro borrowings and the capital repayment other less formal communications.
Additionally, all annual results and interim management statements are made available to employees amounts due over the life of the underlying loan.
Directors and senior management regularly Any current account deposits generated from the strong operational visit stores and discuss matters of current interest and concern cash flows of the Group are invested in the currency in which they with employees.
are received unless there is a clear need for conversion.
During the year the Group invested these deposits in a combination of overnight Employee share ownership and longer term investment graded accounts arranged via the The Directors believe it is in the interests of both the Group and Groups principal bankers in the countries in which it trades.
the employees for staff to have an opportunity to invest in the Companys shares and operates two all-employee share schemes, Legislative and regulatory risk namely an All Employee Share Ownership Plan and a Savings Whilst Carpetrights industry is not regulated, Carpetright is always Related Share Option Scheme.
Approximately 580 employees mindful of its legal and regulatory obligations.
The Groups Legal participate in these schemes.
Director is responsible for identifying prospective changes to laws and regulations and for bringing those changes to the appropriate forum so that the emerging risk can be addressed.
Of particular note are risks relating to health and safety, competition law and price promotion.
In each case the Company has developed clear policies and guidelines and, where necessary, a compliance programme to mitigate the risks.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011
