Business Review continued Policies and ethical issues The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business, Introduction and policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all Throughout the reporting period the Company continued to levels maintain the standards that are set and which are expected provide support for the ef cient operation of the global capital of them.
markets, which helped to ensure that its clients were able to continue to achieve their own business objectives, and to meet Equal opportunities expectations of their own shareholders and their other Tullett Prebon is committed to attract, retain, develop and advance stakeholders.
the most quali ed persons without regard to their race, ethnicity, religion, or belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability.
This The role of interdealer brokers, such as Tullett Prebon, in commitment is underpinned by policies on equal opportunities, successfully ensuring liquidity in the capital markets, especially at harassment and discrimination, to which all employees are required time of market stress, has been increasingly recognised by to adhere.
organisations involved in the public policy response to the financial crisis.
This has provided the opportunity for the Company, both Ethical issues through its professional bodies in the United Kingdom and the The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate United States, and where appropriate directly, to engage with law governance is speci cally written into policy and Tullett Prebon makers and of cial bodies to seek to ensure new regulations will documents, for observance by all members of staff, and not harm the ef cient functioning of the capital markets which are provides for: in some measure dependent on intermediation provided by companies such as Tullett Prebon.
maintaining high standards of compliance and risk management ultimately the responsibility of the Chief By successfully remaining a critical part of the global capital Executive, and monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: markets infrastructure Tullett Prebon is best able to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term.
As a publicly fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in listed company Tullett Prebon continues to enjoy a positive record each of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the in creating value for both institutional and individual investors.
FSAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the Bank of Englands Non-Investment Products Code: In turn this allows the Company to continue making a signi cant contribution to society through social transfer payments in the disallowing corrupt practices such as inappropriate payments to form of tax remittances.
any third party, directly or indirectly: The Company intends that its high standards of governance and fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in business ethics contribute to the wider social good through the which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of example it sets and the high standards it maintains, both in the taxes from staff remuneration: United Kingdom and in all other geographies where the Company is present, complying with all laws and regulations, trading fairly, trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding its and only participating in legitimate trading activities permitted by trades with its clients.
The Company has a policy of not its various licences.
participating in trading activities which it suspects may not be for legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose appears Governance to be tax reduction by the counterparty: Responsibility for social, ethical and environmental matters rests with the Board, and is included in its Terms of Reference.
The Chief g uiding employees involved in procurement activities, including Executive Of cer is the Board member responsible for Corporate a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical and social and Social Responsibility CSR.
standards: and The Companys CSR Governance Committee, which was maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, established in 2009 in recognition of the increasing importance of entertainment and con icts of interest.
the CSR agenda and which comprises all members of the Companys Executive Committee, oversaw and helped re ne further the CSR activities of the Company in 2011.
This Committee and its members in their executive roles will continue to oversee and guide the CSR activities of the Company, re ecting the continued importance the Company places on this broad and increasingly visible area of responsibility.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 20 Employees Staff welfare remains a serious matter for the Company, especially Attracting and retaining the best brokers, professional and other given the demanding nature of the broking environment.
Day to support staff, and management, remains crucial to the Companys day responsibility for staff welfare and the management of stress ongoing success.
Management recognises that the Companys rests with business line management assisted by the Human ability to maximise returns to shareholders is dependent on Resources department.
This is supplemented by an Employee employing and retaining the best staff in all the geographies in Assistance Programme which provides counselling and advice which it operates.
The Company is committed to developing and to staff and their families, and the use of an occupational health motivating its staff and offers training where appropriate and specialist if required.
The Companys policies on health and safety measures performance to achieve this objective.
provide a formal framework and inform line management in the discharge of their responsibilities in this area.
Building on the management training review conducted in 2009 as part of the succession planning process, and following on from the Records on employment and pastoral care matters are maintained middle management career development programme run across as required in each legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
These help to its European businesses in 2010, which saw some 50 directors and provide senior management with a metric to measure both the desk heads complete a career development and business skills performance and welfare of staff: training programme, senior regional management from the Companys European business undertook further financial analysis In 2011 the average revenue generated by each broker was training in 2011.
This programme has increased general 524,000 2010: 540,000 : management capability across the Companys European business and has assisted in the continued process of succession planning.
The Company employed 2,550 full time equivalent employees and directors worldwide in 2011 48% in Europe, 30% in the In 2011 the Companys new regional Chief Executive Of cer for the Americas and 22% in Asia Paci c compared to 2,461 staff in Americas, having completed the reorganisation of his management 2010 48% in Europe, 30% in North America and 22% in Asia team, initiated a development programme for the regions senior Paci c. Total remuneration for all staff in 2011 was 570m management and also for all desk heads and directors.
To support 2010: 555m : the integration of the new Americas management organisation, and to assist in regional succession planning, an initial career Claims for compensation for work-related accidents and development programme was undertaken during the reporting illnesses remained minimal in 2011 with three claims for period involving 70 key desk heads and directors.
Building on this, in Workers Compensation in the US which resulted in 260 work the subsequent reporting period, the regions senior management days total absence.
There was one such claim in Asia Paci c in team will be offered a financial analysis training programme December but no such claims in the UK.
In 2010 there were only similar to the programme run for the senior management team two claims in the US with none in the UK or Asia Paci c: in Europe and conducted by staff from the same leading business management college in the United Kingdom who were responsible In 2011 there was a further reduction in absence due to short for the training of the European management team.
This will term employee sickness in the UK, in terms of both total days ensure the Companys key managers in its two principal regions will taken and average time off work.
In the UK the Company lost all have received consistent and professional training appropriate 1,452 sick days 2010: 1,679 sick days and the average time off for the management positions that they occupy.
work due to short term sickness was 1.41 days per employee 2010: 1.70 days.
In Asia Paci c 1,213 days were lost due to The productivity and welfare of employees in a business so short term sickness 2010: 1,175 days, an average of 1.60 days dependent on people, such as Tullett Prebon, continued to attract per employee 2010: 2.13 days.
The US does not report short considerable senior management attention throughout the term sickness in the same way as in Asia Paci c or the UK, but in reporting period, and management at all levels undertook active terms of longer term disability sickness the average rate was engagement programmes with employees, a process monitored by 0.45 workdays per employee compared to 1.77 days per regional Chief Executive Of cers.
employee in 2010: and To assist with employee engagement, the Company maintains 2011 saw no minor reported staff accidents in the UK, effective internal communications channels at both Group and compared to 2 in 2010.
Again, no visitors suffered injury on regional levels to ensure staff are informed in a timely way about Company premises during 2011. major developments in the business, such as the launch of new products, organisational changes, key hires, and financial and regulatory announcements.
Information is provided to employees regularly through integrated and complementary channels such as internal emails, the Companys intranet site, print collateral and town hall meetings, as appropriate.
The use made of posters for internal communications across all the Companys of ces, reviewed in 2010, continued into 2011 and is further reinforced by a quarterly-produced Company-wide staff e-newsletter which provides for an enhanced communications channel.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 21 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Business Review continued As the Company is highly dependent on its employees, retention This provides a more qualitative measure as it implicitly re ects of key personnel remains one of managements core tasks.
staff attitudes to employment with the Company, as a dissatis ed 2011 has continued to present challenges in this regard, but workforce would be expected to be highly uid with few longmanagement believes that, in the ordinary course of its business, serving members of staff.
retention policies in general have proved successful in retaining staff at all levels.
Accordingly, the Company records by region percentages of staff that have five and 10 years or more service.
In the US 58.9% To better track the health of the Company in respect of staff 2010: 55.4% of employees have five plus years service, and retention beyond the simple end-of-year headcount numbers, 39.4% 2010: 38.6% have 10 plus years service.
In the UK the which whilst useful as a general guide does not help with percentages are 54.3% 2010: 55.9% and 32.2% 2010: 32.9%, developing an understanding of retention in a qualitative way, and in Asia Paci c the percentages are 34.8% 2010: 41.0% and the Company continues to monitor length of service of all staff.
US UK Asia Paci c 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 5 years service 58.9% 55.4% 54.3% 55.9% 34.8% 41.0% 10 years service 39.4% 38.6% 32.2% 32.9% 13.1% 15.8% To help alleviate the high-stress work environment, the Companys The continued enthusiasm for the UK governments Cycle to Work pastoral care programme has continued to respond to staff scheme further evidences the interest in sport and general tness requests for an improved work life balance and speci cally for across the UK workforce.
A further 70 staff purchased cycles under support with access to improved physical exercise and active this scheme in the reporting period, on top of the 226 who had outdoor pursuits.
The Company recognises the importance previously taken advantage of this scheme in 2009 and 2010. of redressing some of the associated negative effects of the relatively physically inactive desk-based business on its employees.
Across Tullett Prebon some 340 staff were actively engaged in To this end the Company continued to offer its workforce a range Company assisted sporting and tness activities in 2011, and of exercise and general sporting activities.
In addition to the management hopes that the Companys support in this area will personal bene ts that accrue to the individual, the business continue to improve staff welfare and general health, and thereby bene ts of this policy are clear and are evidenced in the dictum contribute to an improved work life balance, and in turn contribute mens sana in corpore sano.
Accordingly, the Company has to the success of the Company.
been keen to support the provision of a broad physical tness programme, especially as the demand for this continues to come The pastoral care programme has also provided support to from employees themselves.
employees in the UK with access to childcare provision and in charitable giving, by the Company running schemes under the Throughout the reporting period the Company provided British UK governments salary sacri ce programme.
In 2011, an increase Military Fitness circuit training for staff in London and, as in each was seen in the number of employees 67 opting for Company year since its implementation in 2009, classes remained at full Childcare Vouchers compared with 37 in 2010.
Again in response to staff demand, in 2011 the Company promotion of the Give as You Earn scheme donations by staff saw initiated a programme of recreational and competitive bike rides an increase of almost four-fold in 2011 with total donations to over spring and summer weekends which were open to employees, charity increasing from 1,959 to 7,383.
The Company believes their families and clients, and these rides provided for all ages that there remains unrealised support for this scheme and it and abilities.
In addition to circuit training and bike events the intends to allocate further resources to its promotion in the Company continued to support participation in a range of subsequent reporting period.
externally-organised sporting activities including the Bloomberg Square Mile Relay, Vertical Rush racing up the stairwell in one of the Citys tallest buildings, and the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge in London, New York and Singapore which have become annual xtures in the Companys sporting calendar.
In addition, throughout 2011, the Company continued the scheme, first introduced in 2009, to provide team clothing to staff taking part in other team and sporting activities.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 22 Community investment Social and community issues Tullett Prebons approach to community investment is informed by Service in the Volunteer Reserve Forces the Companys limited impact on the communities in which it The Company recognises that members of the Volunteer Reserve operates and by the resources and expertise at its disposal.
There Forces in the UK and the US the two countries that account for are several strands to the Companys community investment around 80% of Tullett Prebons revenues continue to provide a programme: critical component of the Armed Forces of both countries.
The Companys direct engagement in the public policy response In line with its commitment to support members of the Volunteer to the financial crisis has sought to make a balanced and factual Reserve Forces, which forms part of the terms of employment in contribution to a process hitherto often ill informed and not the Staff Handbook, and its membership of the UK Ministry of unconstrained by political dogma: Defences employers organisation SaBRE which seeks to foster a good relationship between employers, employees and the Armed Engagement with the local community in London where the Forces, the Company supported the return to work of one of its Company is headquartered and where it has its biggest employees who had been mobilised for service with a front line concentration of personnel and therefore where it has its infantry regiment in a combat role in Afghanistan.
In particular biggest impact on a local community, has been to become the Companys Chief Executive Of cer hosted a reception for him, actively involved with the Corporation of London which which was attended by some 100 of his colleagues, to welcome provides the local authority services for Londons financial him back to work.
This reception presented a set-piece opportunity district, and which has an extensive community and charitable for the individual to present to his colleagues on his tour of duty programme, by fully supporting the Citys unique business and for his colleagues to learn about his experiences in the British electoral franchise: Army at first-hand.
The Corporation of London has in addition an effective public Tax and other social payments policy programme in connection with its husbandry of Londons The Company continues to strive to maintain a Low Risk rating financial services industry and the Company continues to from HMRC.
The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each support the Corporations efforts in this regard, in particular in of the last six years since HMRC started to publish the names of coordination with its professional body the Wholesale Markets those companies achieving this important status.
Brokers Association WMBA : The Board continues to believe that as Tullett Prebon is registered, In place of any formal regular survey of staff opinion the regulated and publicly listed in the UK, the Company has a social Companys senior management team led by the Chief Executive duty to pay the right tax at the right time.
Of cer has an active programme of engagement with employees, and for example the Chief Executive Of cer, Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities principally in the together with his senior managers, participates in many of the UK and US, the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2011 of staff-led sports and exercise opportunities provided by the 290m 2010: 267m, and 2009 of just under 280m, covering Company this it is felt provides for very direct and qualitative corporation tax, employers social security payments, and income opinion sharing which is all the more effective because of the taxes and social security paid on behalf of employees.
nature of honest debate found in a company where people are not slow in coming forward with their views: and In addition the Company makes further income tax and employee social security payments to the tax authorities in all tax Continued support for the wider UK economy is evidenced by jurisdictions in which it operates.
the Companys involvement with the British Marine Industry and speci cally by the support it provides to the British Marine Donations Federations BMF annual London Boat Show.
The show at The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations ExCel in Docklands, an area of London where Tullett Prebons to political parties.
Similarly, charitable donations are not normally clients and associated business are heavily concentrated, allows allowed.
These two policies re ect the Boards view that the Company to assist the BMF in showcasing a successful and shareholders funds should be retained for use within the business largely manufacturing sector of the UK economy responsible for and that it is for shareholders to determine what non-business use employing 33,000 people and exporting goods and services in should be made of their resources.
The support the Company provides to this large national event enables Tullett Prebon to support British industry as part of a wider public policy agenda and at the same time to build on client and staff engagement and support an industry important to the wider UK economy outside the narrow con fines of financial services.
All clients and employees with their families are invited to attend the event, which has further merit in the context of the Companys staff sport and tness programme as the Boat Show is co-located with the Outdoors Show and the London Bike Show.
2011 was the third year the Company has supported the Boat Show as part of a four-year commitment.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Public policy engagement The Companys public policy engagement programme will continue Tullett Prebon continued its engagement in the public policy into the subsequent reporting period as required by the debate debate surrounding the future of the financial services sector.
surrounding the reform and regulation of the financial services Notwithstanding being a relatively small UK listed entity, the sector, to ensure that the Company is able to continue to develop Company, using its position at the very heart of the capital and to grow shareholder value.
markets which gives it an informed view available to very few others, was consistently able to punch above its weight.
Environment Tullett Prebon, as an of ce-based business, is not engaged in Continuing the pattern established in the previous reporting activities that are generally regarded as having a high period, the Company concentrated on three strands of public environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that policy activity during 2011: it will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory requirements or where such policies are Deepening involvement with the several trade and other commercially sensible.
professional bodies that the Company is a member of.
In particular further financial support was provided to the WMBA The emission of greenhouse gases GHG, as a result of in the UK, and to the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association of ce-based business activities and from business travel, of the Americas WMBAA in North America, who are the is the main environmental impact from the Companys business.
Both of these organisations A stringent cost control regime continues to be in force and now have active and well resourced lobby programmes seeking this minimises business travel in favour of video and to engage with lawmakers, of cials and regulators in their telephone conferencing.
In addition, the Company has continued to develop its involvement with other key professional and The Group-wide environmental policy, developed with the industry speci c bodies in all geographies in which it operates.
assistance of specialist external consultants in 2010, was updated Focusing the Companys representation in the key trade bodies in 2011 to re ect new organisational structures, as was the in one member of the Companys Executive Committee has environmental policy speci cally for the UK.
The Companys continued to ensure coordinated, focused and effective procurement policy continues to contain a strong statement in advocacy throughout the reporting period: support of the environmental policy and makes clear that the Companys procurement choices will favour products showing The Companys Chief Executive Of cer continued his clear environmental advantages unless there are signi cant engagement in public debate on issues relevant to the financial reasons for not doing so.
services sector, where appropriate and where opportunity arose, and in particular dialogue was opened with all mainstream Anticipating the introduction of Carbon Reduction Commitment political parties in the UK regarding policy development around CRC obligations on UK companies in April 2010, the Company economic and financial services issues: and took advice from professional specialist consultants and was prepared to comply with CRC requirements when the scheme The Companys Global Head of Research, who was recruited came into force.
In respect of the Climate Change Act 2008, as into a new post established in 2009 to increase the Companys in 2010, during the reporting period the Company undertook visibility in the public policy arena, was again active, publishing preparations to meet the expected new reporting requirements by papers addressing the principal economic themes of 2011. continuing the necessary monitoring of its GHG emissions.
With The two research products developed in 2010 continued to be the reporting obligations of these two new pieces of legislation in published during the reporting period: Strategy Insights, larger mind, the Company completed a third carbon footprint and GHG and in-depth papers of which three were published in 2011: and audit in its key geographies in 2011.
This will allow it to compare Strategy Notes, shorter than Strategy Insights and quicker to its emissions with its benchmark year of 2008, and, in respect of write, and designed to respond to issues of the moment, of the Climate Change Act 2008, to comply with the new reporting which 10 were published in the reporting period.
Two additional requirements expected to come into force in 2012. products were developed in 2011: Occasional Papers, of which one was published during 2011: and the UK Economic and Fiscal Database.
Considerable traction was achieved with these products and the Companys visibility in serious political commentary continued to increase as a consequence.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 24 Over the last three reporting periods the Companys environmental The Group is dependent upon certain information, communication management system EMS has been successful in achieving and IT system providers and operates from a limited number of overall savings in energy use at the Companys two largest properties.
The Group seeks to ensure its systems are robust and properties in the UK.
However, energy consumption across the are capable of operation from tested business continuity sites.
London estate increased by 0.1% during 2011 equivalent to 688 re ecting the increased evening and weekend working which had The Group relies on a number of international banks to provide become necessary to support improvements to the Companys banking services and credit facilities.
The committed facilities are IT and BCM infrastructure, and also in the development and provided by five banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds Banking deployment of the new Electronic Broking platforms required by the Group, HSBC, Bank of America and the Australia and New Zealand Companys clients in anticipation of new regulatory requirements Banking Group.
Further analysis of the Groups debt structure can in Europe and the US.
Overall, the savings in annual energy be found in Note 23. consumption between 2009 and 2011 remain at over 59,000.
Terry Smith For the first time the Company is able to report on recycling for Chief Executive paper and Waste Electronic Electrical Equipment WEEE.
During 6 March 2012 the reporting period the Company, with the assistance of a specialist contractor, recycled 66,840kg of paper which is an estimated saving of 53,323kg of CO2 emissions.
Also, during this period 4,887kg of WEEE was recycled, a 36.8% increase from the Companys 2010 WEEE recycling gure.
It is intended to use both these recycling gures as reference data for future reporting.
Contractual or other arrangements essential to the business of the Group The success of the Company relies on maintaining certain contractual and other arrangements within individual entities and across the Group relating to revenue generation, operational performance and nancing.
The successful generation of revenue relies on the Groups ability to hire and retain highly quali ed employees.
Employment costs made up 78% of the Groups administration expenses in 2011.
The Company seeks to put in place contractual arrangements with its personnel, including in certain circumstances xed term contracts, non-compete arrangements and performance-related compensation which is used to enhance the Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel.
The Group facilitates a nite number of customer relationships.
These relationships are serviced over a wide range of products and across a geographically diverse business.
The ef ciency of the Groups operations depends on certain key supplier relationships.
The Group is reliant upon a number of financial institutions for the clearing and settlement of its transactions, most notably the DTCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, and certain key banking relationships.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Governance In this section: 27 Board of Directors 28 Directors Report 30 Corporate Governance Report 36 Report on Directors Remuneration 43 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 26
