Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW BU ILDING TRUST I N OUR BUSINESS Mary Francis CBE vulnerable customers: securing future EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND Senior Independent energy supplies: and reducing carbon PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Director and Chairman emissions through decarbonising our We want our stakeholders to be of the Corporate power generation activities and helping con dent that our metrics accurately Responsibility Committee ee customers cut their energy usage.
Therefore, we asked Deloitte LLP to provide limited We expect energy pricing to continue to Centricas corporate assurance, using the International have a high pro le in 2012 and helping our responsibility ambition is to Standard on Assurance Engagements customers manage their energy costs will ISAE 3000, on the most important be the most trusted energy be a priority.
However, we will not neglect key performance indicators that have other important challenges.
Although we are a material impact on our business.
Key British Gas does not currently enjoy the facing signi cant challenges performance measures are included in level of trust to which we aspire and we will this section, with a full table available across our businesses, we therefore devote signi cant effort in 2012 on pages 136 and 137. understand the impact our tostrengthen faith in our business.
Deloittes full assurance statement activities have on the societies The following pages describe the progress and the Basis of Reporting are we serve and the environments Centrica made in managing corporate available in our online Annual Report responsibility issues in 2011. in which we operate, and we at www.
com report2011 know we must contribute to assurance.
During 2011, we continued to focus on ourmost material issues: treating our Mary Francis CBE customers with fairness, with a focus Chairman of the Corporate onthe cost of energy and supporting Responsibility Committee 30 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED also helps us ensure CR is integral to our communities and non governmental TRUST normal business activities.
organisations NGOs, to maintain a Our corporate responsibility CR ambition comprehensive understanding of our to be the most trusted energy company is Centricas Executive Committee, chaired material issues and their impact in the rooted in sound business sense.
We need by the Chief Executive, has overall widerenvironment.
to be trusted by our customers for them responsibility for implementing CR strategy.
to continue to choose us as their supplier, The Board of Directors oversees the strategy Stakeholder engagement and by governments and regulators for and programmes through its Corporate In late 2010, we strengthened our links our views and recommendations to carry Responsibility Committee, chaired by with stakeholders by establishing a CR weight.
In achieving a broad foundation the Senior Independent Director.
Members are drawn from of trust we can ensure sustainable Committee makes recommendations on our key stakeholder groups and provide businesssuccess.
CR strategy to the Board, and monitors regular feedback and guidance on CR the implementation of strategy and Group issues, strategy and performance.
The To build our stakeholders trust, we must: performance.
In 2011, we intensi ed the group met three times in 2011, and advised work harder to communicate clearly with Committees focus on longer-term on issues including biomass power them: and strategic issues.
generation, climate change policy and customer privacy.
recognise the key social and Details of the Committee members are environmental issues which concern set out on pages 42 and 43.
We regularly British Gas Customer Panel, created to them, and deliver on our commitments.
review the Committees composition and, gaindeeper insight into customer opinion, during 2011, Margherita Della Valle joined discussed a range of topics in 2011 2011 saw a continued erosion of British the Committee.
Grant Dawson, Centricas including future pricing trends, smart consumers trust in all energy suppliers.
General Counsel & Company Secretary, metering, British Gas community projects Research shows the reputation of UK joined the Committee on 1 January 2012 and central heating installation.
energy companies, including British Gas, insuccession to Catherine May who left is increasingly affected by energy prices We maintained our dialogue with socially inDecember 2011. and the perceived lack of fairness in pricing responsible investment organisations structures.
In response, we reassessed the Assessing material risks andcovered CR issues at a number of key issues essential to our vision of becoming andopportunities mainstream shareholder presentations.
the most trusted energy company.
These Our business involves us in a wide range Wewill continue to participate in selected are set out in the diagram below with each ofsocial, environmental and ethical issues.
indices such as FTSE4Good and the Carbon area examined in more detail in the Individual business units are responsible Disclosure Project CDP demonstrating following sections, along with information foridentifying material issues of concern to transparency and benchmarking our on our approach to CRgovernance.
stakeholders and assessing the robustness performance.
We were pleased to improve of our risk management.
The Centrica our CDP score for the fifth successive year CR GOVERNANCE, STRATEGY Executive Committee and our CR teams and to achieve a top 10 position in the AND RISK contribute to these assessments, working 2011 CDP Leadership Global500 Index.
We have strong governance and internal closely with our business risk teams.
communications systems to make sure Business principles weapply our values consistently and We engage regularly with stakeholder Centricas business principles, highlighted canreconcile con icting priorities in a groups, including governments, regulators, on page 4, fide ne our culture and guide responsible manner.
Effective governance investors, business partners, local our decision-making.
All senior managers must sign a declaration that they understand OUR MATERIAL ISSUES and will adhere to the principles.
We have a thorough anti-bribery and To be the most trusted energy company corruption training programme to embed high standards of behaviour in our external dealings and ensure compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the 2010 UK Bribery Act.
More than 97% of Centrica senior managers have so far completed the training.
Energy for Treating LEAD ISSUES a low customers We operate a 24 7 Speak Up programme carbon world fairly that enables any employee to raise concerns regarding non-compliance with our business Safety Energy supply People principles, with an independent third party.
All Supported by responsible business practices cases were resolved and closed, leading eg.
stakeholder engagement, responsible procurement, to disciplinary action for one employee assessment of new technology and business and the dismissal of threeemployees.
Underpinned by values, business principles and behaviours Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Business Review TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Breaking down the bill Trust is essential to the health and growth of our business.
Unless customers trust our More than 80% of the costs that service expertise and advice, they will not make up a UK customers bill have con dence in the innovative products both gas and electricity are we provide to help them change the ways outside our immediate control.
Unless they trust our ability This includes the cost of wholesale to source sustainable and reliable energy energy around half the bill plus supplies and price them fairly, they will not regulated transportation costs, and choose us to supply gas and electricity to government obligations and taxes.
Unless they Costs of regulatory environmental trust our skills and reliability, they will not initiatives amounted to 77 on the call on our engineers to install and maintain average dual fuel bill in 2011.
current policies, these are likely to increase substantially, doubling In the UK, the reputation of energy over the next three years.
companies, including British Gas, is increasingly dominated by the question Example based on industry average consumption of 16,500 kWh per year and on average regional of energy prices and by perceived levels prices.
Breakdown gures are indicative as at September 2011 and are based on actual costs from of complexity and fairness.
We understand January to September 2011 and forecast costs for October to December 2011.
Pro t gure based on average pro ts for gas and electricity supply after tax from 2006 to 2010. theconcerns and in 2012 will focus on: addressing and where possible we will continue to price fairly and work and transparent.
This is re ected in the reducing the complexities of harder to explain energy prices clearly.
stable levels of our pro t margins in recent energypricing: years.
When we can reduce prices, we do A small proportion of the customers bill in supporting our more vulnerable and we have cut them four times since 2009. the UK, averaging around 5%, represents customers to help them pay for energy, the post-tax pro t we make a gure that Price changes are also subject to close manage their energy consumption and we have consistently stated is necessary to external scrutiny and we note that the UK better insulate their homes: and maintain our business on a sustainablebasis.
Regulator, Ofgem, has found no evidence improving customer service and of price collusion in the market in successive We also recognise that some stakeholders communicating clearly with all our industry investigations.
In January 2012, nevertheless believe that energy suppliers customers in our marketing and billing.
an independent review of suppliers energy are too quick to increase customer prices accounts by the accountancy rm BDOLLP, Addressing the complexities when wholesale prices rise, and too slow to commissioned by Ofgem, found that the ofenergy pricing pass on reductions.
We buy gas in advance financial information provided by suppliers The UK has the most competitive in order to secure supplies, and this means was fair, appropriate and consistent with residential energy market, and the lowest that there is a recurring lead lag element of cial numbers.
We had already welcomed residential gas prices in Europe.
We cannot between price changes and current market Ofgems moves to increase transparency on shield our customers from the long-term movements.
We review all price changes the reporting of energy company pro ts as trend towards higher energy prices, but with great care to ensure that they are fair this is important in building customer trust.
widely in the national press to highlight our Price structures and clearer initiatives and communicate key messages.
communications In November 2011, the Managing Director We also recognise that there is concern of British Gas made a direct commitment to and potential confusion about the number UK customers to communicate clearly, to and structure of energy tariffs.
British Gas explain underlying movements in energy has responded to this.
prices, and help them reduce their energy We reduced the number of tariffs we offer costs.
We called this initiative the honest and introduced a simple online tariff conversation and have pledged at the checker to help customers nd the best same time to do all we can working with tariff for their needs.
We are also reviewing the UK Government and Regulator to our two-tier tariff structure with a view to meet the challenge of securing national developing one that is easier for customers energy supplies.
to understand and compare with other offers.
We provide afull breakdown of costs Our online tariff checker is @ in customer bills and have advertised www.
co. uk betterdeal 32 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Working with the Regulator Financial support The role of Ofgem is to protect the We provide direct financial support to interests of consumers, wherever possible vulnerable customers through the Warm by promoting competition.
Centrica is Home Discount scheme WHD which 1.7MILLION committed to working with Ofgem to wasintroduced during 2011 under the ensure that the Regulators concerns UKEnergy Act, 2010. and the needs of our customers are We support the UK Government approach met.
Aswell as promoting fairness and of enabling the 120 WHD credit to be competition, one of our key objectives is paid to those on Pension Credit Guarantee toensure that we remain able to run our During 2011, 1.7 million vulnerable and are proud to have introduced the business pro tably.
This is essential so households were helped by British most extensive WHD broader group we can invest in costly but necessary Gas initiatives criteria in the industry which allow more future energy supplies and maintain the families to bene t. In 2011, we spent more con dence of our shareholders and than 80million providing 250,000 lenders who provide uswith capital.
Helping our vulnerable customers customers with the WHD and supporting In the UK, our strategy is to provide During 2011 we engaged fully with more than 330,000 vulnerable customers targeted assistance to vulnerable Ofgems review of the UK retail energy on Essentials, our social discounted tariff.
customers to ensure the help they receive market, and continue to do so.
As This was considerably more than any is appropriate to their needs.
We do this described on page 31, British Gas is otherUK energy supplier spent and far mainly through the energy ef ciency and already acting to simplify its tariffs and beyond our equivalent market share.
financial support schemes described below.
make them easier tounderstand and We also provide a range of initiatives such In addition, we are helping more than compare.
This is in addition to our ongoing as payment plans and assistance for 500,000 vulnerable households in debt work improving the energy ef ciency of disabled customers which we deliver both through exible payment plans and wider our customers homes and the financial directly and through charities and other support through our British Gas Energy support we provide to those considered third parties.
In 2011, 1.7 million vulnerable Trust, a registered charity funded by fuelpoor.
households 1.6 million in 2010 were donations from British Gas to which we While supporting the intent behind helped by British Gas initiatives.
contributed 20 million at the end of 2010.
Ofgems proposals, we believe the We have maintained our prepayment tariffs Energy ef ciency proposals as they stand may have serious at the same rate as conventional cash Energy ef ciency support for low-income unintended consequences, speci cally orcheque tariffs since early 2010 even and vulnerable customers is primarily theRegulators proposals to introduce though these accounts cost us more provided through two UK Government wide-ranging restrictions to the tariff toservice.
schemes: the Carbon Emissions Reduction market.
We believe it is in our customers Target CERT and the Community Energy We go to extensive lengths to keep interests to offer them a reasonable choice Saving Programme CESP.
Although customer supplies connected and have of tariffs, dual fuel discounts and further mandatory, the schemes represent a not disconnected a single UK customer discounts for example if they choose signi cant social investment for British Gas for debt in nearly two years.
As a result paperless billing through an online tariff.
and are a core part of our responsibility of our proactive approach and talking to Unless customers are prepared to be tied tocustomers.
customers who are having dif culty with into a xed term contract, all of these their bills, fewer customers were in debt offerings will disappear should Ofgems Through our CERT scheme, we provide at the end of 2011 than 2010, despite proposed approach be implemented.
energy ef ciency services such as installing the worsening economy.
new boilers and heating appliances, as well The development of new tariffs is also an as insulation, energy saving light bulbs, In Texas, Direct Energys Neighbor-toimportant way to ensure bene ts can be home appliances and devices.
Part of the Neighbor programme supports customers realised from new technologies.
We are CERT commitment involves the provision facing financial hardships.
Theprogramme particularly concerned that one of the of insulation and other measures to our works with more than 30 community important bene ts of smart meters, to most vulnerable households.
In 2011, agencies to screen recipients and administer enable customers to take advantage of we provided household energy ef ciency the funds up to $600 per home a year time of use pricing, will be removed by the products with equivalent lifetime carbon available to help vulnerable customers proposals.
As well as making the adoption savings of 14.6 million tonnes.
In 2011, we spent of smart meters less attractive, this will $425,000 on this programme and Direct reduce customers incentive to consume CESP eligibility is based on geographic Energy customers can also support the more energy in off-peak periods.
locations derived from deprivation indices programme by making donations to and British Gas works closely with local We will continue to work with Ofgem Neighbor-to-Neighbor through their authorities and registered social landlords onthese issues in 2012 with a view to energybills.
CESP aims to developing a package of reforms that retro t energy ef ciency measures in some meets the needs of all customers.
of the most deprived communities in the UK.
In 2011, we delivered almost 1.4 million tonnes of lifetime carbon savings through thescheme.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Business Review WE CONTINUE TO WORK TOWARDS A LOW CARBON SOCIETY BY PROMOTING CUSTOMER ENERGY EFFICIENCY, DECARBONISING OUR GENERATION MIX AND CUTTING OUR OWN EMISSIONS FROM PROPERTY, FLEET AND TRAVEL Our aim is to maintain a culture where specialised trenching equipment to install Ethical sales our employees strive to offer customers cable ducts under the salt marsh and sea In the UK, our dedicated sales quality the best possible service.
We track defences for the Lincs offshore wind team oversees compliance with the customer perception of our service by farmconstruction.
Treating Customers Fairly principles, using net promoter scores NPS, which British Gas sales code of practice and Centrica Energy is also seeking consent measure a customers willingness to Ofgems requirements for best practice.
tobuild and operate a new dedicated recommend us.
NPS enables us to biomass-fuelled  Despite our efforts, we do still receive compare our performance with direct station on the site of our existing gasred complaints.
Typical issues in our sector competitors in each market and with our power station at Barrow-in-Furness, in include inadequate explanation of own performance year-on-year.
We are conducting wide-ranging contracts and payment terms.
In 2011, Gas NPS improved in 2011 with an annual local consultation to ensure the proposal is there were only 28 accepted sales average score of 26, despite customer transparent and the project fully understood complaints, a reduction from 62 in 2010. concerns around increasing energy prices.
Direct Energy NPS ended 2011 at 28, After reviewing our sales operation, we a signi cant improvement on2010.
ACHIEVING REDUCTIONS IN announced in August 2011 that British Gas CARBON EMISSIONS would terminate unsolicited doorstep selling.
We also track the volume of complaints Our business has a substantial We now only visit customers at home with across all our businesses and accept there environmental impact.
In 2011, we were a prior appointment.
have been failings within our British Gas responsible for approximately 7.9million Business BGB division.
Since discovering In North America, where door-to-door tonnes of carbon dioxide CO2 equivalent we were not operating in line with the sales remain a more accepted sales emissions down from approximately regulations in 2010, BGB has upgraded all channel, energy suppliers are subject to 10.9million tonnes in 2010 arising from its complaints handling systems, processes stringent consumer protection laws and our gas and oil operations, our electricity and training in order to identify all expressions mandatory sales processes.
We are working generation and the energy we use in our of dissatisfaction.
This investment has seen with legislators to implement consistent business activities.
We continue to work a step change in our approach to complaint consumer protection laws across our towards a low carbon society by promoting handling with systems in place to ensure markets and employ third-party veri cation customer energy ef ciency, decarbonising that we comply fully with Ofgemrules.
and quality checks on salesagents.
our generation mix and cutting our own SECURING UK ENERGY emissions from property, eet and travel.
Customer service SUPPLIES We have made signi cant improvements Customer carbon New forms of energy, such as shale gas, in standards of service in recent years.
Our The most signi cant carbon emissions wind and biomass, present opportunities innovations in 2011 included addressing associated with the energy industry arise for energy security and a lower-carbon customer service queries through social from customers gas and electricity usage.
However, they also raise signi cant media and providing how to videos on Helping our customers to manage their social and environmental concerns.
We basic central heating maintenance.
energy use and generate their own energy areworking hard to ensure that all our gas from renewable sources is essential to production and energy generation activities achieving a low carbon society.
are carefully planned and managed to avoid adverse impacts.
For example, we agreed with Natural England to use NPS calculation methodology and scope for British Gas has altered in 2011, 2010 data on page 136 has been restated at the new scope 34 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED In 2011 our Group carbon intensity was 221g CO2 kWh, compared to 277g CO2 kWh in 2010, a signi cant 20% reduction.
We continued to reduce the carbon 14.
6 M 20% intensity of our UK power generation eet, achieving 200g CO2 kWh.
This reduction was mainly due to the first full years offtake We aim to reduce the carbon of nuclear power from our 20% stake in footprint of our existing of ces, TONNES EDF Energy Nuclear Generation formerly company vehicles and travel known as British Energy and the effect In 2011, we provided of placing a number of gasred power by 20% by 2015 stations into preservation mode for household energy ef ciency Total carbon emissions in 2011 was periods of the year.
products in the UK with 95,234 tonnes, a 5% reduction Carbon footprint from buildings, from2010.
equivalent lifetime carbon company vehicles and travel savings of 14.6 million tonnes We measure emissions relating to our range of injuries, not just those that result operations by calculating our internal in lost time, provides a more complete carbon footprint, including emissions from We offer a range of services to increase picture and aids future prevention.
of ce energy use, company vehicles and energy ef ciency, including insulation and business travel.
We are working hard to Initiatives across the Group in 2011 led to energy ef cient appliances.
These are the reduce this footprint by raising awareness a reduction in our LTIR to 0.25 per 100,000 most effective ways for residential and among employees, making our of ces hours worked, down from 0.43 in 2010.
Our business customers to cut energy use and more energy ef cient, investing in lowerTRIR was 1.66 per 100,000 hours worked reduce energy bills.
The UK Government carbon vehicles and providing alternatives in 2011.
Themajority of incidents continue sees energy ef ciency as key to meeting to business travel.
to occur among our service and repair its carbon reduction targets and has workforce, who face particular risks from regulated accordingly.
Our support for the Our target is to cut the emissions from driving and working in the unfamiliar main domestic energy saving schemes buildings, company vehicles and travel in environment of customers homes or the CERT and CESP is described on our core business by 20% by 2015 from businesses.
We also expanded our reporting page32.
In 2011 we achieved scope for 2011, incorporating safety a5% reduction year-on-year, a 19% Power generation performance for our third party managed reduction against the baseline.
Total Most electricity is still generated by burning activities not directly controlled byCentrica.
To achieve a low carbon future, There were no fatal incidents among Centrica use of fossil fuel energy sources, particularly MAKING SAFETY A CORE VALUE Group employees or associated third party coal, must be greatly reduced.
To move Our operations both upstream and activities in 2011.
Very regrettably, in the towards that goal, we are investing in downstream are inherently hazardous and US a member of the public was killed in a offshore wind capacity and evaluating we fully accept our responsibility to protect road accident involving one of our employees.
options in new nuclear and biomass.
the health and safety of our employees, contractors and customers, aswell as the Safety at our assets and Decarbonising power generation will take wider public.
Safety is a top priority with the operations time.
Throughout the process, we must Centrica Board which has direct oversight High-pro le incidents such as the blowout maintain our ability to meet our customers of our health and safety performance.
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig have immediate energy demands.
Gas will remain put the spotlight on process safety.
After an important part of the energy mix because Safety risks range from slips, trips, falls athorough review of our systems and it is the least carbon-intensive of the fossil androad safety incidents in our customerprocedures in high-hazard operations, fuels, it helps achieve energy security and facing businesses to a major incident at weenhanced the monitoring of safety can provide the essential exible back-up our oil, gas and power-generation facilities.
performance among our contractors to intermittent wind generation.
The majority of Centrica employees work andfurther promoted a culture in which inour customer-facing businesses within We measure progress towards our ambition employees and contractors feel able to British Gas and Direct Energy.
The safety to decarbonise energy by monitoring the challenge unsafe practices.
of our customers in their homes is also of carbon intensity of the power we generate.
Our 20% stake in the nuclear joint venture This includes the carbon emissions from all with EDF involves speci c safety challenges our own generation facilities and from other We report the total recordable injury rate at existing nuclear power stations.
While facilitieswhere we have site-speci c TRIR in addition to the standard lost time we do not operate any of these facilities, powerpurchase agreements.
Recording a broader we have a responsibility asa minority Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Business Review shareholder with board representation other group.
We give full and fair Skills and development on EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Group consideration to applications for Continuous learning and development is Limited to monitor and oversee safety employment made by disabled people.
If essential to ensure all our employees have performance.
After the tragic events at the an employee becomes disabled while in the opportunity to ful l their potential and Fukushima power station in Japan, the our employment we offer, wherever are equipped with the right skills and joint venture and theOf ce for Nuclear possible, support, retraining, equipment behaviours to help us grow our business Regulation ONR conducted thorough and facilities to enable their employment and implement our strategy.
stress tests to ensure the continued to continue.
Our Diversity and Inclusion Developing our leaders is important to us.
For more detailed policy further outlines our commitments Our talent boards, general management information, visitEDFEnergys website ondiversity.
programme and leadership master classes at www.
Age discrimination can be a barrier even are designed to identify and nurture our In September 2011, the UK Government among younger workers.
We encourage the high-potential managers.
published the Weightman report, which was retention and recruitment of older people, positive for the UK nuclear industry, giving a The services we provide for customers, recognising the valuable experience they clear endorsement of the safety culture and such as installing and maintaining their bring to Centrica.
British Gas has taken a current performance.
We have pledged, leading role in removing upper age limits heating, electricity, plumbing and meters, with our partner EDF Energy, toproactively for our apprenticeship schemes in the UK.
implement the 26 recommendations in More than a third of our apprentice engineers Across the UK, British Gas network of DrWeightmans report.
are over the age of 25 when they join.
engineering academies trains apprentices to become service engineers.
In 2012, Driver safety Improving womens representation at wewill be offering up to 500 new Driving is one of the most hazardous alllevels remains a priority.
We focus on apprenticeships in smart technologies.
activities that many of our employees face.
leadership training, recruitment, exible Road accidents are a signi cant risk for working and employee network groups.
Employee engagement British Gas and Direct Energy engineers who Achieving gender balance among engineers We measure employee engagement regularly drive to support our customers.
We is particularly challenging because through Group surveys.
Feedback enables prioritise high mileage employees, together engineering remains a predominantly us to gauge the level of commitment to the with new drivers, those changing vehicle male profession.
A dedicated diversity Company and identify areas where we type and other high-risk drivers, to complete and inclusion team at our British Gas need to improve.
We are also Academy is working to improve the In 2011, as planned, we did not conduct a enforcing a policy to prevent the use of representation of female engineers.
any form of mobile phone while driving Group-wide employee engagement survey on companybusiness.
but undertook a strategic review of how we measure employee engagement as a tool In 2011, we recorded a low severity road to drive business performance.
The outputs safety incident rate of 7.5 per 1 million MORE CR of this review will inform how we use the kilometres driven, and 10 incidents of high survey results to improve and increase the severity.
We aim to reduce this in 2012 through READ MORE ABOUT quality of our future engagement.
continued focus on working practices, training and communications campaigns.
Employees receive regular communication OUR CR ACTIVITIES and consultation through a wide variety of OUR EMPLOYEES AT CENTRICA.
Company business and financial In 2011, we employed an average of 39,432 performance is communicated to all employees during the year.
The retention Other signi cant aspects employees using online media, printed rate was 89.5%, compared to 89.9% in 2010. of our businesses and CR materials and face-to-face brie ngs with During 2011, we conducted a thorough activities include management members of the Executive Committee.
review to ensure our cost base remains Most employees are eligible to participate of the supply chain, low so we can offer competitive prices in employee share schemes to further their environmental management and products.
The review concluded that commitment to Centricas performance.
accountability for decision-making should lie and community engagement with our operating businesses, supported Diversity and investment.
Please see by a leaner corporate centre.
Toachieve We aim to provide an inclusive and diverse our online CR Report for these goals, we needed to make some workplace and are committed to making the more information: dif cult decisions that resulted in some principle of equal opportunity a reality inour employees leaving the business.
We will not tolerate discrimination never an easy process and we made against people with disabilities, subject to Full key performance measures in appendix every effort to support those affected.
health and safety considerations, or any on pg 136
