Delivering our strategy People We are further developing a talented and diverse workforce in a high performance culture With approximately 57,200 people in over 100 countries worldwide, we value the talents, skills and capabilities that a global workforce brings to our business.
Our people strategy, which Engaged employees, who defines our approach to managing our workforce and supports the delivery of our business are true to our core values, strategy, is built around four key priorities which supported by accountable we believe are critical: acquiring and retaining key capabilities and talent: further developing and empowered leaders leadership and management capabilities: driving performance, improving the strength and diversity of the talent underpin the continued pipeline: and improving employee engagement while building a high performance culture.
success of our business Managing significant change in the organisations workforce is also something to which considerable management attention is directed.
We use a range of metrics to track progress against these priorities, which are reported quarterly to the SET.
Acquiring and retaining key capabilities and talent During 2011, we hired approximately 6,400 permanent employees to replace leavers, to fuel the expansion of our business in Emerging Markets and to build the new capabilities required to implement our strategy successfully.
With 1,400 of the new hires having joined AstraZeneca in China and 400 in Russia, we have developed a Lynn Tetrault range of innovative approaches to ensure that we have an attractive Executive Vice-President, Human Resources employer brand globally and to help us achieve our ambitious growth & Corporate Affairs plans in these markets.
During the course of the year, we have also successfully attracted key talent to supplement critical capabilities across the business, including in payer excellence and personalised healthcare, and to refresh our leadership pipeline in key areas.
In parallel, we have invested significant management time over the last 84% 12 months to better understand the key drivers influencing employees Employee engagement FOCUS score rose to 84% decisions to leave across the business, particularly in markets where conditions are most volatile.
We have implemented a range of initiatives to minimise the risks to the business from such attrition.
Employees by geographical area % Further developing leadership and management capabilities We encourage and support our people in achieving their full potential 1.6 2.9 UK by providing a range of learning and development L&D programmes.
Sweden 13.4 These are designed to build the capabilities and encourage the Rest of Europe behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
North America 13.3 Latin America 21.4 Asia Africa & Middle East 6.2 Australasia 16.9 24.3 40 Delivering our strategy People AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review We have a global approach, supported by the creation of our global We measure levels of engagement, the effectiveness of our talent and development organisation, to ensure that high standards communications and other areas critical to the performance of our of L&D practice are applied across the organisation.
We continue to business, such as leadership and management capabilities, through develop and deploy instructor-led and online development resources, our FOCUS survey.
The results are communicated to all employees.
which we aim to make available to all employees to increase access Ninety one percent of our people participated in 2011.
Our employee engagement score increased by one percentage point from 2010, to learning and to support self-development.
The leadership category score improved by two percentage points and the leadership communication score, We recognise the importance of good leadership and its critical role in stimulating high levels of performance and engagement.
which was identified as a priority after last years survey, improved by four percentage points.
In 2012, we will build on this further, with Our leadership development frameworks are focused on the core capabilities which we believe are essential for strong and effective particular emphasis on clarity of direction and prioritisation from leadership teams.
These capabilities are defined for each level in the organisation and apply to all our employees.
A further area of attention in 2011 was work-life balance, given scores Alongside judicious hiring of new leaders into critical senior roles, such in this area had declined between 2008 and 2010.
A set of global work-life balance principles was agreed and communicated in April as recently into our R&D organisation, the development of an internal pipeline of future global leaders is a high priority.
We work to identify 2011, initiating a range of activities across the business including manager dialogues, better use of virtual meeting technologies, and individuals with the potential for more senior and complex roles.
These talent pools provide succession candidates for a range of critical health and wellbeing initiatives.
Work-life balance category scores improved by two percentage points this year, and we intend to leadership roles across AstraZeneca.
We regard these individuals as key assets to the organisation and we proactively support them to maintain momentum in this area during 2012. reach their potential through, for example, global talent development programmes and targeted development opportunities.
A key element of our people strategy is the continued development of a performance culture across the organisation.
By strengthening We complement our leadership capabilities with a set of manager our focus on setting high quality objectives aligned to our business strategy, and ongoing coaching and feedback, we strive to ensure accountabilities which define what we expect from our managers.
Building line manager capability is supported by a suite of global that performance at all levels of the organisation delivers value.
The Board is responsible for setting our high-level strategic objectives learning programmes which we have extended during 2011, addressing people management, change management and other and monitoring performance against them see the Operation of the Board section on page 104.
Managers across AstraZeneca are critical capabilities.
accountable for working with their teams to develop individual and team performance targets, and for ensuring that our people We remain committed to making full use of the talents and resource of all our people.
We have policies in place to avoid discrimination, understand how they contribute to overall business objectives.
including on the grounds of disability.
Our policies cover recruitment and selection, performance management, career development and We will continue to empower our leaders to drive performance, to hold our managers accountable for understanding and delivering promotion, transfer and training including re-training, if needed, for people who have become disabled and reward.
against the standards required, and to provide the tools necessary to reward outstanding contributions.
Improving the strength and diversity of the talent pipeline Our focus on optimising performance is reinforced by performanceOur global workforce provides a diversity of skills, capabilities and creativity and we value the benefits that such diversity brings to related bonus and incentive plans.
AstraZeneca also encourages employee share ownership by offering the opportunity to participate our business.
We aim to foster a culture of respect and fairness where individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, work in various employee share plans, some of which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 113 and also in Note 24 performance and demonstrated potential.
As we continue to reshape our organisation and geographic footprint, our ongoing challenge is to the Financial Statements from page 176. to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is reflected in our workforce and leadership, and integrated into our business and people strategies.
FOCU S engagement scores We have made progress on our evolving global diversity and inclusion strategy following research carried out in 2010 to better understand the barriers to women progressing into more senior roles in the organisation.
Under the leadership of a global steering group chaired 84% 84% 82% 83% by our CEO and made up of senior leaders from across the business, we are driving change in three key areas: Leadership & Management Capability: Transparency in Talent Management & Career Progression: and Work Life Challenges.
We track gender representation at different levels of the organisation and the country of origin of our 2008 2009 2010 2011 senior leaders to measure progress over the medium term.
Improving employee engagement We use a variety of global leadership communications channels to engage employees in our business strategy.
These include face-toface meetings, video conferencing and Yammer a social media tool to encourage two way dialogue to take place.
For the second year in a row our annual global employee survey FOCUS included an open text feedback mechanism, with around 19,000 comments made on a variety of topics.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy People 41 Delivering our strategy Managing change in our organisation In February 2012, we announced the next phase of restructuring.
The composition of our global workforce continues to evolve.
Further details are set out in the Our strategic priorities to 2014 section Our strategic focus on business growth in Emerging Markets has from page 21. meant the workforce in these areas has grown substantially as shown in the Sales and Marketing workforce composition figures below.
We work to ensure a level of global consistency in managing employee This increase has been accompanied by headcount reductions as relations, while allowing enough flexibility to support the local markets a result of our continuing strategic drive to improve efficiency and in building good relations with their workforces, taking into account effectiveness.
Reductions have come about through restructuring local laws and circumstances.
To that end, relations with trade in R&D, supply and manufacturing, support functions and our sales unions are nationally determined and managed locally in line with the and marketing workforce in Established Markets, together with the applicable legal framework and standards of good practice.
However, disposal of our Astra Tech business.
The net effect of these changes each change programme has its unique challenges and a standard since the end of 2006 has been to reduce our total headcount by solution may not always be appropriate.
This decrease includes a appropriate solution is developed through consultation with employee reduction of 2,600 positions in 2010 and a further 5,000 in 2011 representatives or, where applicable, trade unions, with the aim of which resulted from our business change plans announced in 2010. retaining key skills and mitigating job losses.
In 2011, the most significant business change was the implementation of the R&D strategy announced in 2010, which also involved a number Sales and Marketing workforce composition of site changes.
While the net impact by the end of 2011 was a Emerging Markets Established Markets reduction of approximately 1,400 roles, almost all R&D employees worldwide were impacted in some way by this change.
In order to mitigate further job losses, over 750 employees were redeployed 84% 69% 53% where appropriate skills and capabilities allowed.
We were committed to ensuring that AstraZenecas core values, robust people policies, consultation infrastructure and prior experience were integrated into this multi-faceted business transformation.
Trade unions and 47% employee representative groups were involved throughout the 31% restructuring process.
With significant investment in outplacement 16% support, high levels of success have been achieved in finding 2002 2007 2011 employees alternative opportunities outside AstraZeneca.
In addition, there were reductions in the number of roles in several areas of our sales and marketing organisation in 2011, which were incremental to the ongoing restructuring programme announced in 2010.
The most substantial reduction was in the US, where we announced in December that the sales force would be reduced by approximately 1,150 leadership positions and sales representative roles by the end of February 2012.
42 Delivering our strategy People AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
