Business Review Delivering our strategy Responsible Business We are committed to acting responsibly and to the sustainable development of our business In this section we describe how we are working to deliver business success responsibly, including summary information about our commitment and performance in certain key Our continuing commitment areas.
Further information about these areas and others is available on our website, to enhancing the sustainability astrazeneca.
of our business was Introduction demonstrated by the At AstraZeneca, we are dedicated to the research, development, manufacture and marketing of medicines that make a difference in launch of our Responsible healthcare.
For us, this is at the core of our responsibility to our stakeholders and to society.
Successful pharmaceutical innovation, Business Plan and the delivered responsibly, brings benefits for patients, creates sustainable value for shareholders and contributes to the economic development creation of our Responsible of the communities we serve.
Business Council Previous sections have described our strategic business priorities and how we are enhancing our R&D, expanding our footprint in Emerging Markets, continuing our efforts to source innovation from outside AstraZeneca and increasingly working in partnerships that broaden the base for success in improving healthcare.
At the same time, we continue to drive efficiency and effectiveness across the organisation, including increased outsourcing to a diverse range of strategic suppliers.
All of these efforts are underpinned by our continued commitment to the sustainable development of our business which delivers value for our stakeholders and for us.
To that end, our responsible business objectives must be closely aligned to, and support delivery of, our Dame Nancy Rothwell business strategy.
Our new Responsible Business Plan, published in Non-Executive Director, with responsibility for April 2011, provides our framework for delivering business success overseeing Responsible Business responsibly.
It puts at the top of our agenda those areas most impacted by our strategic priorities and which are therefore key enablers of our business strategy.
This means a specific focus on: Clinical trials and animal research underpinning our drive for innovation with sound ethical R&D practice worldwide Sales and marketing practices driving consistently high ethical standards to promote our medicines responsibly worldwide Access to healthcare exploring ways of increasing access to healthcare for underserved patient populations in a sustainable way Human rights making sure that we continue to develop and drive a consistent approach across all our activities Diversity and inclusion ensuring that diversity, in its broadest sense, is appropriately represented in our leadership, our workforce and our thinking.
See the People section from page 40 for more information Suppliers working only with organisations who embrace ethical standards that are consistent with our own.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 47 Delivering our strategy As well as managing specific responsible business challenges We held a number of multi-stakeholder events throughout the year.
associated with the changes to our strategy, we are maintaining These included an event specifically for key Socially Responsible focus on other aspects of our responsibility: Investor SRI contacts.
The agenda reflected areas of interest expressed by the SRI community and focused on growth in Emerging Patient safety Markets, sustaining innovation in R&D and managing environmental Environmental impact impact.
Feedback following the event was generally positive and Employee safety, health and wellbeing the opportunity to interact with senior AstraZeneca leaders was Community investment.
particularly welcomed by the participants.
Discussion centred on how we are managing the potential challenges to sustainability as A summary of these areas of focus is provided in this section.
we expand our business and drive R&D productivity.
The SRIs also The full Responsible Business Plan is available on our website, highlighted that they wanted more information on our access to astrazeneca.
Accountabilities and responsibilities We also hosted a discussion on global product security during the The Board is responsible for our Responsible Business framework year.
This brought together representatives from diverse organisations, and Non-Executive Director, Dame Nancy Rothwell, oversees geographies and perspectives to gain insights into what our implementation and reporting to the Board.
stakeholders expect from us in the area of product security, and to gain new perspectives on how we can reduce the threat that The SET and senior managers throughout the Group are accountable counterfeiting and illegal trade pose to global health.
Attendees for operating responsibly within their areas taking into account included NGOs, supply chain partners, academics and enforcement national, functional and site issues and priorities.
Line managers are professionals from both the developed and developing world.
The discussion focused mainly on the critical need for collaboration accountable for ensuring that their teams understand the requirements and that people are clear about what is expected of them as they between all the key players in this area, including the role that AstraZeneca can play, working with other manufacturers and work to achieve AstraZenecas business goals.
Individually, everyone has a responsibility to integrate sustainability considerations into their influencing broader stakeholders regarding policy and regulation, enforcement and activities to influence patient understanding and day-to-day decision making, actions and behaviours.
Product security is an inherent part of our commitment to patient safety, which continues to be a fundamental consideration.
Our dedicated Global Corporate Responsibility Team CR Team works together with the SET areas across the business to ensure In addition, we use the insights we gain from external surveys to that responsible business risks and opportunities are identified and managed appropriately, in line with our strategic business objectives.
develop our approach in line with global best practice.
A member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since 2001, AstraZeneca achieved Responsible business governance its highest ever placing in the 2011 World Index.
We also retained our listing on the DJSI STOXX European index the top 20% of the 600 During 2011, we established the Responsible Business Council the Council a cross functional team of senior leaders, chaired by our largest European companies for the fourth year running one of only four pharmaceutical companies to do so out of 14 assessed.
We EVP, HR and Corporate Affairs.
The Council will meet twice a year and their agenda is focused on driving long-term value creation by achieved a total score of 85% 2010: 81% compared with a sector best score of 87% 2010: 87%.
We increased individual scores for agreeing, among other things: 14 out of 23 criteria for 2011 compared to nine out of 23 criteria in 2010 including corporate governance, R&D, environmental policy Responsible Business priorities for the Group in line with strategic business objectives and supplier standards.
While these scores are encouraging, we lost ground in some areas including marketing practices and health Strategy and overseeing performance as measured by shortand long-term objectives, targets and key performance indicators outcomes contribution.
To better understand these lower scores, we have commissioned an in-depth external benchmark survey recorded in the Responsible Business Plan Appropriate policy positions to support AstraZenecas business and the analysis will be used to inform our improvement planning.
The survey is expected to report in the first quarter of 2012. objectives and reputation management.
External assurance The Council is supported by a newly established Responsible Business Working Group the Working Group of SET area Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on the responsible business information contained within this Responsible Business representatives and our CR Team, chaired by the Head of Corporate Affairs Strategy, Brand and CR.
Among other things, the Working section of this Annual Report and of the detailed content of the Responsibility section of our website.
Bureau Veritas has found the Group continuously reviews external issues with the potential to impact AstraZeneca and, as appropriate, prepares management responsible business information provided within this Annual Report to be accurate and reliable based on the evidence provided and subject and measurement proposals for the Councils consideration.
The Working Group will meet four times a year.
to the scope, objectives and limitations defined in the full assurance statement.
The full assurance statement which contains detailed External engagement and benchmarking scope, methodology, overall opinion and recommendations can be found on our website, astrazeneca.
com: web page content assured Stakeholder dialogue was critical in the development of our Responsible Business Plan and we continue to engage with our by Bureau Veritas is marked at the bottom of each page.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises stakeholders to ensure that our strategy development and risk management take account of their feedback.
in quality, health, safety, social and environmental management with a long history of providing independent assurance services.
During 2011, we developed a global framework for multi-stakeholder engagement to provide a consistent, best practice-based approach across AstraZeneca and to improve how we capture feedback from around the world.
48 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
