Business review Promoting tourism along the Gulf Coast cooperative assessment process.
We also prepared and participated in a To support economic restoration in the impacted Gulf Coast communities, variety of scientific publications and seminars as part of our efforts to share BP entered into three-year agreements with the states of Alabama, Florida, learnings from the oil spill as broadly as possible.
Louisiana and Mississippi to promote tourism, monitor seafood safety and promote Gulf seafood.
NRD process under way During 2011, BP made commitments of $92 million in total over In 2011, we continued to work with scientists and trustee agencies three years to support tourism promotion within the four affected states.
through the NRD process to identify natural resources that may have This is in addition to $87 million in tourism grants provided by BP in been exposed to oil or otherwise impacted by the incident, and to look for 2010.
Each state is using its tourism funds to develop specic marketing evidence of injury.
As part of the NRD process, trustees from each state and the The proposed settlement announced on 3 March 2012 with the federal government held a series of public meetings during 2011 in each of Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL 2179 includes a fund to support the five states affected by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
These continued advertising that promotes Gulf Coast tourism.
focused on the status of potential injury assessments and of potential restoration process.
To date, BP has paid over $600 million for NRD Seafood testing, monitoring and promotion assessment efforts.
Federal and state ofcials continue to collect and test seafood from the Public comments were collected as part of the Programmatic Gulf of Mexico, and the results of these tests have indicated that Gulf Environmental Impact Statement PEIS process, which will inform one of of Mexico seafood meets the US Food and Drug Administration FDA the core planning documents for restoration.
A final PEIS is scheduled to safety guidelines.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration be released by the trustees in late 2012.
NOAA and the FDA are conducting widespread scientific evaluation of seafood samples to protect and reassure consumers.
Since May 2010, Emergency restoration projects more than 6,000 seafood samples have been collected by the FDA, NOAA, Emergency restoration projects are dened under the Oil Pollution Act of and state agencies in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida.
The 1990 OPA 90 as preventative measures or actions undertaken to stop FDA has also visited over 100 seafood processors and wholesalers across continuing injuries to resources and to mitigate potential effects of the the Gulf Coast, collecting seafood samples and inspecting processing spill.
During 2011, two emergency restoration projects were completed plants for biological, chemical, and physical hazards.
Levels of residues of along the Gulf Coast in support of birds and turtles.
A third project is in the oil contamination in seafood have consistently tested between 100 and planning phase for submerged aquatic vegetation and is scheduled to be 1,000 times lower than the safety thresholds established by the FDA.
Test results from NOAA, the FDA, and the Gulf of Mexico states are publicly available.
Early restoration projects Recreational shing showed signs of recovery in 2011.
To raise Under an agreement signed with federal and state trustees in April 2011, public awareness of Gulf of Mexico seafood, BP has committed $34 million BP voluntarily committed to provide up to $1 billion to fund projects that for Gulf of Mexico states to conduct seafood testing and $48 million to will accelerate restoration efforts in Gulf Coast areas that were impacted by market Gulf of Mexico seafood.
the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The agreement enables work on restoration projects to begin at Rig Worker Assistance Fund the earliest opportunity, before all of the studies under the NRDA process BP established a $100-million Rig Worker Assistance Fund through the are complete, and before funding is required by OPA 90.
Priority will be Baton Rouge Area Foundation the Foundation to support unemployed rig assigned to projects aimed at improving areas that offer the greatest workers experiencing economic hardship as a result of the moratorium on benets to wildlife, habitat, and recreational use that were impacted as a deepwater drilling imposed by the US federal government.
In 2011, the result of the incident.
Foundation awarded $5.8 million to an expanded pool of applicants, after In December 2011, state and federal trustees unveiled the first set awarding $5.6 million to nearly 350 rig workers in 2010.
With less than of early environmental restoration projects that are proposed for funding 2,000 applying for funds, the Foundation granted $18 million of the BP under the agreement.
The eight proposed projects are located in contribution to community-based organizations through its Future for the Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi.
Collectively, the projects will Gulf Fund.
At the end of 2011, the Foundation was assessing additional restore and enhance wildlife, habitats, the ecosystem services provided funding requests from organizations assisting those impacted by the spill, by those habitats, and provide additional access for shing, boating and and has said it hopes to complete the distribution of the BP contribution by related recreational uses.
More early restoration projects are anticipated in the end of 2012. the future.
Funding for the early restoration projects will come from the Environmental restoration $20-billion Trust.
Additional information about the projects, projected costs We made progress during 2011 on multiple fronts as part of the and proposed credits can be found on the NOAA website.
ongoing efforts to assess and address injury to natural resources in the Gulf of Mexico.
Environmental studies and reports We continued to support and participate in the Natural Resource BP is committed to sharing and providing access to the numerous studies Damages NRD process.
Work has been completed or is under way on and reports generated during the course of the response.
In total, since more than 150 cooperative studies with federal and state agencies to May 2010, more than 150 NRDA studies have been completed or are in gather data on potential impacts and injuries to birds, turtles and mammals: progress throughout the Gulf.
As the studies are completed, summaries sh and shell sh: near shore and shoreline habitats: and the Gulf of are expected to be published as appropriate either on BPs website or on Mexico water column and sediment.
Our website also contains numerous We also worked with the Natural Resource Damage Assessment technical reports and documentation on a variety of environmental and NRDA trustees to begin assessing the potential lost human use of these health-related topics.
Additional studies focused on the potential impacts on historical and archaeological resources and endangered species.
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation projects During the year we also supported two emergency restoration In 2010, BP donated $22 million from the net revenue of the sale of oil projects and made a major commitment to fund early restoration projects.
recovered from the spill to the US National Fish and Wildlife Foundation In addition, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation funded several NFWF which used the funds to quickly implement several conservation projects during 2011 using funds provided by BP in 2010 from the sale of projects along the Gulf Coast.
oil recovered from the spill.
In 2011, the NFWF announced that it issued $6.9 million in We are working with NOAA to prepare and provide access to grants from the Recovered Oil Fund for Wildlife for 22 new projects.
The summaries of the studies completed and data gathered during the 78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
