Business review Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement We are a signatory to two voluntary agreements with implications for or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred specic aspects of human rights: the UN Global Compact, which helps as a separately identiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a larger businesses align their operations and strategies with 10 principles, transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
including some that are related to human rights, and the Voluntary The gures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table Principles on Security and Human Rights, which define good practice for are therefore estimates, based on the denitions and guidelines of the security operations in extractive industry companies.
We have contributed American Petroleum Institute.
to the work of oil and gas industry organization IPIECAs human rights task Environmental operating expenditure of $704 million in 2011 was at force, which works on human rights issues and develops good practice a similar level to 2009 and 2010. guidance for companies in our industry.
Similar levels of operating and capital expenditures are expected in In 2011 the UN Human Rights Council unanimously endorsed the the foreseeable future.
2011 capital expenditure was lower than in 2010 Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
These outline specic due to the completion of various capital projects in our US reneries.
responsibilities for businesses in relation to human rights.
We participated In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also create in discussions on the development of the Guiding Principles, and in 2011 provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such we completed a comparison between our current policies and practices provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included in and the expectations in the Guiding Principles, to help us identify what environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
work will be needed to achieve alignment with the principles.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a cleanBPs code of conduct makes it clear that certain provisions, such up is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
as BPs stance on the rights and dignity of communities, relate directly Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, to human rights.
See page 31 for further information about our code of if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to Revenue transparency and business ethics estimate.
They often depend on the extent of contamination, and As a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, we the associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, work with governments, non-governmental organizations and international technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of agencies to improve transparency in this area.
In several countries that are future programmes could be significant and may be material to the results in the process of becoming EITI compliant, BP is supporting the process: of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not expected for example, BP is an active member of the Trinidad & Tobago EITI steering that such costs will be material to the groups overall results of operations committee.
In countries that have achieved EITI compliance, including or financial position.
Azerbaijan and Norway, BP submits an annual report on payments to their Additions to our environmental remediation provision increased in governments.
2011 largely due to changes in scope reassessments of the remediation We have taken part in consultations in relation to new or proposed plans of a number of our US retail sites.
The charge for environmental revenue transparency reporting requirements in the US and Europe for remediation provisions in 2011 included $12 million in respect of provisions companies in the extractive industries.
BP will fully comply with the for new sites 2010 $54 million and 2009 $6 million.
appropriate mandatory regulations when they come into effect.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland We are working to respond effectively to the standards owing gas-producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual from the UK Bribery Act as well as other anti-corruption legislation such decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the US.
Bribery and corruption are a provision is established that represents the discounted value of the serious risks in the oil and gas industry.
Our code of conduct requires that expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
our employees or others working on behalf of BP do not engage in bribery The level of increase in the decommissioning provision varies with or corruption in any form in both the public and private sectors.
the number of new elds coming onstream in a particular year and the In 2011, we issued a group-wide anti-bribery and corruption outcome of the periodic reviews.
There was a significant increase in 2010, standard, which applies to all BP employees and contractors.
The standard driven by activity in the Gulf of Mexico and this trend has continued in requires annual bribery and corruption risk assessments: due diligence 2011 as a result of changes in estimation and detailed reviews of expected on all parties with whom BP does business: appropriate anti-bribery and future costs: the majority of the increase related to our sites in Trinidad, the corruption clauses in contracts and the training of personnel in anti-bribery Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
On 15 October 2010, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement BOEMRE issued Notice to Lessees Socio-economic development NTL 2010-G05, which requires that idle infrastructure on active We believe each BP project has the potential to benefit local communities leases is decommissioned earlier than previously was required and by creating jobs, generating tax revenues and providing opportunities for establishes guidelines to determine the future utility of idle infrastructure local suppliers.
Our presence in a location also has the potential to bring on active leases.
As a consequence, the timing and methodology indirect economic benets.
of well abandonment have changed, reected in an increase to the We run a range of programmes to build the skills of businesses decommissioning provision.
in places where we work and to develop the local supply chain.
These Additionally, we undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
range from nancing to sharing global standards and practice in areas such These reviews take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in as health and safety.
The programmes can benefit local companies by decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
empowering them to reach the standards needed to supply BP and other Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning clients.
At the same time BP benets from the local sourcing of goods and are usually set up on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Provisions, services.
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
BPs social investments the contributions we make to social and Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions community programmes in locations where we operate aim to support appear in Financial statements Note 36 on page 231. development programmes that we believe will seek to create a meaningful and sustainable impact one that is relevant to local needs, aligned with Respecting human rights BPs business and undertaken in partnership with local organizations.
BP supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which lays out the The programmes we support fall into three broad categories: rights to which all human beings are entitled.
We have also supported recent building business skills and developing enterprise, supporting education multi-stakeholder efforts to establish clear,  guidelines and other community needs and sharing technical expertise with local on the responsibilities of businesses in relation to human rights issues.
In some developing economies we also support community infrastructure programmes that help people improve their access to basic 72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
