Business review: BP in more depth Business review grants, which were supplemented by a further $3.3 million from other BP considers that it is not possible to estimate reliably any obligation in contributors, were awarded for projects designed to: relation to NRD claims under OPA 90 other than the estimated costs of t NQSPWF TFB UVSUMF IBUDIMJOH TVDDFTT BDSPTT NJMFT PG QSJPSJUZ 'MPSJEB the assessment phase and the costs relating to emergency restoration beaches.
and the $1 billion agreement for early restoration, any amounts in relation t ODSFBTF UIF DBQBDJUZ PG NBSJOF NBNNBM BOE TFB UVSUMF USFBUNFOU to fines and penalties except for those relating to the CWA and litigation facilities.
arising from alleged violations of OPA 90.
These items are therefore t 3FTUPSF B DPNCJOFE NJMFT PG PZTUFS SFFGT XIJDI JO UVSO QSPUFDU contingent liabilities.
BP holds a 100% interest in the Macondo well, with the lease t 3FEVDF UIF JODJEFODF PG TFB UVSUMFT CFJOH DBVHIU JO UIF DPVSTF PG interests previously held by MOEX and Anadarko now assigned to BP as recreational and commercial shing.
part of the settlement agreements.
MOEX paid BP $1.1 billion in cash and Anadarko paid BP $4 billion in cash to settle all outstanding claims between Commitment to long-term oil spill research the companies related to the incident and to the prospect.
In 2010, BP committed $500 million over 10 years to fund independent For details regarding the impacts and uncertainties relating to the scientific research through the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative GoMRI.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill refer to Financial statements Note 2 on page 190, The research will improve knowledge of the Gulf ecosystem and help the Note 36 on page 231 and Note 43 on page 249.
See also Risk factors on industry and others to better understand and mitigate the impact of oil page 59 and Proceedings and investigations relating to the Gulf of Mexico spills in the region and elsewhere.
In June 2011, the GoMRI Research Board awarded 17 grants totalling $1.5 million to support scientists as they continue time-sensitive Legal proceedings and investigations data collection.
In August 2011, the Research Board awarded a total of See Legal proceedings on pages 160-164 for a full discussion of legal $112.5 million over three years to eight consortia comprised of over 70 proceedings and investigations relating to the incident.
All eight consortia are led by Gulf Coast institutions.
Research recipients will use the grants to investigate the fate of oil released by the spill, and for the development of new tools and technology for responding to future spills and improving mitigation and restoration.
In December 2011, the GoMRI Research Board also issued a request for proposals RFP for approximately $7.5 million per year for three years, in smaller grants to individual or small teams of researchers.
Rebuilding trust through effective communications During 2011, we worked to engage, inform and communicate with a wide range of stakeholders throughout the region.
We supported community events and we shared information on a variety of issues and concerns with individuals, community organizations, business leaders, elected ofcials, non-governmental organizations and the news media.
Financial update profit before tax for the group includes a pre-tax credit of $3.8 billion and finance costs of $0.1 billion in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The pre-tax credit reects $5.5 billion in relation to settlements reached with MOEX, Weatherford, Anadarko and Cameron, partially offset by further costs associated with the ongoing spill response, adjustments to provisions, and an increase in the amount provided for legal fees, as well as functional expenses of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO.
Provisions were established during 2010 for the environmental expenditure, spill response costs, litigation and claims, and Clean Water Act CWA penalties.
Most of the costs incurred in 2011 were covered by these existing provisions.
Pre-tax charges were recorded in 2011 of $0.4 billion for the functional expenses of the GCRO, $1.1 billion for increases in the amounts provided, primarily related to spill response costs and legal fees, a $0.1 billion finance charge for unwinding of discount on provisions, and $0.1 billion for spill response costs charged directly to the income statement.
These charges partially offset the $5.5 billion credit for settlements reached during the year.
As at 31 December 2011, the cumulative charges for provisions to be paid from the Trust and the associated reimbursement asset recognized amounted to $16.6 billion.
This represented an increase of $4.0 billion in the provisioned amounts during 2011, primarily for the $2.1-billion expected impact of the proposed settlement announced on 3 March 2012 with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL 2179, the $1-billion commitment to NRD early restoration and new provisions for personal injury and death claims and Vessel of Opportunity programme claims.
A further $3.4 billion could be provided in subsequent periods for items covered by the Trust, with no net impact on the income statement.
BP has provided for all potential liabilities that can be estimated reliably at this time, including fines and penalties under the CWA.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 79
