Corporate governance the audit programme proposed each year, the committee looks at is being pursued globally with pace and commitment.
We have received whether it believes key risks facing the company have been appropriately progress reports at each of our meetings and made visits to meet key addressed.
The programme for 2011 was approved by the committee in members of the teams in the exploration and production and S&OR January 2011. organizations that are leading these changes.
This included visiting an The general auditor met privately with the committee once during the year, offshore platform to get closer to the front line, two in-depth discussions without the presence of executive management or the external auditors.
with managers in the Houston ofce and participating in managements This is complemented by regular meetings with the committee chair wells inspection programme.
We have put fresh emphasis on getting a between meetings.
deeper perspective into the organization.
In part we have achieved this The committee reviewed with the general auditor the number and through individual committee members undertaking visits and meeting expertise of his teams staff resources.
The internal audit function provides staff outside the boardroom environment and then reporting back to the a source of skilled staff to many parts of the company and to maintain its committee at the first opportunity.
We believe this approach both deepens resources the general auditor recruits from both inside the company to our collective understanding of risk and of managements controls, and bring in deep business expertise into the team and externally to bring enables us to make more informed, and hence more valuable, challenges.
The committee has sought assurance that We have endeavoured to follow this approach to all of our work undertaken these resources are sufficient to full the functions role, and the general throughout 2011.
As always, for a committee reviewing managements auditor has undertaken benchmarking work with other major companies in assessment and mitigation of non-financial risk, this work has extended the industry.
In addition, an external review on internal audit effectiveness to a wide range of topics.
The report below provides more detail but we has been undertaken in 2012.
This review concluded that BP had an would highlight our reviews of risks and risk management in pipelines, effective internal audit function that compared favourably with other shipping and drilling.
We have also taken a deeper look at risks in our complex and industry equivalents.
petrochemicals business, including a visit by three members of the During 2011 the committee was satisfied that internal audit had committee to the companys paraxylene manufacturing facility in Texas.
the appropriate access it required to information and that management had We have continued to be very well served by L. Duane Wilsons committed to the provision of that information and had responded to the independent perspective of the companys response to the Baker results of audit findings in a timely manner.
Panel recommendations following the re and explosion at the Texas City renery in 2005.
We will shortly be appointing a highly experienced Other activities individual to report independently to SEEAC on the implementation of the The committee monitors fraud and misconduct through quarterly updates Bly Report recommendations.
from the general auditor and any non-compliance with the BP code of Overall this has been a year of significant change which will take conduct through quarterly reports by the group ethics and compliance time to fully embed but we believe we have observed real and enduring officer.
Actions arising are monitored to close out.
report of compliance with the code of conduct, which is signed by the In February 2012 we welcomed to the committee Professor Dame group chief executive, is also reviewed by the committee.
Ann Dowling who brings deep experience in technology and engineering.
The companys employee concerns programme OpenTalk has We concluded during the year it would be appropriate for the been adopted by the committee for whistle-blower monitoring, and all SEEAC chairmanship to transfer to Paul Anderson once the restructuring financial issues that have been agged are reviewed by the committee.
and reorganization within the company was largely established.
This The quarterly reports the committee receives track trends in both the case introduction to the committees report is therefore written by both of type and time taken to close out queries and reports.
We share the same commitment to monitor closely, and provide constructive challenge to, management in its drive for safe and reliable Committee evaluation operations at all times.
We believe that the extensive breadth and depth of Each year the audit committee examines its performance and committee members experience will serve us well in the endeavour which effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain is so central for a company whose business encompasses the production appropriate.
In 2011, the committee used an internally-designed and distribution of hazardous materials.
questionnaire administered by external consultants.
The same question set was used as in 2010 so that any trends could be identied.
Key areas Paul Anderson Sir William Castell covered included the clarity of its role and responsibilities, the balance Chairman from December 2011 Chairman to December 2011 of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting its work to the board.
Specic areas identied for focus in 2012 included trading, Committee members provisioning and the effectiveness of internal audit.
Regarding process, Paul Anderson committee chair from 9 December 2011 members noted that fullling the committees remit had led to lengthy Sir William Castell committee chair to 8 December 2011 meetings, but at the same time they recognized a wish to extend deep Frank Bowman dives into specic topics.
The committee noted that, in areas of common Antony Burgmans interest such as compliance and ethics, it needed to continue to work Cynthia Carroll closely with the SEEAC.
It also commented on the need for pre-read Professor Dame Ann Dowling from 3 February 2012 papers to be well focused to ensure best use of agenda time.
Overall the committee considered it had the right composition in terms of expertise Committee role and structure and had effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the board The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs during the year.
executive management to identify and mitigate significant nonfinancial risk, including monitoring process safety management, and receive assurance that they are appropriate in design and effective in Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee implementation.
SEEAC The committee met nine times in 2011 including a joint meeting Chairmans introduction with the audit committee at which the general auditors report on internal Whilst the Gulf of Mexico committee, as reported elsewhere in this control and risk management systems for the year was reviewed in document, has focused its work on the companys restoration activities preparation for the boards report to shareholders in the annual report.
In in the Gulf area and on oversight of ongoing litigation, the SEEAC spent that joint meeting the committees reviewed the internal auditors audit considerable time over the past year monitoring the groups response to programme for the year ahead to ensure both committees endorsed the the 26 recommendations that were made in BPs investigation report the coverage.
SEEAC also reviewed the planned work of the S&OR audit Bly Report into the tragic incident in April 2010.
Our role has been to seek function and noted an enhanced focus on integrating audit work across the assurance on behalf of the board that each of those 26 recommendations company.
The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through their 128 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance chairs and secretaries, to ensure that the agendas did not overlap or omit environmental and regulatory compliance and audit findings.
Operational coverage of any key risks during the year.
risk and performance forms a large part of the committees agenda.
In addition to the committee membership, each SEEAC meeting In 2011, the committee put particular focus on gaining assurance that was attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president the new S&OR organization was developing as envisaged.
The S&OR for safety and operational risk, the general auditor and the external auditors.
function has intervention rights in all aspects of the groups technical The general counsel also attended most meetings.
The committee held and operational activities, including key investment decisions and the private sessions for the committee members only without the presence committee sought evidence that this was working in practice.
The of executive management at the conclusion of its meetings to discuss committees visits, as mentioned above, provided opportunities to discuss any issues arising and the quality of the meeting.
Between meetings, with local staff the interaction between line managers and embedded committee members took opportunities to visit company sites and S&OR staff, and where change had occurred as a result.
The committee received informal briengs through the committee chair, the secretary, was satisfied with the progress being made but will continue to monitor the external auditors lead partner, the general auditor and executive this in 2012 along with the enhancement of standard practices and management.
Monitoring the companys progress in implementing the 26 SEEAC processes recommendations in the Bly Report is a key task for the committee Information and advice and it received regular updates, including written reports from the The committee receives specic reports from the business segments executive vice president for developments, at five of its 2011 meetings.
but also receives cross-business information from the functions.
These The BP board has identied an independent expert to provide further include but are not limited to the safety and operational risk function, oversight and assurance regarding the implementation of the Bly Report internal audit, group ethics and compliance and group security.
The engagement of the independent expert is expected year, the main external input into the committee has been from L. Duane to commence in the latter half of May 2012.
The independent expert will Wilson, the independent expert for further information, see the section report directly to the board.
He will track BPs progress in implementing on independent expert below.
As for the board and other committees, the 26 recommendations from the companys internal investigation of the SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel if it requires, Deepwater Horizon oil spill and will independently assess the safety, health on an unrestricted basis.
and environmental work of global drilling operations.
He will give regular updates directly to the SEEAC.
Training and visits During the year the committee received specic reports on the The committee extended its coverage and number of visits this year by companys management of risks in shipping, wells and pipelines.
The encouraging members to participate individually, or in groups, and report potential environmental consequences of loss of containment in these back to the next full meeting.
Members have also presented at staff activities gave particular focus to the approaches to risk management training events, such as the operations academy at MIT in Boston.
These included design, such as double bottomed hulls area of focus has been following up on the implementation of the Bly in tankers, and training, such as drilling simulators and naval cadet Reports 26 recommendations and on the progress of the new S&OR training programmes.
The committee noted that all new projects in function.
In March the chairman and secretary visited Houston to discuss environmentally sensitive areas are submitted to the requirements of the how S&OR management was being embedded in the upstream production companys environmental and social review process.
and development divisions and committee members made a further When a fatality in the workforce occurs the committee reviews the visit to Houston in January 2012.
In 2011, a committee member also incident in depth before reporting back to the board.
The committee also participated in an S&OR leadership event in London.
Another committee reviews specic incidents to understand root causes and actions being member accompanied the executive vice president for developments on taken to prevent recurrence.
There has been a particular focus on ensuring two inspection visits to oil and gas wells leadership teams.
In May the lessons learned are communicated widely across the company and not just committee travelled offshore to the Atlantis platform in the deepwater Gulf within the business segment in which the incident occurred.
of Mexico, and also visited the upstream learning centre in Houston to see the capability development activity being undertaken and its global reach.
Independent expert Considerable focus also continues to be placed on the downstream Since L. Duane Wilsons appointment by the board in 2007 as an and on the companys response to the BP US Reneries Independent independent expert to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in Safety Review Panel recommendations.
In March two members of the implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent committee visited the Whiting renery, accompanied by the independent Review Panel, he has presented to the committee at least four times expert, Mr Wilson, to review progress in risk management systems a year in person.
His role has been to assist the company in improving and OMS implementation.
In January 2012 members of the committee process safety performance at BPs five US reneries.
Annually the revisited Texas City renery, again accompanied by Mr Wilson.
This committee approves his work plan for the year ahead and receives a full followed previous committee visits in March 2010, April 2008 and written report which is made public on the companys website.
During this visit, committee members also visited verbal report Mr Wilson advised that he had observed continued progress the nearby petrochemicals facility to follow up on presentations it had in process safety performance at each visit he has made to the five received in May and October and to gain plant level experience, as well reneries.
He also discussed work remaining to be completed and areas as to observe the extent to which the BP US Reneries Independent requiring special emphasis.
As process safety performance has reached Safety Review Panel recommendations had been implemented in the higher levels in recent years, he noted that the rate of change has naturally petrochemicals context.
slowed, but site metrics continued to demonstrate improvements.
In addition to the extensive learning experiences provided by these Mr Wilson also noted that some aspects of implementing the Panels visits and meetings with executive management, induction programmes 10 recommendations require ongoing activity and hence could never be are organized for new members of SEEAC.
Frank Bowman, who joined complete, but he considers the company to have appropriate systems the committee in November 2010, completed his induction programme and processes to continue its work towards process safety leadership.
Mr Wilsons reports are published in full and available on our website at bp.
2011 SEEAC activities Safety, operations and environment Regional and functional reports The committee receives regular reports from the S&OR function, including Each year the committee receives a report on the progress made in HSE quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the groups at TNK-BP, noting however that formal oversight of HSE performance and health, safety and environmental performance and operational integrity.
policies is exercised by TNK-BPs own HSE committee.
It was reported These include quarter-by-quarter measures of personal and process safety, that, whilst significant areas for improvement remained, TNK-BP had BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 129
