Corporate Social Responsibility The Companys executive management is responsible for the Our Customers, Suppliers and Business implementation and monitoring of the Companys corporate Partners social responsibility.
In addition, the Companys corporate social No company can thrive without a satisfied and growing base responsibility is regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors.
of customers, suppliers and business partners.
During the last During fiscal year 11, we have further improved our profile as a year we continued to furnish our business partners and end socially responsible company through the rollout of a number of user customers with quality products and services which allow initiatives.
them to increase their competitiveness in their respective fields.
The Company regularly consults with its customers, suppliers Employees and business partners as to how to improve its business.
During the year, we continued to implement a series of new human resource processes, policies and procedures.
In Community addition, the Company conducted employee and management The Company is dedicated to giving back to the communities in training sessions worldwide to further develop consistent and which it conducts its business.
During the FY 11, the Company professional practices.
The Company also conducted mandatory donated funds primarily to Doctors without Borders, Habitat online compliance training for all employees worldwide.
At for Humanity, and the Red Cross.
The Company continued its June 30, 2011 the Company employed 1,037 professionals Corporate Donation and Employee Matching Program, whereby in 37 countries, making us a leader in our field in terms of the Company matches, up to defined limits, donations made by global coverage and the ability to serve customers both on employees to specifically designated and reputable charitable an enterprise level as well as locally.
We believe that this is organizations.
In light of the disaster in Japan, the Company a key strength of the Company.
The skills and experience of notified employees that the Company would match, up to the people working for us are the most important factors defined limits, all employee donations made to the Red Cross supporting this competitive advantage.
To successfully exploit to assist in disaster relief efforts and the Company specifically all the opportunities we have and cope with rapidly changing donated $10,000 to the Red Cross.
The Company also markets and the challenging economic environment, it is crucial encourages employees to participate in regional food and blood to continuously attract, retain and develop talented employees.
donation programs throughout the year.
Therefore, maintaining good relations with our employees is a Health and Safety high priority at all levels of the organization.
The Company recognizes its health and safety duties under Kofax has been highly successful in attracting high calibre the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and the Management professionals and in developing the Companys talent.
Wade of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 as well as Loo was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company applicable local laws and regulations, and as a result continued in February 2011.
Wade possesses substantial experience to further implement its health and safety policy during the working with public companies in international environments FY 11.
Pursuant to this policy, the Company is committed to in relation to technical accounting, auditing, best practice, and ensuring the health and safety and welfare in the work place corporate governance matters.
His appointment has helped of its employees, consultants, subcontractors and visitors to to further reinforce the independence and financial expertise its facilities.
The Company takes as a high priority the provision of the Board and brings substantial global software company and maintenance of work systems that ensure employees are expertise.
In addition, the Company has continued to hire new safe and without risk to health, and the provision of appropriate sales executives and marketing staff to enhance its sales and information, instruction and supervision as necessary to marketing capabilities in the enterprise software market.
These ensure the health and safety in the work placeof all employees, hires are part of a series of successful initiatives to further consultants, subcontractors and visitors.
enhance the Companys market position and revenue growth.
Environment The Companys communications with its employees are a The Company is committed to assessing and minimising its high priority.
We regularly inform all employees about market impact on the environment and improving its environmental developments, changes in our business, and product and performance, and as a result continued to implement Company strategy updates.
We hold quarterly all employee meetings, wide environmental policy during the FY 11.
The Company formal and informal employee briefings, and management integrates environmental concerns into relevant business and sales conferences to update and obtain feedback from decisions in a cost efficient manner.
In doing so, the Company employees on all aspects of the business.
We make use promotes environmental awareness among its employees.
of Company email, webcasts and intranet sites to provide The Company recognizes the importance of environmental information and news.
This Week at Kofax, a weekly responsibility and believes that its activities have a low impact newsletter, gives all employees a cohesive, up-to-date look at on the environment.
Greater use of email and electronic the latest news from throughout the organization.
documentation rather than paper based correspondence is encouraged and efforts are made to recycle waste such as paper and IT hardware where appropriate.
Given that the Company is a global company with operations in a number of countries worldwide the Company seeks to minimize the need for physical transportation through its investment in video and Corporate Social Responsibility 15 teleconferencing systems.
The Company seeks to encourage open collaboration between its international teams by having regular meetings regardless of location and without a significant impact on the environment.
The Company has also successfully implemented electronic delivery of its software products over the course of the past two years, such that now over 90% of its software products are only provided through electronic means, significantly reducing delivery costs and environmental impact.
The Company further prides itself on being a market leader in providing some of the most innovative document capture technologies that assist other companies in freeing themselves from paper based processes, thus decreasing their carbon footprint.
The Company takes complaints about any breach of its environmental policy seriously, and shall act to promptly correct any such breaches.
The Companys environmental policy is available on the Companys web site.
Equal Opportunity Kofax is committed to providing a work environment that is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment in any form.
It is the Companys policy to comply with all applicable laws that provide equal opportunity in employment for all persons and to prohibit unlawful discrimination in employment.
This policy applies in full force to all Company employees around the world, consistent with local laws and regulations.
Code of Ethics During FY 11, the Company continued to enforce its Code of Ethics to ensure that the Company continues its strong record of responsible business practices and ethical conduct by its employees.
New online training and compliance programs have been implemented, requiring the active participation of all employees worldwide.
The Companys Code of Ethics is available on the Companys web site.
Future Initiatives The Company plans to further strengthen its profile as a corporate citizen during the next fiscal year and to better position itself to serve the needs of its customers and business partners.
The Company also plans to continue to implement more consistent processes, policies and procedures on a global basis.
