30 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement Our approach of health and safety management is sharing best practice and The Group acknowledges its obligation to ensure the responsible lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Groups companies.
operation of its business at all times, and is fully committed An alert system is in place that formally ensures key findings to sound and ethical business conduct in its interaction from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational sites with key stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers, and actions taken as appropriate.
All accidents, incidents and business partners and suppliers, governments and regulators, near misses are investigated, with actions generated to prevent communities and society, and the environment.
A Health, Safety and Environment Technical Group, The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining with representatives from across all our businesses, supports the Groups policies in this area, and the Chief Executive is continual improvement through the development and promotion accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Groups businesses of good health and safety practice.
Compliance audits are conducted at all Group facilities using The Board recognises that the long term success of the Group will external consultancy rms.
All findings are subject to corrective be enhanced by a positive interaction with all our stakeholders, and action reviews to ensure closure, and added to a findings database has determined that the Groups corporate responsibility initiatives which is shared across the Group.
should be focused on the following key areas: The Groups policy is to have all of our businesses certi ed to the Health and safety international health and safety management system OHSAS18001, with all newly acquired businesses certi ed within two years of Employee support and development acquisition.
We are fully compliant with this objective.
Environmental protection Safety is a major item for consideration by the Groups Risk Ethical business conduct Management Committee.
All businesses are required to produce We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be a risk register, from which the top five health and safety risks and fully embedded within our businesses, and our senior management improvement actions to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably bonus plan incorporates speci c objectives in the above areas.
practicable are reviewed on a monthly basis.
Further details of our approach are set out below.
The Group has committed to substantial investments in manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving In the workplace productivity, improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the Health and safety levels of risk.
We apply particular attention to those facilities that Our policy and practices compare unfavourably with their peers, and systems and processes The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required are in place to facilitate the sharing of information across the in order to protect our employees, product end users and the Group.
Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on general public, whilst achieving growth and maintaining leadership ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe as in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board believes that all incidents reasonably practicable for our employees and product users.
and injuries are preventable, and that all employees have the right Our performance to return home safely at the end of every working day.
The long Energetic events causing injury term strategies we have adopted are designed to ensure that we Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to continually improve our performance and reduce risk.
those where employees sustain injury due to an energetic event.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and In September 2010, a re at our Kilgore facility in Toone, Tennessee environmental matters across the Group.
The Group Director of resulted in three employees sustaining serious injury.
Sadly, one of Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible the employees passed away in September 2011.
Since the incident, for the effective administration and implementation of the Groups we have worked hard at Kilgore, and other related sites, to ensure health, safety and environment strategy.
The Group Director of that all lessons learnt are fully implemented.
Safety is a member of the Group Executive Committee and reports on the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and During the year under review, we had one incident involving objectives.
The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board on all an energetic event that resulted in lost time.
At our Chemring key health and safety issues.
Ordnance facility in Perry, Florida, an operator was hurt when a trip are ignited inside her booth, causing a ash which burned the The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their operators hand and ngers.
She returned to work after seven days.
health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action Energetic events not causing injury where necessary.
Each Managing Director is responsible for the We had no energetic events during the year that caused signi cant management of health and safety within their business, and for damage to buildings or equipment.
providing adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
Other lost time events All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives We collect and report lost time incident rates using the US incorporated within their annual bonus plan.
Managers in our Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA rules.
Last businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide year we reported a lost time incident rate of 1.06 incidents per 100 leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive employees.
When the statistics for the businesses acquired in 2010 health and safety culture.
We emphasise the importance of were included, this rate increased to 1.67. individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation, and expect employees to report potential hazards, to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules and procedures.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 After considerable time and attention and excluding the newly Gender diversity acquired Chemring Detection Systems business, the Groups lost time incident rate improved by 20% from 1.67 to 1.32 incidents per 100 employees during the year.
With the inclusion of the Chemring Detection Systems business, the rate reduces to 1.28.
Eight of our Male 66% sites six last year reported no lost work days in the year, which is Female 34% an excellent achievement.
Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below: Lost time incident rate performance Ethnic diversity 2.0 1.5 White 71% Non-white 29% 1.0 0.5 Development and training 0 We continue to address training and development requirements for employees at all levels within the organisation.
All of our businesses 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order A total of fty lost time incidents were recorded in the year, to ensure that they have the right skill base to deliver their five categorised as follows: year strategic plan.
The Board also undertakes a detailed review of the future management requirements and succession plans as 12 part of the annual strategic planning process.
Speci c plans have been developed in relation to sales and marketing, and engineering 10 resources, in order to identify the requirements for future 8 recruitment and development of our existing employees in these areas, and to ensure that we have the right capabilities to meet our 6 future growth targets.
4 Our undergraduate year in industry placement scheme continues to be successful, and we aim to extend this programme each 2 year.
We are developing our graduate recruitment initiatives, and our acquisition of Roke, which has a well-established and highly 0 successful graduate programme, has been of considerable bene t in this area.
Bene ts We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and competitive bene ts package.
Almost all of our businesses offer occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees receive health care.
A number of our businesses offer health Employees screening services and other health-related initiatives such as The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Groups stop-smoking clinics.
employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes working environment that re ects and rewards this.
The Group now has 4,679 2010: 4,283 employees based in eight countries.
in order that they can share in the future success of the Group, and we therefore offer savings-related share plans to our UK and Employment practices US employees.
The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual Communications The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or age.
The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour meetings including team brie ngs and works councils and in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the progress of rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it the Group and the companies in which they work.
We also engage operates and, in practice, often exceeds these.
Our employment practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at with our employees through representative bodies and trade unions.
the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to speci c matters, In 2011, two new female directors were appointed to the Board.
such as health and safety, from time to time.
The Board recognises the importance of promoting diversity across A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly the Group, and is committed to achieving a minimum of at least basis and distributed to all of our employees.
25% female representation on the Board by 2013.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Slip, trip, fall Strain, sprain Repetitive strain Laceration graze Crush Struck against object Skin exposure to substance Energetic Incidents Incidents per 100 employees 32 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review continued All UK facilities participate in the Carbon Reduction Commitment In the environment programme, with the exception of Chemring Energetics UK at Ardeer Our policy and practices in Scotland, which operates under a Climate Change Agreement.
The Board believes that protecting the environment by minimising our environmental impact will help to secure the long term future The Group participated in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project.
Waste The Groups policy is to have all of our businesses certi ed to Our total waste generation, excluding the recently acquired the environmental management system ISO14001, with all newly Chemring Detection Systems, increased during the year as a result acquired businesses certi ed within two years of acquisition.
of the inclusion of the businesses acquired during 2010 and our We are fully compliant with this objective.
ISO14001 requires the ongoing construction and renewal programmes.
setting of environmental goals and objectives focused on local 2011 2010 2009 aspects and impact and in addition, we set expectations and tonnes waste tonnes waste tonnes waste monitor performance across the Group.
Recycled, non-hazardous 1,684 712 Not available Land quality Recycled, hazardous 415 369 Not available The Chemring Energetic Devices formerly Scot facility, which is Not recycled, based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site which non-hazardous 1,018 1,161 Not available has superfund status under the US contaminated land CERCLA regime.
We continue to work with external consultants and the Not recycled, hazardous 388 360 Not available regulatory authorities to ensure that the legal obligations of the Total 3,505 2,602 1,876 business in relation to this matter are fully satis ed.
Our Mecar business in Belgium has been working with its local Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on regulator for some time to remediate historical contamination.
site within closely controlled facilities.
We offer a collection service It is anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those produced by other manufacturers and these are transferred to an The Group carries a 2.7 million provision in respect of these accredited third party for disposal.
pre-acquisition environmental liabilities, which the Board considers to be adequate see Note 26 of the financial statements.
The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation facility in Italy, which will allow the return of time-expired and obsolete Incidents munitions for decommissioning and disassembly.
The individual There were no signi cant environmental incidents in the year.
materials will then be recycled back into the supply chain.
Performance Water Energy and emissions Despite substantial revenue growth during the year, our absolute We have calculated that business travel represents less than 3% water consumption excluding Chemring Detection Systems of our overall carbon footprint, and we therefore focus our efforts continued to decline.
on energy utilisation in our facilities.
We do not include emissions from our supply chain nor use or disposal of products in our carbon 2011 2010 2009 3 3 3 footprint calculation.
m m m Our total emissions during the year in carbon dioxide equivalents, Total water consumption 1,441,000 1,550,000 1,762,000 excluding those of businesses acquired during the year, were as follows: In the community 2011 2010 2009 2008 Helping others Source tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes CO 2 2 2 2 The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has an Electricity 46,459 38,303 36,334 29,128 important role to play in its local community.
Gas 14,676 14,033 12,512 12,384 The Board operates a charitable policy, which con rms its commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus Oil 7,222 3,111 2,008 2,351 on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local Total 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863 communities in which the Groups businesses operate.
Each business has its own locally held charity budget, and at a Group level, The Groups total emissions increased by 20% against a strong charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the increase in revenue, which means that our overall carbon intensity Executive Committee.
Examples of support provided during the reduced as follows: year include: 2011 2010 2009 2008 Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, Total emissions tonnes 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863 SSAFA, The Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, Group revenue million 730 571 504 354 Queen Alexandra Hospital Home for Ex-Service Personnel, Houses for Heroes Appeal, various health and cancer charities, Tonnes of CO 2 local hospitals and schools.
per million of revenue 94 97 101 124 Sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical and Group revenue for 2011 and 2010 excludes revenue attributable to acquisitions Mechanical Engineers REME Field Gun Crew, the Red Devils, the We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation and Combined Services Under 23 Rugby Team and the Royal Artillery thus indirect emissions.
All sites have analysed their top energy Gold Cup Day all part of Team Army.
consuming plant or buildings and created energy reduction Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
programmes for the top five.
Together, these represent more Sponsorship of Portsmouth Festivities.
than 30% of the Groups total energy consumption.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 33 In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages Our US businesses have also adopted an ethical compliance and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local programme to satisfy US government requirements for ethical community, where appropriate.
During the year, our employees training for employees, compliance audits, a con dential reporting donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several line for employees, and related investigation procedures.
of which had an educational bias.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, which enable all employees to raise concerns, in con dence, notably including the sponsorship of various local schools.
The Group about possible improprieties.
These arrangements re ect the has a partnership agreement with Cran eld University, under which requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. the Group has committed to the provision of signi cant funding for students research activities over a five year period.
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on the local community, at locations where our operations may inconvenience neighbours through product proo ng, we liaise with local residents to minimise any impact.
We are also cognisant of the potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
In the marketplace Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services The Groups vision is to become the leading producer of protection systems and energetic products for the global defence market, and we continue to deliver growth in this area through a combination of organic development and acquisitions.
The scope of the Groups activities has broadened signi cantly in recent years, particularly with regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for various types of munitions, and there is increasing demand for the supply to our customers of third party products.
Consequently, the Board has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and services that the Group will supply, to which customers and to which countries, and sets out a clear fide nition of what we will not supply.
All Group businesses are required to comply with this policy, which addresses both legal and ethical considerations with regards to certain products.
Ethics and business conduct The Group has adopted a Global Code of Business Principles, which requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate.
The managing directors of each business are required to report to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Global Code of Business Principles on an annual basis.
Anti-bribery and corruption Following implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, consolidating our previous anti-corruption policies and procedures which were aligned to the European Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption.
Our anti-bribery programme now incorporates the following: Requirements for bribery risk assessments to be carried out as part of normal operating procedures.
Group-wide policies and procedures on the appointment of all sales partners and other third party advisers, stipulating due diligence and contractual requirements, approval levels, and monitoring and review processes.
Regular training for management and employees working within commercial, sales and marketing, finance and human resource functions.
Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
