Independent assurance statement by Deloitte LLP to Big Yellow Group PLC on their Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 the Report continued Our conclusion Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected CSR performance indicators are materially misstated.
Responsibilities of Directors and independent assurance provider Responsibilities of Directors The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011, including the implementation and execution of systems to collect required CSR data.
Deloittes responsibilities Our responsibility is to independently express a conclusion on the performance data for the year ended 31 March 2011.
We performed the engagement in accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which cover all of the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants IFAC Code of Ethics and in some cases are more restrictive.
We confirm to Big Yellow Group PLC that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
This report is made solely to Big Yellow Group PLC in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Big Yellow Group PLC for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 23 May 2011 58 Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Principal Activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries is the provision of self storage and related services.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profit and net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 29 of the financial statements.
Review of Business A detailed account of the Groups progress during the year and its future prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 to 9.
A detailed Business Review and Financial Review have been prepared and are set out on pages 22 to 39, and more specifically as follows: the business objectives and strategy is set out on page 27: the financing objectives are set out on page 28: the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Management section on page 28: and the key quantitative and qualitative performance indicators are included within the Highlights see page 2, Portfolio Summary see page 40 and Financial Review see page 34.
The Chairmans statement, the Business Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, along with any details of exposure to any liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in the Business Review on page 29, and notes 2 and 18 to the financial statements.
Results and Dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is set out on page 73 of the financial statements.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 5 pence per share for the year 2010: 4 per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 4 pence per share was paid in the year 2010: nil.
A property income dividend of 4 pence is payable for the year, of which 2 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 2 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 July 2011, the final dividend will be paid on 20 July 2011 to shareholders on the Register on 10 June 2011.
Share Capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 69,685 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2010: 2,759,296.
