38 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Our people How do we motivate our employees?
Achievement of our strategic priorities is dependent upon our company culture of consistent operational success which allows us to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented employees.
Entrepreneurial, pragmatic, with a high level of involvement from senior andexecutive management and an emphasis on cross discipline teamwork.
How do we maintain this positive culture?
Our team Through a flat management structure: Our team brings together specialist skills used to manage our portfolio on a building by building basis to ensure the regular and effective communication with an open door achievement of our strategic priorities across the life cycle policy in addition to regular meetings held weekly, monthly of our buildings.
and quarterly across the various teams on different aspects of the business: by encouraging our people to be innovative, to think outside the box and have a can do attitude: a disciplined approach providing clear policies and Building Acquisitions procedures and instilling a strong sense of responsibility management for active risk management: Setting Property a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success Business Execution being based upon the contribution and smooth interaction Plans of Property Asset Investment of every member of the team: Business Management Management Plans recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive mindset and valuable experience: Sales Development matching the right people to the right roles and taking action where there are gaps: providing well constructed and fair reward systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align Construction Planning and design employees and shareholders interests: Project management ensuring continual improvement of the skills and competency of our employees at all levels and across all disciplines through appropriate training and development courses: and Investment management fostering a friendly environment engendering a strong camaraderie.
Our Investment management specialists are responsible for: sourcing new assets, sometimes through joint ventures: recycling assets out of the portfolio where business plans are complete and further growth is limited: and working closely with the Asset Managers and Development Managers in respect of the individual asset business plans.
During the year, we recruited an additional Investment Manager to support our Head of Investment Management in executing our business plans.
See People case study on pages 16 and 17 v 39 Annual review Financials Governance Toby Courtauld Chief Executive Our Development Managers primary responsibility is Asset management for the delivery of development projects in accordance Our Asset Managers and Head of Leasing are responsible with an assets business plan which includes managing for the net income return of our assets and the efficient the design, assessing the viability of the schemes, day-to-day operations of our buildings.
Actively engaging timely negotiations with the relevant planning authorities with tenants in respect of their changing needs, they ensure and liaising with the Project Managers on the timely discussions in respect of new lettings, renewals and procurement process.
In conjunction with the Development team they help to ensure that vacant possession can be achieved The Groups Project Managers and Building Surveyors for the proposed timing of our developments, wherever working on both new builds and the Groups rolling possible relocating tenants to other buildings within our refurbishment programmes are responsible for the portfolio.
Our Asset Managers also involve our Head of procurement process, budgetary and documentary control Financial Reporting and Analysis, to review the strength compliance with all relevant legislation.
To help us execute of prospective tenants covenants.
With a growing number our development programme, two Development Managers of assets under management and a 2.2 million sq ft and one Project Manager were recruited during the year.
near-term development pipeline, an additional Asset See our development programme on page 28 v Manager and Leasing Manager were recruited in the To increase the efficiency of our buildings, the Project second half of the year.
Managers and Building Surveyors work closely with Part of the way we consider that we are best able to serve the Asset Managers, the Energy Manager and Health our tenants is through our in-house building management & Safety and Environmental Manager to identify where team with regular inspections of our buildings to ensure improvements can be incorporated in current works or consistently high service levels and, with a dedicated planned into future works.
Each development is also help desk, to enable emergency and minor repairs to be reviewed throughout the project to identify ways to undertaken on a timely basis.
The Building Managers maximise efficiency and promote sustainable resource use.
also liaise closely with both our Health & Safety and See our CR results on pages 46 to 53 k Environmental Manager and Facilities Manager who undertake site visits with the Building Managers on a Our Development Accountant works closely with the rolling basis.
During 2011, an Assistant Facilities Manager Development and Project Managers in the monitoring of was employed to help maintain cleaning and security costs and reporting on the financial performance of the standards and health and safety performance.
Groups development and major refurbishment projects.
Finance and administration Development Refreshing the fabric of our portfolio is an essential part The Finance team incorporates a variety of roles from pure of the life cycle of our assets, and our Development team accounting to the provision of insurance for our tenants manage this process from small scale refurbishments and it supports all aspects of the wider business.
Our Head of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Group Our Health & Safety and Environmental Manager and Financial Controller and Joint Venture Accountant ensure Head of Leasing are involved early in the development timely reporting of the Groups activities, both internally process to ensure health and safety issues are managed and externally.
Our Head of Tax and Treasury is responsible effectively and that tenant requirements are appropriately for the Groups funding and hedging arrangements.
incorporated into the design of our developments and As part of our in-house property management service, our letting campaigns are timed to ensure maximum impact.
Service Charge Accountant generates the annual service charge budget and reconciliations with input from the Asset 40 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Our people 77% of our employees participate inouroptional Share Incentive Plan.
Managers, Building Surveyors and the Health & Safety Retention, remuneration and training and Environmental Manager.
Our Insurance Manager Average period of service ensures that our tenants benefit from the economies years 8 8 of scale achieved from our insurance policy buying 8 power communicating with the Asset Managers and 7 7 7 the Development Managers as appropriate.
7 6 6 Our Accounts Payable team ensure that our suppliers 6 5 5 are paid in accordance with the terms and conditions 5 4 4 4 4 4 agreed between the Company and the supplier.
4 3 Our Credit Controller carefully monitors the Groups cash 3 collection and liaises with the Asset Managers where appropriate in respect of individual tenants.
With an 2 increasing number of tenants and the intention of bringing 1 the management of the GSP in-house during the course of 2011, we have recruited a Sales Ledger Clerk to help 0 2009 2010 2011 support our Credit Controller.
See financing activities in our Financial review on page 34 v Investment management Executive Directors Development Asset management The Tax team is responsible for the Groups tax compliance Finance Cosec Admin and reporting requirements and play a key role in the acquisition and disposal of properties with the Investment A significant proportion of remuneration for all employees Management team.
Our IT team provide support across is performance related, based on a combination of a the Group and are responsible for regularly reviewing corporate target of the Groups Total Property Return the Groups business continuity plan.
outperformance against the relevant IPD central London index, and personal objectives, with the intention of aligning Our Company Secretarial team has responsibility for the interests of our people with those of the Company and ensuring that proper corporate governance processes its shareholders.
In 2010, following approval by shareholders are in place for the Group and its joint ventures together at the Annual General Meeting, 77% of our employees with the co-ordination of the Groups corporate social joined our two for one Share Incentive Plan open to all responsibility activities.
The team also has responsibility staff.
We are pleased that our overall retention rate remains for all of the human resources related functions of the high at 94% per annum with 16% of employees enjoying Group working to ensure that the Groups policies some form of flexible working practices including reduced and procedures and appraisal process are effective.
Number of employees 2011 3 Executive Directors Asset management 28 Investment management 26 Development 78 Finance Cosec Admin employees 6 15 41 Annual review Financials Governance 94% Employee retention rate.
Great Portland Estates culture is grounded in mutual Employee engagement and communication respect and non-discrimination irrespective of age, disability, Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or educational basis to keep everyone up to date and involved in the background.
Performance reviews are undertaken every six Companys plans and activities and act as a forum for the months.
The Company encourages career development Executive Directors to answer questions.
Weekly meetings through the provision of relevant training with funding and are held both across and within departments to ensure study leave to support professional development, including good communication throughout the Group.
Meetings formal training for professional qualifications, external with non-office based personnel are also held weekly degrees and vocational skills.
During the year 28,264 was to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing invested in formal staff training providing 1,288 hours of of best practice.
Key personnel from the Finance, Asset training.
Training programmes provided during the year Management and Development teams are invited to included business related topics, sustainability actions, the provide their views to the Executive Committee at its Bribery Act, key risk areas and personal skills development.
weekly meeting on areas such as credit control, marketing to tenants, investment transactions and opportunities Following feedback from new joiners last year we have and development appraisals and to report on how the formalised our induction process to provide new employees relevant risks are being managed.
From time to time, with a structured bespoke introduction to the Group Senior Managers are also asked to present to the Board through formal meetings with relevant employees across and Audit Committee on a variety of topics.
Employees the teams together with property tours and training in are involved at all levels in the development of the the GPE way to help people understand our culture from Companys operating policies.
the very start, which has been well received by those employees joining during the year.
As part of the 2010 half year appraisal process, employees were asked to complete a communication survey to identify Total number of training hours areas where we could improve communication across the hours Group.
As a result of the survey, a number of initiatives have 600 either taken place or have been planned for the course of 2011 including: 500 the review of authorisation levels to ensure processes 400 are streamlined where possible: the updating of individuals roles and responsibilities: 300 the refocus of a number of team meetings: 200 the setting up an IT User group to help prioritise IT projects, to update the Company website and to develop 100 a group intranet: the involvement of more employees in the presentations 0 Corporate Environmental Estate Finance Health IT at the Quarterly Reviews: and Responsibility, Management and Safety Governance to increase the number of tours of recent acquisitions and HR and presentations on developments to ensure all 2009 2010 2011 employees have a good understanding of the attributes and plans for the buildings.
138 66 110 198 148 313 354 599 466 223 191 187 307 256 150 65 42 62 42 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Our people Employee remuneration, development and communication through the year Month April Formal feedback to employees of salary reviews and discretionary bonuses Feedback from performance review from Line Managers to Executive Committee and proposed actions and review of employee training needs.
May Achievement of the Groups sustainability objectives and targets for the previous year is communicated to all employees.
Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees on the Groups results by the Executive Directors followed by a question and answer session.
September Six monthly performance review of progress against personal objectives and targets held between Line Managers and employees and review of training undertaken and development needs.
Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
October Feedback from performance review process from Line Managers to Executive Committee and review of action plan and review of training undertaken by Executive Committee.
November Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
January February Market review and benchmarking of employee salaries.
February Following input from employees the CR Working Group finalise the Groups corporate sustainability objectives and targets for the forthcoming year and communicate to all employees.
Employees are informed of the year end performance review process and the focus of objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
March Pre-performance review meeting held between Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Line Managers.
Employees are informed of the year-end performance review process and the focus of objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Year-end performance review held between Line Managers and employees and review of development needs and proposed training.
Employees and Line Managers discuss and set personal objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Executive Committee review salary levels vs. market review, performance against personal objectives and targets, proposed bonuses and proposed LTIP awards.
Training provided to members of the investment management, asset management and development teams on: improvements made to policies and procedures: changes in documentation required to evidence decisions as a result of the Bribery Act: and sustainability matters that should be addressed on refurbishments and developments.
Sustainability update seminar for the investment management, property management and development teams to highlight changes in the Groups sustainability objectives and highlight improvements made in the Groups management of energy, waste and water.
Remuneration Committee review of remuneration levels proposed for all employees and Senior Manager salary levels, bonuses and LTIP awards.
