Directors report | Business & financial review | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Overview and strategy We concentrate on the business opportunities offered by CR within our investment portfolio and development projects, fully integrating CR initiatives into our corporate business plans.
Against a weak economic backdrop and increasing utility costs, our customers continue to benefit from our drive to reduce consumption and increase recycling.
At our developments, we have an innovative design approach which ensures we create properties fit for the future.
We believe that changing legislation and rising energy prices will make our low-carbon investment portfolio more attractive to tenants and investors.
We have seen an increase in French legislation directing the industry towards a greener future.
Hammerson has anticipated the requirements of the Grenelle denvironment and engaged with government, peers and suppliers in advance of its implementation, to ensure we create value for the business.
We have a standard way of engaging with our communities across Employees the portfolio, which we adapt and implement locally.
We actively We continue to develop programmes to educate staff about the support the communities in which we operate through volunteering, benefits of sustainability.
Over 500 employees and contractors bursary projects and other forms of engagement.
Local authorities in undertook our accredited environmental course.
We are keen to link the UK and France increasingly focus on our track record in creating sustainability with individual performance, and have increased the jobs and providing skill development opportunities for local people.
number of employees with  objectives.
We delivered a series of seminars in 2011 to share knowledge and to We approved new volunteering and charity donations policies, engaging create new partnerships.
staff in the identification and selection of charitable partnerships.
The revised approach will ensure that we leverage cash donations through additional support by volunteering, in kind contributions and fundraising.
New approach to reporting This aligns with our objective to ensure that community investment is This year we restructured our CR reporting.
First we responded to the focused on long-term engagement with communities.
requirement for real-time information by taking control of our own data in a new CR data management and reporting system.
This will enable us to collate all Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme Community CRC EES data and evidence packs online, reducing administration, European governments are increasingly focused on community increasing both accuracy and timeliness, and removing risk.
At a national and local level we work with key recognising the needs of different stakeholders, we have moved away stakeholders to align our community investment strategy with local from a single annual CR report.
Instead, in addition to the key documents priorities and needs.
This was evident in our response to the civil unrest such as the connected reported framework and GRI compliance report, that occurred in the UK during the summer of 2011.
We implemented a we will produce short, focused communiqus for each of our five key coordinated response to manage both the immediate and long-term stakeholder groups.
impacts in the areas where we operate.
We provided finance, skills and expertise to support local businesses and communities.
Now that the Localism Act has been passed in the UK, we have implemented a Investors number of measures around community consultation to further Investors are an excellent source of feedback.
In 2011 we expanded support our partners.
In France our community investment strategy is our Environmental Social Governance ESG engagement programme concentrated on three national initiatives: France Initiative: Centre Ville to include France, meeting with eight key investors.
It was clear that Movement: and Pole Emploi.
investors are now factoring sustainability into their decisions.
Hammerson again entered the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarking study, with 349 global participants, and was ranked first Customers among European listed property companies.
Our good performance in 95% of our main retail customers regard CR as crucial to their future.
the relevant indices continued, and we improved our score in both DJSI Their major focus for the last few years has been on the supply chain, and FTSE 4 Good.
Following requests for improved transparency but increased attention is now being placed on operational costs, in relating to Health and Safety, we have now provided a separate particular, energy.
We continue to expand our green groups in both the statement for this area.
UK and France, we have stepped up our engagement with customers and linked this to retailer awards at Union Square and WestQuay.
We engaged in several partnerships with customers on subjects ranging from procurement strategies to reuse of steel.
One of our occupiers engaged us on their own sustainability stakeholder review panel.
We introduced 26 retailers to Retail Lab, our innovative collaboration with DeMontfort University.
In France we began to capture tenant energy consumption via green leases and encourage retailers to turn lights off in the evening.
These initiatives are welcomed as they raise awareness, reduce cost to tenants and provide a good source of data for benchmarking.
26 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Corporate responsibility Our Community Day which took place on 10 June 2011 Suppliers The future Without a sustainable supply chain we cannot deliver sustainable The importance placed on carbon reduction by governments in the UK products.
We are integrating our supplier questionnaire into our and France is evident through legislation and tax.
We know that landfill CR data management tool.
The new system will streamline the process tax in both countries will increase operating costs for our tenants, so and improve data capture.
Following a review of leaders in the field, well-managed centres with lower service charges will become more especially retailers and contractors, we recognised the need for a important.
Our commitment to reduce emissions and increase recycling suppliers code of conduct which will be launched in 2012.
The pilot will align with customer needs.
We see water usage as the next area of will take place in March this year with our first annual survey taking government attention, so have committed to reducing consumption to place in April.
improve our performance and reduce risk.
We will continue to engage with shareholders, who are focused increasingly on sustainability risks and opportunities.
Civil unrest raised awareness of the need to maintain Performance engagement with our communities and understand the challenges they We reduced our carbon emissions across the portfolio by 11.5%, face, and in response we ensure that we play our part in improving the with several shopping centres producing outstanding results, notably local environment, and improving skills to create jobs.
In France the warmer winter period had a dramatic impact on our carbon emissions as gas-fired heating systems were switched off, helping our French portfolio to deliver a 20% reduction.
We centralised our waste management contract, so reducing cost through the inclusion of strict recycling targets.
The overall recycling rate in the UK hit 58%.
The full effect of this change will not be seen until the end of 2012, but it is already generating good results at some centres.
In France we continue to improve our waste recycling rates, with a notable performance by Place des Halles as the management team identified a new supplier for its organic waste.
We are now engaging with 389 community organisations, investing 1.2 million, an increase of 24%.
