CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY COBHAMS GOAL IS TO LINK KEY STAKEHOLDER ISSUES WITH SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH ITS CORPORATE STRATEGY AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Cobhams corporate responsibility policies will be made available on the tracking system and careers website.
and sustainability approach adds HIGHLIGHTS corporate responsibility section of the Cobhams Performance and Development shareholder value Cobham website.
Review process develops its in-house Benchmarking shows To be successful and sustainable in its talent.
The momentum behind Cobhams Cobham is a competitive chosen markets Cobham must attract As part of an industry initiative, Cobham development programmes has been employer and connecting and retain the most talented people, is also participating in the development maintained, with over 70% of participants well with potential improve operating efficiency, manage of standardised supply chain metrics and in the Senior Development Programme recruits risk and protect reputation through will be well placed to cooperate as they assuming bigger roles.
In 2011, 13 high Energy electricity, natural striving for a strong environmental, are cascaded through the supply chain.
performing graduates completed the gas and heating oil and social and governance culture.
Graduate Development Programme resource use improved A focus on learning and andmoved into their first permanent Developing good quality Number and severity development to deliver the positions.
Theaward winning relationships with key stakeholders ofhealth and safety workforce of the future apprenticeship programme now covers Cobhams goal is to link its key accidents reduced Delivering Cobhams strategy allthe largest UK engineering locations.
stakeholder issues with shareholder requiresafocus on talent, an Updated anti-bribery value through its strategy and areainwhich Cobham has already Creating a better place to work andcorruption policy operational performance.
Developing a strong safety, health and implemented to address this approach Cobham has joined environment mindset supports the goals requirements of UK Business in the Community and Identifying Cobhams current talent pool of developing an ethical business culture Bribery Act participated in the Corporate and developing a clear understanding and attracting and retaining talent, Responsibility Index to benchmark ofits future requirement is an essential improving operating efficiency and the itsprogress.
As part of this process part of the Strategic Workforce Planning community licence to operate.
Cobham Cobham is developing the management cycle, with review of some functional has set itself a goal to pursue zero harm of its corporate responsibility and areas completed.
zero work-related fatalities, injuries sustainability activities into a structured andillnesses and to minimise its continuous improvement system To fill the gap between future impact on the environment wherever thatwill facilitate management in the requirement and current capability, possible.
This is a challenging goal but is implementation of key programmes Cobham is developing in-house achievable through embedding the right andinitiatives.
benchmarked review has shown Cobham Cobham has implemented a The Group also intends to continue to is competitive and connecting well with standardised approach including a participate in key investor surveys from potential recruits.
Cobham has developed three-tiered management performance EIRiS, Carbon Disclosure Project and its Innovators with Insight employer framework to drive continuous Bloomberg.
To supplement this, brand and over 11,000 applications have improvement.
Allbusiness units were performance data and publicly disclosed been managed via the new applicant seta target toachieve the foundation IDENTIFYING COBHAMS CURRENT TALENT POOL AND DEVELOPING A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING OF ITS FUTURE REQUIREMENTS IS AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THE STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLANNING CYCLE Business overview 30 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Above below level of ourperformance framework: activities, products and services.
Cobham Aviation Services based at Bournemouth 76% achieved the first level and 14% Particular areas of focus will include  the UK, installed sunpipes into achievedhigher levels.
Leading safety employee wellbeing, energy efficiency  improve the working  and reduce energy and environmental indicators, a and resource efficiency.
Thecarbon footprint reduction is estimated management scorecard anda set of at16tonnesof carbon over five years for a system that best practice technical standards were Pursuing the highest  and has a guarantee of 10 years.
also rolled out to helpreach the zero ethicalstandards harm goal.
Cobhamrecorded zero Cobhams goal is to maintain a strong fatalities and reduced thenumber business ethics culture that will andseverity of losttimeaccidents.
minimise liability, manage risk and protect reputation in an increasingly Consumption of electricity, natural regulated and complex global gasand heating oil as well as the marketplace.
generation of waste materials were reduced at Cobhams facilities.
However, Cobham recognises the importance an increase in operational flying hours ofsetting the tone from the top.
forcustomers combined with an increase Theexecutive-level Business Ethics inbusiness travel due to changes in &Compliance Committee oversees customer geographies andimproved the ethics and compliance reporting practices contributed to higher programme.
It sets out the policies greenhouse gasemissions.
and management standards and oversees ethics investigations and Going forward, the focus will be on compliance concerns.
The Group embedding the standards, performance Executive discusses monthly reports, management systems and processes which include updates on ethics and todrive continuous improvement in compliance cases raised and training, thesafety, health and environmental with updates at each Board meeting.
aspects of Cobhams operations, Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED representation of energy use and greenhouse gas emissions.
Data for Cobham Analytic Solutions was reported up to 1 November 2011 and pro-rated to the transaction completion date whilst data for Cobham MAL Ltd was based on 2010 data normalised by turnover and pro-rated for the duration of 2011 ownership.
100% of Cobhams wholly-owned operations by turnover have been reviewed internally to identify omissions and significant variations i. e. 5% from the preceding year.
Cobham has commissioned an external assurance provider, ERM, to provide limited assurance of its 2011 carbon data i. e. Scope 1 and 2 as presented inthe table opposite.
The assurance statement will be made available on thecorporate responsibility section The ethics and compliance programme Detect and respond Cobham ensures Canteen kids fly high ofCobhams website.
Cobham Aviation Services in is based around the key principles the early detection and response of Adelaide, Australia provided ofprevent, detect and respond: ethics and compliance issues and these aBAe 146 to fly 65 youngsters, on13 August 2011, to the are dealt with swiftly and effectively.
heartof Australia, to Uluru Prevent This includes a range of Employees are actively encouraged previously Ayers Rock, where measures to help prevent ethics and touse a free and confidential ethics they were able to get together with other Canteen kids from compliance issues from occurring.
helpline, which is available 24 hours a Darwin and Alice Springs at day, with a formal investigation process theUluru Voyages resort for Training Employees are provided with into ethical and compliance concerns.
sessions on business and compliance Canteen is an organisation for issues, including ethical awareness, Data verification young people living with cancer and the event was designed to contracting with the United States Cobham collects data annually on allow the children to develop government, international trade allkey corporate responsibility and peer support networks that compliance and with the introduction sustainability KPIs from its whollywillhelp them through their cancer journey.
ofthe UK Bribery Act 2010, anti-bribery owned operational subsidiaries.
Business Unit Ethics excludes Cobhams joint ventures Image courtesy of andCompliance Officers ensure timely whichare not under operational control, TheAdvertiser, Adelaide.
Photographer, Tait Schmaal completion of employee training: sites with less than 5 people, sites leased 99%of employees completed required to tenants, vacant properties being Ethical Awareness training and 97% disposed of, and any business units ofemployees completed anti-bribery thathave been closed or divested and corruption training.
during the course of the year for which there is less than six months of reported Company policies and procedures have data.
During 2011 divestments included been updated for emerging issues, such Cobham Analytic Solutions in the as the UK Bribery Act.
Cobham has USand Cobham MAL Ltd in the UK.
revised its Anti-Bribery and Corruption However, as these business units were Policy, including robust processes to divested within Q4 they have been manage third parties.
included to provide a more complete Business overview 32 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategic objectives 234 1 5 Focus on defence, Sell technically Build sustainable Deliver operational Actively manage security and differentiated products scalepositions excellence the portfolio commercial markets and services Key focus areas and performance Objectives 2011 2010 Target Objectives Strategic indicators KPIs for 2011 actual actual for 2012 objectives Stakeholder engagement 24 Improve stakeholder engagement Develop repeatable Defined Completed Group level Undertake participation processes stakeholder CR&S overview survey in Dow Jones engagement engagement of stakeholder Sustainability Index process with investor requirements community Staff and talent 234 Number of senior appointments Increase the 30% 30% 30% 30% sourced internally % number of senior appointments sourced internally Voluntary turnover % 10% 8.4% 8.0% 10% 10% Safety, health and environment 234 Fatalities Maintain zero 0 0 0 Zero fatalities fatalities Major Accident Incidence Rate Reduction on 465 565 0 Implementation Numberof accidents resulting previous year ofleading KPIs in more than 3 days absence per 100,000 employees Recordable Incidence Rate Number Reduction on 1.60 1.69 0 Per Major Accident ofaccidents resulting in more than previous year Incidence Rate above firstaid per 100 employees 1 5 Scope 1 GHG tCO e Reduction on 123,647 90,097 100,000 Undertake limited 2 previous year assurance on data 2 6 Scope 2 GHG tCO e Per Scope 1 61,879 62,868 60,000 Per Scope 1 2 GHG above GHG above 3 7 Scope 3 GHG tCO e Increase scope and 334,321 304,630 Increase Per Scope 1 2 improve reporting scope and GHG above improve reporting 8 Energy efficiency Reduction on 998 850 900 Reduction on 4 MWh m turnover previous year previousyear Business ethics and compliance 14 Appointment of Ethics Officers Coverage across Completed Substantially Maintain Coverage across in business units all units completed for all coverage all units units across all units Ethical awareness training All employees 99% 90% 100% 100% employees for all employees employees 1 Scope 1 GHG KPI comprises natural gas, heating oil and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham for use in Cobham owned aircraft or other Cobham owned equipment, company petrol, diesel and hybrid caruse.
Non-automotive diesel has been excluded but based on data not externally assured in 2011, it contributes less than 0.05% of Cobhams Scope 1 data.
2 Scope 2 GHG KPI comprises purchased electricity from both renewable and non-renewable energy tariffs.
3 Scope 3 GHG KPI comprises business travel non-company owned car use, train travel and flights and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham for use in leased aircraft or other leased equipment orprovidedby customers for use on customer operations.
4 Energy Efficiency KPI includes electricity, natural gas, heating oil and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham or provided by customers.
5 Scope 1 was 92,394 tCO e error identified in 2011 external assurance process.
2 6 Scope 2 was 61,171 tCO e error identified in 2011 external assurance process.
2 7 Scope 3 was 309,908 tCO e error identified in 2011 external assurance process.
2 8 Energy efficiency KPI was 907 MWH m turnover error identified in 2011 external assurance process.
Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
