Corporate Responsibility a profound role in our success.
It is certainly vital to our future.
We want to 2010 11 highlights be the sort of company that people prefer to work for and with.
We want everyone from local communities to local authorities Our people Our environment to see we can make a positive contribution in their area.
And we want shareholders to feel that our commercially sound approach to CR makes us a more sustainable investment, in every sense.
Our stakeholders Percentage of waste from our Percentage of employees who Given the importance of mutual advantage, it is important we have a London managed office portfolio are satisfied working for Land clear sense of who is affected by our actions and an effective programme that is reused or recycled Securities of communication with each group.
Here are just some of the ways we communicate with people inside and outside the Company: Our marketplace Our communities Communities, consumers and the public Prior to development we listen carefully to the views of people affected by a scheme or other major work we might carry out on an asset.
During construction we have regular dialogue with those Percentage of our retail tenants The total value placed on our affected and, once built, we recognise the importance of the buildings who are willing to recommend us investment in community to the community they sit in.
Our shopping centres receive nearly as a landlord activities 300 million shopper visits a year and our people are on hand to provide help and receive feedback each day at customer services desks.
And our websites provide simple and direct ways for people Responsibility is not one of our to send us feedback.
Customers retailers and ofce occupiers priorities, it is part of every priority.
All of our customers have a dedicated contact within the Company.
We also conduct customer satisfaction surveys, and we hold occupier review meetings in our shopping centres four times a year.
Why CR matters Employees We conduct our Employee Engagement survey every year.
We run We believe that you cannot separate success from responsibility.
quarterly Exchange Forum meetings where elected representatives Financial success can only be sustained when your teams are aware of, from around the business discuss key issues and decisions with a and take into account, the impact they have on the environment and the representative from the Senior Management Board.
And we hold communities they serve.
By ensuring that we act in tandem with the quarterly lunch events where employees can ask questions of at least aims and ambitions of our stakeholders, we add value to our business two members of the Senior Management Board.
and create value for shareholders.
It really is that simple and is the Local authorities foundation for our approach to Corporate Responsibility.
Through partnerships with leaders, economic development teams Taking a responsible approach to business is the right way for and planning departments, we work to identify local priorities and an industry leader to behave.
We are also convinced it makes us a better define ways in which we can help support the development of business.
This is why we consider CR fundamental to everything we do, thriving communities.
not simply something thats nice to do.
Responsibility helps shape our Central Government, regulators, trade bodies and NGOs strategic decisions, and it guides our everyday choices.
Equally, every We are active participants in consultations with central Government investment we make in CR must help us to be a more successful business, agencies on key commercial property issues.
We participate in otherwise we wont do it.
industry-wide bodies such as the British Property Federation, The desire to integrate responsible principles in business as British Council for Ofces, British Council of Shopping Centres, usual practice is the reason why we do not have a standalone CR Better Buildings Partnership, London First and the UK Green strategy.
We believe that if CR is truly integral to our business it should Building Council.
form part of our business strategy, not exist separately.
Responsibility Investors is not one of our priorities, it is part of every priority.
Board Directors including our Chairman meet with a number It is through acting responsibly that a company earns a reputation of investors throughout the year.
We also conduct a formal investor for integrity, and from integrity springs trust.
It is impossible to fully survey every two years.
register the value of trust on a balance sheet, but we know that it plays Suppliers and service partners We want to be the partner of choice in our sector, so we act with fairness and integrity at all times.
Ou Our r sta stak ke eh hol olde der rs s Our CR Committee Our people Our investors The CR Committee is responsible for dening our strategic priorities Our customers Our communities in CR, monitoring our CR performance and ensuring that our CR Our suppliers and Government and NGOs activities remain directly related to our business objectives.
The Committee reports to the Chief Executive and is chaired by Martin service partners Our consumers Wood, Group Tax & Treasury Director.
It met four times between 62 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate Responsibility March 2010 and March 2011.
To help keep CR current and relevant No other property developer to the business, it will meet on six occasions over the next 12 months.
No other Our objectives Our CR activities are focused on four key areas: developer has pioneered so many environmental initiatives.
Our environment Our people We want to lead the way on Our marketplace sustainability and be regarded Our communities as principal consultant to local Of these four, we believe we have the biggest impact in the areas of and national Government.
In 2010 we set ourselves a 10 year objective in each of the four Robert Noel, Managing Director, London Portfolio areas.
Many of our stakeholders have applauded the clarity of these objectives, but people have also asked us to be equally clear on how we intend to achieve them.
We have listened to that feedback and are encouraging behaviour change but also by retro tting ef cient currently working to tie together more closely our 10 year objectives technologies to reduce energy consumption.
Addressing climate change is very much a long-term challenge, In the meantime, we can report strong progress across all of our and one that requires us to work effectively with others.
The following section provides a summary of our approach alongside the physical changes we can make to bricks and mortar, we and ongoing commitments in each area.
are exploring ways to help occupiers and visitors to our properties reduce their environmental impacts.
Across all of our environmental commitments, our approach is based on continual improvement.
We Our environment look to set and meet the highest standards consistently, year after year.
10 year objective Our priority areas and ongoing commitments include: To reduce our carbon emissions Climate change and the built environment by 30% by 2020 We assess the carbon footprint of all of our developments and major refurbishments.
We have an in-house environmentalist on the design team for all major projects.
We use our Sustainable Development Brief on every scheme.
We schedule environmental auditing on all projects, from demolition through to Practical Completion.
We have voluntary Display Energy Certicates in every building.
We have a site-specic environmental management plan for every shopping centre.
Zero waste We set environmental KPIs for management.
500,000 78% Conserving natural resources The number of printed pages Percentage of our shopping We apply our environmental management system EMS we saved by encouraging centre portfolio waste that to all projects.
shareholders to read our Annual is diverted from land ll We achieve the FSC project-specic Chain of Custody Certi cation Report online Standard in all of our developments.
Six We use at least 20% recycled content for all new developments.
Number of our shopping centres We use eco-friendly cleaning across our managed portfolios.
that send absolutely no waste to landll Customer behaviour We send zero waste to landll from our managed of ces.
As the UKs largest commercial property company, our most signi cant We send 10% or less of our demolition and construction waste impact is the effect our buildings have on the environment and, by to landll.
We believe we can make a positive difference We use sub-meters to monitor our tenants electricity use and will if we act in the right way.
That means achieving excellent environmental soon enable them to view their energy use via the internet.
performance in our developments, largely through the use of technology, smart design and sustainable construction: and by improving the performance of existing buildings, primarily by Land Securities Annual Report 2011 63 Corporate Responsibility Performance and development Our people We measure performance against established Key Performance Indicators KPIs and provide regular feedback.
ear objective We ensure that the majority of our employees have an appropriate learning and development plan.
recognised in the UK employer of choice for Health and wellbeing loping people to be the We maintain a hazard-free working environment.
they can be We monitor for specic ergonomic requirements and provide appropriate equipment.
We support a zero tolerance approach to bullying.
We provide an on-site doctor and nurse, a referral process for long-term absence and stress-related absence measures.
We ensure people can report inappropriate behaviour through our whistleblowing system.
We achieve low grievance rates.
% Percentage of our employees Percentage of our employees Fairness and equality who are happy with their who volunteered at least one We live by our values, with integrity a key characteristic.
learning and development plan, day in the year We continue to embed equal opportunities in our selection process.
based on our 2010 employee We pay fair and competitive salaries, and provide reasonable and engagement survey competitive family and wellbeing policies.
Our marketplace ear objective the standards for Our ambition is to be the employer of choice in the property industry.
vation, value and We know that the more we invest in our employees the better the results e that others aspire to will be for all of our stakeholders.
We employ around 700 people, which makes us a relatively small organisation in FTSE 100 terms.
We believe in being a fair and equal employer and we are committed to ensuring the wellbeing of our team.
We always try to communicate well and recognise good work.
Being small means we often nd ourselves recruiting external candidates for important roles.
We want to change that by improving our performance and development programme to help nurture more talent from within.
18 The number of jobs supported The overall satisfaction Our priority areas and ongoing commitments include: by the construction of our ratings out of five given to current developments us by our respective Retail Communication and recognition and London occupiers in our We employ a wide range of internal communication channels, annual customer surveys such as our Exchange Forum: our employee survey: and Team Talk, a quarterly communication through which senior managers share business critical information with employees.
We enable employees to ask questions of management through our Ask Francis sessions with Chief Executive Francis Salway and lunch events with the Senior Management Board.
We continue to recognise and celebrate the exceptional achievements of our people, and our service partners people, through our annual By acting with fairness and integrity, we seek to be a partner that People into Action awards.
suppliers and contractors prefer to work with.
In turn, we require We reward outstanding performance through the Chief Executives our supply chain partners to ensure their employees operate in a safe discretionary bonus fund.
environment and have access to appropriate opportunities and support.
With around 14,000 jobs supported by the construction of our current developments and around 32,000 people in retail related jobs across our shopping centre portfolio, this commitment to high standards throughout the supply chain is very important.
64 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate Responsibility We dont just write a cheque and walk away.
We invest to help jective create a future in which we can ed by local as the number all thrive and grow.
or the delivery Francis Salway, CEO social and pacts Customer service is one of our strengths and we work closely with occupiers to help them get the most from their buildings.
We also want the millions of people who visit our shopping centres each yea and the thousands who work in one of our ofces to gain the most from their surroundings.
10,194 20% Good relations with shareholders are equally important.
The total number of hours our unfit we will top up We strive to report on our performance in a meaningful and transparent employees spent volunteering employees Give As You Earn way, and always aim to meet the highest governance standards.
during the year GAYE contributions Our priority areas and ongoing commitments include: Supply chain We audit our properties to ensure our legal and contractual obligations are being met.
We ensure employees with client duties have appropriate health and safety and risk management training.
Customers We have a long tradition of working closely with local communities We conduct customer surveys with our retail and of ce occupiers.
during the development stages of our sites.
Once complete, our shopping centres, ofces and residential schemes are often at the heart of their Investors communities.
We continue to encourage investors to choose digital options Wherever we have major property holdings, we invest in for investor communications.
employment, education and enterprise opportunities to help create We make CR information packs available to all Socially thriving and sustainable communities.
Where they are already Responsible Investors.
established, we play a significant part in local Business Improvement Districts BIDs : where they do not exist and are needed we are often instrumental in their creation.
Our approach also involves us in collaborating with partners to deliver training and employment opportunities and providing financial support to local community groups through grant giving and charity.
We engage with schools, colleges and universities to provide education programmes that help to prepare young people for the world of work.
Our priority areas and ongoing commitments include: Employment and training We hold job fairs at our shopping centres.
We work with job centres to promote employment and training opportunities through local employment charters.
We support National Skills Academies in the retail sector and work with construction partners to get young people into employment or training on our development sites.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 65 Corporate Responsibility Education We offer work experience to students on property-related degree and postgraduate courses.
We enable MSc students studying building, construction and design at University College London UCL to undertake research for Land Securities as part of an on-going partnership.
We offer four bursaries a year to students at the UCL Bartlett School of Planning.
We engage with schools wherever possible.
Supporting local communities and charities We enable employees to use two working days a year for volunteering, and we offer up to two days holiday matching if they volunteer in their own time.
We have been involved in the Give As You Earn GAYE scheme for over 10 years, and topped-up staff contributions by up to 20%.
We support grant-giving schemes at many of our centres.
We run free events for shoppers and workers as part of our marketing activities.
We offer 15 500 bursaries for employees to support community groups they are involved in.
In the financial year our total cash contribution to communities, including funds granted by our Charities Committee, was 828,693.
However, we dont just write cheques.
Our community investment activities include the space we give away at our assets to help promote charities and local community events as well as the management time and expertise we put in across the portfolio to support good causes, education and training.
We also encourage our people to give time to help with volunteering and mentoring as well as invest at a local level in the promotion of local community events.
In all 1,144 separate instances of community investment took place in 2010 11, with over 10,194 hours of time given over to ensuring we played a full part in local community life.
If we add the value of all this space, time and promotion up, our investment in community activities is equivalent to 3.365m.
The value placed on these activities is in line with the London Benchmark Group denitions on measuring community involvement.
For a more detailed report and analysis, download our Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 at www.
com Our Corporate Responsibility Report and the progress we state against targets are assured by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited LRQA.
In addition, Corporate Citizenship an independent corporate responsibility and sustainability consultancy carries out a review of our report and our governance.
66 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate Responsibility Progress against our 10 year goals for 2010 11 Area and goal Focus Progress Reduce carbon emissions from managed portfolio While our carbon emissions are lower than our Environment to reduce our carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 against 2001 benchmark benchmark, the last year saw an increase in carbon by 30% by 2020 emissions from our portfolio.
We believe this was largely as a result of adverse weather conditions Increase the amount of waste reused recycled in Retail: diverted 78% of shopping centre waste from London and Retail Portfolios landll against target of 70% London: reused or recycled 70% of waste from our London managed ofce portfolio against target of 70% Establish long-term reduction target for water usage New water reduction technologies have been researched.
Normalised target will be set in 2011 12 People to be recognised in the UK as an employer Improve communication and understanding of New Team Talk initiative improved communication of business critical information across the Company critical information from management to employees, of choice for developing people to be the best they as demonstrated in an increased information ow can be score in employee engagement survey from 79% to 86% Gain internal and external recognition for our learning Internal: 74% of employees believe they had the and development initiatives opportunity to develop within their role External: retained Investors in People accreditation Improve overall satisfaction ratings in our annual London: survey achieved 4.18 score against a target Marketplace to set the standards for innovation, customer survey of 3.95. value and service that others aspire to Retail: survey achieved 4.27 score against a target of 4.17 Communities to be recognised by local Provide local unemployed with routes to work London-wide employment strategy pilot saw 23 local through construction and service functions people trained and recruited into construction jobs communities as the number one partner for the between November 2010 and February 2011 delivery of positive social and economic impacts Generate benets for the local community that ARISE grant giving programme extended to two address recognised local needs further shopping centres.
All donations in City of Westminster directly respond to local needs, as dened with the local authority Key focus on our 10 year goals for 2011 12 Area and goal Focus Reduce carbon emissions from managed portfolio by 30% by 2020 against 2001 benchmark Environment to reduce our carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 Increase amount of waste reused recycled in London and Retail Portfolios Reduce water consumption People to be recognised in the UK as an employer define leadership and develop a competency model and development framework to make progress towards having an identied internal successor for 50% of business-critical roles of choice for developing people to be the best they can be Marketplace to set the standards for innovation, Progress an introduction of London living wage to full time supply chain employees at 5 Strand head ofce value and service that others aspire to Communities to be recognised by local Provide local unemployed people with routes to work through construction and service functions communities as the number one partner for the Generate benets for the community that address recognised local needs delivery of positive social and economic impacts Land Securities Annual Report 2011 67
