London & Stamford Property Plc 14 Report and Accounts 2011 Environmental sustainability and social policy We recognise our responsibility to manage the environmental Asset management and social impact of our business activities and seek to Asset management projects are subcontracted.
The Group contribute to a low carbon economy through the responsible monitors the works, directly and in conjunction with project management of our portfolio.
These policies, together with our managers on larger projects, to ensure they are carried out in commitment to sustainability, are incorporated into our risk accordance with relevant guidelines and laws.
All subcontractors management strategy which has been reviewed during the year are assessed to ensure that they have sufficient resources to by the Board.
With regard to day to day management, we have set ourselves the following objectives: Environmental policy To ensure that as a management team we promote and An independent environmental report is required for all potential instigate environmental best practice throughout our acquisitions, which considers, amongst other matters, the managedportfolio.
historic and current usage of the site and the extent of any contamination present.
To promote environmental initiatives to our asset managers and require them to keep up to date with legislation.
The Group monitors all incoming tenants through its insurance programme to identify potential risk and to avoid high risk To encourage our asset managers to work with business activities.
As part of the active management of the environmentally responsible suppliers and contractors.
portfolio, any change in tenant business practice considered to To research and implement all sustainable energy uses be an environmental hazard is reported and suitably dealt with.
All sites are visited at least annually and any obvious To encourage the adoption of green travel plans and promote environmental issues are reported to the Board.
the use of shared transport or cycling to work by providing All leases will commit occupiers to observe any environmental appropriate amenities for our tenants.
To encourage community engagement by promoting the use of building amenities to the wider community and promote the Social policy use of local workforce by our tenants and contractors.
The activities of the Group are carried out in a responsible To minimise resource consumption by reducing wastage and manner, taking into account the social impact.
The two main recycling where appropriate.
areas of social impact have been identified as planning and asset improvement works which form part of our asset management To reduce energy consumption and investigate the potential strategy.
use of green energy wherever possible.
Our objective is to reduce demand, improve efficiencies and promote behavioural Planning change for all our asset managers and joint venture partners.
The Group considers the impact on the surrounding areas and To encourage our joint venture partners and asset managers communities where planning permissions are to be submitted toimplement green policies and initiatives and be more and considers the legitimate concerns of interested parties as environmentally conscious.
To comply with all applicable environmental statutes and regulations and comply with the Environmental Agencys Pollution Prevention Guidelines.
Review and responsibility The Social and Environmental policy is reviewed annually as part of the Groups corporate governance procedures.
Responsibility for the Social and Environmental Policy is a matter for the Board as a whole.
