34 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1.
Why is sustainability important to us?
Building sustainable The issue of sustainability sits at the heart of our momentum converging world.
It presents a valuable opportunity to help us re-invent the way brands are built because of its role in key consumer trends: Connected and concerned consumers Consumers are more connected than ever before through a multitude of devices.
Using social media technology, they constantly access content and entertainment on demand and increasingly value a brand that has a purpose and takes its corporate responsibility seriously Interactive and ambitious brands Brands, meanwhile, are building relationships and connections with their consumers through the same digital technologies as well as setting ambitious sustainability objectives and committing to wideranging corporate responsibility programmes Content and entertainment Brands use content and entertainment to forge a closer connection between consumers and their products and they increasingly use sustainability messages as content to engage and build a fan base.
As a result, Future Proof, our sustainability strategy, contributes to the success of our corporate strategy.
And it helps meet the Sustainability sits at the expectations of our main stakeholders: heart of the converging Clients We are a trusted part of brands supply chains to reach media environment their consumers.
In 2011 we saw a continuation of the rapid growth in sustainable procurement and supply chain initiatives that incorporated Aegis Media or one of its brands.
We responded to over 50 client requests around sustainability and corporate responsibility in 2011.
Our clients expect us to meet the highest standards around corporate responsibility.
We monitor our performance on sustainable supplier charters to ensure we respond effectively to client demands.
We partnered with Carbon Track to deliver some of the worlds first insight into the carbon footprint of marketing campaigns for our clients.
The Clownfish agency is our centre of excellence for delivering this branding and communications advice Employees Our annual employee opinion survey, Global Check-in, incorporated 4 questions around social and environmental issues in 2011.
Overall, our employees indicated that corporate responsibility and sustainability in particular the knowledge and capacity to integrate sustainability into job functions was a key driver of their engagement and commitment to the Group Investors To meet the growing demand from our investors around the reporting of non-financial information relating to our Corporate Responsibility credentials and how they impact the performance of our business, we continue to disclose key information to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the London Benchmarking Group LBG.
In addition, during 2011, we directly engaged with a number of leading Social Responsibility Investment analysis teams for feedback on our Corporate Responsibility strategy, performance and targets, and responded to requests from key Corporate Responsibility agencies, including Trucost and EIRIS.
35 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 partnership with Lebenshilfe Wien encourage our employees 2.
to think differently about problems.
Our evaluation of our worldwide community activities in 2011 showed that problem In 2010, we launched Future Proof, our corporate solving was the most improved skill amongst Aegis Media responsibility and sustainability strategy.
Future employees, which contributes to delivering innovative Proof is about ensuring that, whilst we continue to solutions for our clients improve our own performance as an organisation, Work place Being able to attract and retain the best industry talent enhances our ability to re-invent the way brands are we also act responsibly in the world around us.
The central role of digital in any modern marketing The vision of Future Proof is to create sustainable connections campaign has increased the need for digitally savvy staff: through a series of global initiatives that encourage stakeholders only the best industry talent can deliver our corporate vision to take locally relevant action using digital technology.
to re-invent the way brands are built.
A coherent and innovative CR strategy is a key element of our recruitment The Future Proof framework incorporates our minimum and retention approach: the 2011 Global Check-in our global standards around corporate responsibility governance and employee opinion survey clearly indicated that Future Proof reporting, sets a strategic direction for our Group with the knowledge and capacity to integrate sustainability into challenging short and long term targets, provides an innovative employees functions is a key driver of employee engagement model to deliver on our commitments and consists of a suite of and commitment.
Delivering integrated marketing campaigns standard tools and initiatives for all our businesses.
in over 80 countries requires that we cultivate collaboration, Future Proof makes a valuable contribution to our corporate integration and innovation amongst our employees.
The strategy through five areas of focus: Future Proof framework aims to bring all stakeholders, internally and externally, together to build trust to drive Environment In the light of rising energy costs and the scarcity collaboration.
Our global initiatives, such as GlobalGivingTIME, of other resources, it is imperative that we sensibly and carefully are focused on integration across brands and disciplines manage our allocation of financial and talent resources.
From a financial point of view, using sustainability to reconsider our Governance Our ability to engage our employees, to be resource consumption can lead to significant efficiencies.
credible to our clients and investors, and to involve our When we consolidated our 8 offices in London into 1 new green stakeholders in our initiatives depends on the trust in our building in 2011, for instance, we saved significantly on energy Group.
To enhance the internal and external trust of the consumption and costs due to the state-of-the-art ventilation Group it is essential to be responsible, responsive and system.
In addition, we are saving 26,000 A4 pages monthly transparent in what we do.
Our extensive public reporting and due to the introduction of the follow-me printing system and disclosure, with a very honest assessment of our successes enhanced electronic filing capabilities.
From a human resource and failures, makes a substantial contribution to building point of view, employees expect a strong commitment from trust in our business.
the Group on sustainability and our activities around enabling sustainable lifestyles through recycling and business travel 3.
Turning risks into opportunities enhance our ability to engage our employees Community As brands are engaging their consumer and fan The commitments and ambitions of our communities on sustainability, it is also essential that we invest Future Proof strategy help us manage the in our local communities to learn about consumer attitudes key CR risks facing the business.
and behaviour, maintain trust in the value of marketing as well as engage our future work force.
Our global community In 2011, Corporate Responsibility risks were incorporated in the initiative GlobalGivingTIME connects our employees with local Group risk management process, and the Global CR Manager communities through the sharing of marketing skills and became a member of the Group Risk Committee.
The digital nature of GlobalGivingTIME allows us to involve all stakeholders and help them to create practical Our approach to CR risks focuses on the issues that are change.
This strengthens our network of relationships and considered to be most material to Aegis Group plc.
In 2011 the insight into consumer attitudes and behaviour locally and standard of our CR risk assessment was increased to better reflect globally.
And these digital technologies open up huge the Group-wide risk identification and evaluation procedures.
opportunities to build scalable, replicable, and connected In addition, for the first time, the Global Reporting Initiative initiatives that empower people and spark action.
We harness GRI and Carbon Disclosure Project CDP guidelines on risk the power of digital for our clients to deliver change, whether assessment were applied to the review of the CR Risk Register.
it is consumer attitudes or behaviour As a consequence, our key CR risks and opportunities have Market place Using their connected devices, consumers changed substantially.
For other Group risks, including those directly engage with brands through content and relating to our employees, please see Principal Risks and entertainment.
As a result, it takes unique and creative Uncertainties on pages 30 to 33. solutions for a brand to stand out in a crowded marketplace.
Our employees need to be able to quickly master our clients brands, understand the target audience and deliver innovative and exciting ways for brands and consumers to connect.
Projects such as Posterscope USAs partnership with the United Nations Foundation or Aegis Media Austrias BUSINESS REVIEW 36 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 3.
Turning risks into opportunities continued Key risk Risk assessment Risk mitigation Group is not able to predict, afford or Operational disruption due to extreme CR Department is responsible for minimum respond accurately to the rising expenditure weather conditions: high operational costs standards on environmental performance on environmental compliance, reporting due to increased energy and travel costs: and reporting.
Together with our network of and or environmental emission tax.
higher tax exposure due to emission Green Beans it works on decreasing our taxation: reputation costs connected with energy and travel emissions.
not taking any action on environmental stewardship.
Key opportunity Potential upside Action Industry leadership around environmental Increased efficiency and cost savings: CR Department is responsible for management and reporting: additional stronger reputation and visibility meeting CR objectives.
Green Thread in services purchased by clients around by clients around environmental ICP developed.
Awareness of Future greener advertising campaigns: more performance: higher revenues and more Proof increasing through engaging effective and innovative campaigns using diversified revenues: more successful new communications.
Key risk Risk assessment Risk mitigation Group is not able to measure, manage Unintended impact of the Companys CR Department is responsible for and mitigate the potential negative services in the downstream supply managing upstream and downstream community and environmental impacts chain due to: 1. a breach of standards, supply chain monitoring and reporting.
of its downstream supply chain activities, voluntary codes related to marketing Together with brands it monitors from ethical advertising to green communications, including advertising, compliance on Code of Conduct and advertising campaigns.
promotion and sponsorship 2. a product industry codes and deploys wide range service that is seen as unethical or of community activities.
insensitive, or socially exclusive and or environmentally polluting.
Key opportunity Potential upside Action Industry leadership around meeting all Licence to operate: increased new CR Department is responsible for supply industry requirements, and engaging business and client revenue opportunities: chain and community monitoring and positively with local community.
Additional stronger client relationships: higher reporting: community initiatives such as revenues and diversification of revenues revenues due to new services.
Key risk Risk assessment Risk mitigation Group is not able to report accurate, Inability of the Group to 1. show evidence CR Department is responsible for reliable and or credible sustainability & of accurate, effective and credible measurement, monitoring and reporting: corporate responsibility data, information reporting in the Annual Report & Accounts providing risk register: identifying and and statements or is not able to evidence and the CR Report 2. show evidence of mitigating CR risks and meeting effective sustainability & corporate effective scrutiny and oversight of the stakeholder expectations.
The CR Steering responsibility measurement, oversight CR risks, opportunities and programmes Group is responsible for oversight.
3. identify, manage and mitigate risks & opportunities around sustainability & CR and 4. recognise increasing expectations of stakeholders around governance in this area.
Key opportunity Potential upside Action Industry leadership from reliable and Stronger client relationships: stronger CR Department is responsible for useful monitoring and reporting: reputation management.
measurement and reporting, improving exceeding client requirements.
the quality, reliability and accuracy of the data and responding to client requests.
GOVERNANCE PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT 37 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4.
Progress & performance As part of the Future Proof strategy, we set ourselves some ambitious targets, both for the short term and the long term.
Here we report on our progress.
Short term targets Progress 2012 Targets 2011 Targets We completed a strategic review We will rally the Green Bean network We will confirm a new strategy, of our environmental strategy.
around 2 global environmental targets and base-line year for carbon We expanded our material impacts.
awareness campaigns: Earth reduction, including an expansion of Hour Earth Day and Clean It Up!
We expanded the Green Bean We will complete a pilot project around We will expand the Green Bean network internally to full complement.
network and ISO14001 environmental We launched the Aegis Media Green accreditation across our businesses.
We will work with facilities and Standard in 4 markets.
management to increase the number of offices having the Aegis Media Green Standard to 10 material markets in 2012.
Progress 2012 Targets 2011 Targets We are on track with rolling out the Upon reaching global coverage with We will roll out the GlobalGivingTIME GlobalGivingTIME initiative but have GlobalGivingTIME, we will launch initiative globally.
not yet reached global coverage.
this global initiative with one of our external stakeholders.
We will work with the material markets to launch local partnerships to build on our global initiative.
We will rally the Aegis Media CARES We expanded the Aegis Media CARES We will expand the Aegis Media CARES network around 2 global community network to a full complement for network across our businesses.
campaigns: Volunteer Challenge and every office.
Progress 2012 Targets 2011 Targets We developed the first iteration of We will work with the product team to We will provide standard structures, the Green Thread as part of our train media planners and buyers in the useful tools and training for our proprietary client delivery tools.
Green Thread in 2 material markets.
people to integrate sustainability We raised awareness on the role considerations in product and of sustainability in marketing.
Progress 2012 Targets 2011 Targets We improved the integration of We will ensure that 65% of our We will exploit further opportunities sustainability in employee recruitment, employees know what they can where corporate responsibility can induction and training but have not yet contribute to the Future Proof make a vital contribution to the reached full coverage on learning & strategy in their functions.
success of our people agenda.
Progress 2012 Targets 2011 Targets We increased data quality and reliability We will increase compliance with We will continue to improve the through the engagement of internal internal CR policies and protocols to accuracy, robustness and and external audit.
We re-structured 85% of our business units.
appropriateness of our corporate risk evaluation and management.
responsibility governance and We will achieve a GRI C for our reporting structures.
Completed On track Not yet achieved GOVERNANCE WORK PLACE MARKET PLACE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS REVIEW 38 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued We launched the Aegis Media Green Standard in 4 markets: 4.
Progress & performance continued Poland, Austria, Switzerland and Germany to work towards reviewing their environmental performance in their offices to Environment Enabling sustainable lifestyles reach the best practice of the Aegis Media Green Standard.
In 2011, we conducted a strategic review of our environmental This process brings together facilities, finance, HR, strategy, targets and base-line year after the expiry of our communications and Green Beans in every market to 2010 targets.
align their environmental efforts to the global strategy As a result of this review and stakeholder consultation, we As part of an ongoing office consolidation and resource decided to expand the scope of our disclosure beyond our efficiency drive globally, we moved to our new 10 Triton Street energy and business travel emissions, to include indirect headquarters in London.
This new building for over 1,000 greenhouse gas emissions as part of the wider value chain employees meets the highest environmental standards and and multiple stakeholders.
Our environmental approach is three-pronged: What did not go so well?
We did not achieve limited assurance on our basic raising internal environmental awareness and activity environmental data in 2010.
As a result, we were not able through our Green Bean network of environmental to move the baseline year from 2008 to 2010 as planned champions around global campaigns and local initiatives to change behaviour We did not have sufficiently detailed and reliable data on our tier 1 supply chain to establish a first baseline of our working closely with facilities and procurement managers upstream scope 3 emissions.
As a result of our initial in our material markets to achieve the Aegis Media Green assessment in 2011, it was determined that our only global Standard equivalent to ISO14001 in our material markets supply line is our IT hardware and software from laptops to engaging internal and external stakeholders in a global servers.
In our decentralised management structure, our environmental initiative that uses digital technology to take other suppliers are selected and managed at a local level locally relevant steps to reduce our carbon footprint in our We have not been able to launch a global initiative that meets value chain.
our Future Proof model: using digital innovation to enable What went well?
employees and other stakeholders to take direct, locally Reflecting two years of constant improvement, we achieved relevant action to reduce environmental pollution.
our highest ever score in the Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 Targets CDP in 2011, making us the no.
We will rally the Green Bean network around 2 global With a disclosure score of 79, the CDP suggests senior environmental awareness campaigns: Earth Hour Earth Day management understand the business issues related to and Clean It Up!
climate change and are building climate change risks and opportunities into core business We will complete a pilot project around our global environmental initiative.
We achieved an 8.6% decrease in our carbon footprint intensity.
We reduced our scope 1 2 emissions intensity by 12.8% and We will work with facilities and management to increase the our business travel scope 3 emissions by 3.4%.
This decrease number of offices having the Aegis Media Green Standard to 10 was noticeable across all our regions and represents the of our material markets in 2012. outcome of the ongoing Aegis Media Green Standard process and the Green Bean awareness efforts We achieved an increase in the rate of recycling and the number of recycling streams across our agencies to 58% in 2011.
This is one of the first steps that offices can take to move from our minimum standards on the way to the Aegis Media Green Standard set of best practices.
For the first time, we disclose an estimate of our downstream scope 3 emissions around the environmental impacts of the media services we provide: 2,163,137 metric tonnes of CO.
Using the Carbon Track tool, we strongly believe this 2 information sheds light on the position of marketing in global emissions and will open up new avenues to devise environmentally friendly solutions in the marketing value chain 39 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Community Promoting sustainable communities The top impacts on our employees include 74.4% of employees indicating a positive change in attitude and behaviour.
They also With the achievement of our community target in 2010, our reported an increase in problem solving and communication community strategy remained the same throughout 2011. skills, for instance, as a result of using GlobalGivingTIME in As part of the strategic review, however, new targets were 2011.
Our champions reported that 55.7% of our charitable confirmed and the scope of community investment was activities increased employee pride and commitment in Aegis, increased to include all our stakeholders.
with 15.2% raising the profile of the company Our community approach is three-pronged: We were able to measure our community investment both in terms of generic time and specialist pro-bono volunteering raising internal social awareness through our Aegis Media for the first time, and gained a good insight into the leverage CARES network of community champions around global our charitable activities provided for further fundraising and campaigns to build a culture of volunteering corporate support through discounted and or free media working with material markets to launch specific local space for charitable partners.
In association with our media partnerships to build on our global community initiative partners, around 3.45m worth of media space was procured for supported charities, and a total of 0.45m in pro bono engaging internal and external stakeholders in our global time donated.
community initiative GlobalGivingTIME that uses digital What did not go so well?
technology to take locally relevant steps to increase our community investment.
We did not achieve limited assurance on our basic community data in 2010.
As a result, we were not able to move the What went well?
baseline year from 2008 to 2010 as planned We remained part of the FTSE4Good index, which includes all environmentally and socially responsibly run companies We did not succeed in fully rolling out the GlobalGivingTIME in the FTSE.
We scored above average in the first ESG initiative to all our markets in 2011.
This is partially due assessment as part of FTSE4Good in 2011 to this years strategic review, but also due to significant restructuring across regions in 2011 Building on our first attempt last year, we measured our community impacts based on the London Benchmarking Not every one of our material markets developed a specific Group LBG guidelines for reporting charitable activities.
local partnership in 2011 to build on our global community This has resulted in a better ability to evaluate the impact initiative.
of Future Proof on local communities, and a deeper level of 2012 Target insight into our activities, both in terms of inputs and outputs We will rally the Aegis Media CARES network around 2 global We continued to increase the value of our community community campaigns, our Volunteer Challenge and our investment to 5.48m in 2011, a threefold increase on 2010.
This represents 3.4% of pre-tax profits, 0.5% of revenues and Upon reaching global coverage with GlobalGivingTIME, we will approximately 0.6% of our employees time, expertise and launch this global initiative with one of our external stakeholders.
This puts us well on track to reach our goal of sharing 1% of employees time by 2015 We will work with the material markets to launch a local partnership to build on our global community initiative We increased our level of employee engagement by 12.5% in GlobalGivingTIME.
2011 to a total of 3,128 employees involved in Future Proof.
In total, they volunteered 17,490 hours for charitable causes The top 3 charitable causes across our global network were Education & Young People, Social Welfare and Health.
We also saw a shift from charitable gifts one-off donations to more strategic and longer-term engagements.
An example of this is Aegis Media Switzerlands launch of the Kanzlei Kinder project, focused on cleaning up the local square for children to use In 2011, 346 charities were helped in 210 activities, with a total of 4,777 beneficiaries, of which 60.5% reported a positive change in behaviour or attitude as a result of our support BUSINESS REVIEW 40 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Work place Rewarding and connected 4.
Progress & performance continued We want to foster a rewarding and connected work place, which Market place Pioneering and ambitious stimulates collaboration and innovation.
Our focus is on integrating sustainability considerations in our To meet and exceed our clients expectations, we need to attract, products and services.
develop and retain the best industry talent, ensuring they have the skills that reflect the converging nature of media, such as As a trusted part of brands supply chains, we worked hard digital and insight capacity.
in 2011 to deliver pioneering and ambitious communication solutions to our clients.
Increasingly, clients deploy sustainability Our work place approach is three-pronged: as more than a point of compliance but as a point of competitive meeting and exceeding employees expectations around differentiation as well as an opportunity to engage their corporate responsibility and sustainability to enhance customers actively around their products.
engagement and commitment of our workforce Our market place approach is three-pronged: stimulating a culture of innovation and collaboration meeting and exceeding our clients requirements around internally through using sustainability initiatives to break sustainability and corporate responsibility in their supply chain down geographic and brand barriers, and build trust investing in training for our client practitioners to raise developing our talent through the effective integration of awareness of and proficiency in developing effective and sustainability in the induction, learning & development and successful but greener marketing campaigns management training across the Group.
raising awareness internally and externally around the role What went well?
sustainability plays in delivering content and entertainment Enhancing employee engagement and commitment is a key and its contribution to brand development.
part of our sustainability initiatives.
In 2011, 47% of employee volunteers responded that it made me proud of the company What went well?
as it has a better reputation The CR Department contributed and responded to a record number of RfPs, RfQs, tenders, pitches and supplier charters In 2011, our annual employee opinion survey, Global Checkthis year, with a 5 fold increase on requests since 2010.
We in, indicated that corporate responsibility and sustainability were proud to meet our clients sustainability requirements is a key aspect of employees engagement and commitment and gained Sustainable Supply Chain Data Exchange Sedex to the Group.
In particular, the knowledge and capacity to membership.
We also responded to Ecovadis and CDP Supply integrate sustainability into ones function was a key driver Chain requests on behalf of our clients and 53% of our employees indicated they felt they knew how Future Proof was contributing to doing a better job In conjunction with our sustainability communications agency Clownfish, we developed the first iteration of the Green In 2011, our sustainability initiatives made a valuable Thread as part of our proprietary client delivery tools.
With contribution towards learning & development of our people.
input from representatives across our agencies, we built a For instance, our evaluation showed that the most improved number of key consumer insights, client case studies and skills through volunteering on GlobalGivingTIME were best practice to highlight the role sustainability could play communication, adaptability and problem solving.
This focus in delivering more sustainable marketing campaigns on up-skilling and capacity building for Aegis employees makes a robust contribution to the Groups sustainability Aegis Media was recognised for its leadership role in the in the longer term World Economic Forum WEF Scaling Sustainable Consumption initiative.
The Chair of the CR Steering We launched our Code of Conduct in 6 languages in 2011 Group, Nigel Morris, contributed to its development in 2011, to reinforce the importance of meeting high standards of culminating in a report in January 2012 at the Davos annual ethical behaviour.
Employees can report any potential breaches meeting, where he hosted a panel around this issue.
of the Code of Conduct to the dedicated Speak Up facility completely confidentially.
We are not yet able to meet sub-contractor i. e. our Tier 1 or Tier 2 suppliers expectations of our clients.
This is the We did not achieve widespread integration of sustainability result of our materiality assessment, where our Tier 1 supply in induction, training & development and management chain was not deemed as important as other, more direct training beyond the UK and US markets.
However, we discern a trend towards our subdevolved nature of learning and development in 2011, with contractors being regularly included in our clients supplier local markets having responsibility for the development charters and may well have to be included to be able to meet and execution of these programmes.
these new requirements in the near future.
2012 Target 2012 Target We will ensure that 65% of our employees know what they can We will work with the product team to train media planners and contribute to the Future Proof strategy in their functions.
buyers in the Green Thread in 2 material markets.
41 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Responsible, responsive and transparent What did not go so well?
Whilst we engaged investors and investment companies on The CR Steering Group met 5 times in 2011 to hold the CR our sustainability progress, we have yet to approach clients, Department and the Group to account on the progress and suppliers or vendors for feedback performance of Future Proof.
Its remit is to uphold the highest governance standards around corporate responsibility and Feedback from a range of internal and external stakeholders sustainability across Aegis.
indicated that our short and medium term targets were not sufficiently monitored with KPIs to be able to be scrutinised Our governance approach is three-pronged: and benchmarked appropriately.
recognising our corporate responsibility by taking a 2012 Target leadership position around the role of sustainability in media and marketing, from emissions to responsible advertising We will increase compliance with internal CR policies and protocols to 85% of our business units.
showing responsiveness by proactively engaging with our internal and external stakeholders and responding to their We will achieve a GRI C for our CR reporting over 2012. comments and concerns striving for transparency through disclosing the good and the bad news, and progressively disclosing more indicators to present a fuller picture of the value chain.
In 2011, we were awarded the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Award for Best Sustainability and Stakeholder Disclosure in the FTSE250.
This reflects our commitment to being responsible, responsive and transparent in our CR reporting.
The judges commented that Aegis was chosen not just for its clear explanation of progress made over the year but also for its honesty on a range of sustainability topics and related challenges regarding its Future Proof programme We executed our first CR Audit Plan in 2011 in conjunction with Internal Audit and our external CR auditors .
As part of our Compliance Certification process, compliance with internal policies such as the CR Reporting Policy and Charitable Donations Policy is assessed.
More than 75% of our entities selfreported compliance on internal CR policies.
In addition, the CR Department also executed detailed audit visits to assess compliance with the CR Protocol in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy, United States and Canada.
Whilst no substantial non-compliance was uncovered, recommendations for improvement were made In 2011, CR risks were incorporated in the Group risk management process and the Global CR Manager became a member of the Group Risk Committee.
This also led to a significant upgrade of risk identification and evaluation standards, using both Internal Audit as well as GRI guidelines on CR risks to review materiality in the CR Risk Register.
BUSINESS REVIEW 42 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 4.
Progress & performance continued Long term targets summary Progress 2015 Targets We are on track to achieve this target.
In 2011, we decreased We will reduce our carbon footprint per average full-time our carbon footprint intensity by 8.6%.
We are not yet on track to achieve this target.
We have not We will enable our stakeholders suppliers, clients, vendors yet developed, piloted and launched a global environmental and consumers to reduce their carbon footprint.
Progress 2015 Targets We are on track to achieve this target.
In 2011, we increased We will donate 1% of our employees time to charitable the donation to 0.6% of our employees time.
We have not We will enable our stakeholders suppliers, clients, vendors yet launched our GlobalGivingTIME initiative beyond our and consumers to increase their community involvement.
We completed the We will ensure that 90% of our practitioners receive training first iteration of the Green Thread in 2011 and are set for in client delivery tools incorporating community and launch and implementation in 2012. environmental considerations.
In 2011, our employee We will ensure that 90% of our employees know what they can opinion survey, Global Check-in, indicated that currently contribute to the Future Proof strategy in their roles by 2015.
53% of our employees globally know what it takes for them to contribute to Future Proof.
In 2011, our CR Risk We will achieve a GRI A accreditation on our annual Register was updated by undertaking materiality tests in line CR reporting by 2015. with GRI guidelines.
We will separately publish our first GRI CR Report.
Completed On track Not yet achieved GOVERNANCE WORK PLACE MARKET PLACE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 43 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5.
Key data Adjusted Greenhouse Gas Emissions baseline CO 000 tonnes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG emissions 15,258 14,863 14,994 11,526 Scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel 13,572 11,935 10,038 9,232 Total gross emissions 28,830 26,799 25,032 20,757 Intensity 2.38 2.60 2.45 1.99 Scope 3 GHG emissions from media 2,163,137 n a n a n a Adjusted Community investment baseline In GBP 000 2011 2010 2009 2008 Financial contributions 1,072 130 172 1,880 of which employee fundraising 119 n a n a n a Time contributions 194 787 200 75 In-kind contributions 3,999 253 853 455 of which pro-bono time 451 n a n a n a of which leverage such as media space 3,455 n a n a n a Management costs 220 75 n a n a Total contributions 5,484 1,245 1,212 2,410 % of pre-tax profits 3.4% 1.0% 0.3% 1.0% Total number of employee volunteers 3,128 2,737 1,066 2,811 Total number of hours volunteered by employees 17,490 25,681 n a n a Notes Environmental impacts are restated in previous periods to exclude Synovate but to include, in all previous years, the environmental impacts for acquisitions completed up to the end of 2010.
The community investment information in previous years is restated on a Retained Group basis.
Scope 1 includes greenhouse gas GHG emissions from natural gas only Scope 2 includes GHG emissions from the consumption of conventional electricity only Scope 3 GHG emissions from business travel includes emissions resulting from business travel with trains, airplanes and cars Scope 3 GHG emissions from media includes emissions resulting from the dissemination of advertising through media channels such as cinema, TV, newspapers, magazines and outdoor Intensity is based on our gross emissions per average Full Time Equivalent FTE employee Not included are: GHG emissions from refrigerants, oil, and other gases than CO : 2 GHG emissions resulting from our consumption of paper and water, or our disposal of waste: GHG emissions through our tier I and II suppliers our upstream supply chain.
Financial contributions refers to corporate charitable donations including employee fundraising facilitated by the Group Time contributions refers to the monetary equivalent of the time donated by Group employees during working hours In-kind contributions refers to the monetary equivalent of the in-kind donations by the Group, including the donation of free or heavily discounted media and marketing services pro bono and other donations leveraged by our employees from clients and suppliers such as free or discounted media space.
Management costs refers to the monetary equivalent of the time invested by Group employees in organising, managing and reporting on community activities 6.
Contacts and feedback We welcome feedback.
If you have any comments regarding this CR Report or any aspect of Aegis Groups corporate responsibility and sustainability work, please contact: Frank Krikhaar Global Corporate Responsibility Manager Aegis Group plc 10 Triton Street Regents Place London NW1 3BF For more information on our corporate responsibility and sustainability work, or if you would prefer to email us with your comments, please visit our website at www.
com or email futureproof@aegisplc.
