PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY INTRODUCTION For 90 years our success has been founded on BY INVESTING IN OUR our ability to adapt to and meet the changing BUILDINGS, EMPLOYEES AND requirements of customers, whether they are LOCAL COMMUNITIES SEGRO international brands or local start-ups.
We view sustainability as a fundamental part of the way CAN DRIVE BOTH VALUE in which we do business and believe that, by NOW AND IN THE FUTURE investing in our buildings, our employees and the local communities in which we operate, we can create value for our stakeholders.
Whilst we have continued to report against We last reviewed our sustainability strategy, these targets in 2011, we will be looking again and set targets, in 2009.
Our aim was to ensure at our sustainability strategy in 2012 to ensure that we were focused on the most important that the areas we concentrate on are fully sustainability issues, which we gauged through aligned with the new Group strategy to deliver external and internal stakeholder dialogues, whilst progressive, sustainable dividend and resilient taking into account any potential impact on our NAV growth for shareholders.
performance, reputation or customer satisfaction.
As part of this review, we have begun consultations with stakeholders and will conclude this process during 2012.
We will also be taking into consideration recent or upcoming changes to legislation that are likely to impact upon our business, such as the Energy Act 2011 and Localism Act 2011.
As a result, we expect to make some changes to our sustainability strategy and strengthen the structures we have in place to manage sustainability.
These changes, will be designed to ensure that sustainability is more fully integrated into our operations and supports our vision to be the best ownermanager and developer of industrial property in Europe.
We intend to report our new strategy, outline new targets and report our performance against the targets in our Sustainability Report for the 12 months ending 31 December 2012.
DAVID SLEATH CHIEF EXECUTIVE CREATING VALUE THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 www.
com Performance Review A CLEAR AND SUSTAINABLE STRATEGY Our sustainability strategy was developed in 2009 and covers six key areas: ACCESSIBILITY RESOURCE To ensure that our properties EFFICIENCY are accessible by more than To use energy, water and one mode of transport materials responsibly, increasing reusing and recycling STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABILITY FLEXIBILITY To listen to our stakeholders To construct buildings that and respond to their feedback can be easily adaptable for to meet their changing needs VALUE multiple uses SAFETY To maintain an excellent COMMUNITIES health and safety record by To make a positive implementing robust contribution to communities management controls in which SEGRO has a and careful auditing significant presence procedures Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE As part of our five-year strategy, we set 11 longer-term sustainability targets which we aim to achieve by 2014 across the categories of Customers, Resource efficiency, Communities and Accessibility and 2011 marks the second year of assessment against these targets.
Two of our targets have been achieved: six targets are on track to be achieved and only one target requires significant work to be on track to be achieved.
Two of our targets are no longer deemed to be applicable to our business.
We also set five annual targets for 2011, across the categories of Safety and Customers, of which four were fully achieved and one was not achieved.
Further details can be found in the performance table below: TARGET 2011 PROGRESS TARGET DATE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ASSET DESIGN AND REFURBISHMENT Construct buildings with 30 per cent better Our current developments, when completed, are forecast to achieve 26 per cent better 2014 energy efficiency than base-build.
energy efficiency on average than current standards.
In the UK the target is being met with a 36 per cent average better efficiency.
In Continental Europe the average energy efficiency is below the 30 per cent target.
Therefore, on a Group-wide basis this target is still in progress.
Incorporate water-efficiency measures and The installation of water-saving design features means that our new buildings, 2014 water recycling to reduce mains water use developed in 2011 and 2012, when completed, are forecast to use 12 per cent less by 20 per cent compared to base-build.
mains water on average than current standards.
RENEWABLES Investigate the feasibility of renewable We investigated the feasibility of renewable energy sources at 13 out of 18of our 2014 energy for every development site.
new developments, including all of the UK sites.
Four of these sites are taking forward renewable energy sources, with the capacity to provide 681 MWh per annum when completed.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Improve SEGROs energy The challenges with energy data collection, in particular the nature of our portfolio 2014 efficiency by 30 per cent.
where there are many individual units on multi-let industrial estates, have been discussed in our two previous Sustainability Reports.
It has taken considerable time to get to a point where we are confident in the robustness and accuracy of the energy data collection and validation processes across the whole of the portfolio.
We are now in a position to establish a roadmap for achieving the 30 per cent reduction target, including dening which assets are suitable for reductions.
However, we recognise that there is significant work to do to achieve this target.
Reduce water use by 20 per cent.
SEGROs landlord-consumed water consumption was 62,000 cubic metres.
Relative to 2014 our peers this is a small amount of consumption.
Therefore we have decided that this target is not currently material for our business as it is much more important that we focus on increasing the water efficiency of the buildings we design and refurbish, as well as engaging with our customers on how they can manage water more efficiently.
Excludes data for one quarter of UK consumption.
Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of We reused or recycled 97 per cent of all non-hazardous excavation, demolition and 2014 development waste.
construction waste, diverting 340,366 tonnes of waste from landll and exceeding our target.
Reduce the weight of development SEGRO no longer considers this target to be applicable due to the achievement 2014 waste to landll by 70 per cent.
of 97 per cent re-use or recycling of developments in 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 36 www.
com Performance Review TARGET 2011 PROGRESS TARGET DATE COMMUNITIES 2011 Invest in communities where we have We invested over 1.7 million in good causes, through money, time and business a major presence.
We invested in local communities around four of our largest business locations in the UK: Park Royal, Slough, Heathrow and Eneld.
2011 Ensure community engagement plans are We are in the process of implementing and maintaining structured community in place where we have a major presence.
In 2011 we began programmes in Hounslow, Ealing and Hillingdon in the UK.
During 2012, a structured approach to community engagement for Continental Europe will be established with our operations teams in Paris and Dsseldorf.
STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS Continental Europe target only Satisfaction with our understanding of customer business needs increased 2011 To improve customer satisfaction with our from 57 per cent in 2009 to 62 per cent in 2011, whilst satisfaction with our understanding of their business needs from communication increased from 76 per cent to 87 per cent.
Overall satisfaction 57 per cent in 2009, by focusing on customer remained high at 75 per cent.
relationship management, as measured through our 2011 survey.
Continental Europe target only Compared to 2009 gures consistency improved in several areas, and we now 2011 To continue to improve consistency in satisfaction demonstrate high consistency in communication and responsiveness, property levels between countries, as measured through management and overall satisfaction as an occupier.
A decline in consistency in our 2011 survey, by implementing smart, efficient the areas of value for money, rent and service charges is mainly explained by customer service procedures.
Engage with a significant number of customers In 2011 we engaged with 58 customers on sustainability issues.
As part of this 2014 to improve sustainability.
24 new lease contracts contained Green Leases and Memoranda of Understanding, an increase of 10 over 2010 gures.
In total 90 contracts contain Green Lease clauses, representing 11.5m in annualised rental income, which equates to around 3.5 per cent of total Group-wide rent.
By the end of the year 81 lease contracts contained the newly-revised Eco efficiency guide for customers occupying SEGRO buildings.
SAFETY 2011 Maintain a zero fatality rate throughout A zero fatality rate was maintained throughout Group operations during 2011.
2011 Ensure no health and safety prosecutions or We received one health and safety prosecution and enforcement action over enforcement action throughout Group operations.
All conditions contained in the prohibition notice from the local authority have been complied with by SEGRO.
Implement assessment and training requirements Implementation of the Driving for Work Policy has been by means of corporate 2011 for the Group-wide Driving for Work Policy.
communication, online driver awareness training and online driver assessment for employees.
The next steps during 2012 are to use assessments to identify further training needs and to implement the policy in Continental Europe.
ACCESSIBILITY & FLEXIBILITY For all appropriate new developments and The number of green travel plans covering our major estates has increased to five 2014 managed estates to have a tailored travel plan.
We continue to maintain and develop those plans established previously.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 www.
com LEED AWARD AT ENERGY PARK, VIMERCATE 1 st building IN ITALY AWARDED LEED PLATINUM In November 2011 SEGRO was LEED promotes a whole building awarded the prestigious LEED approach to sustainability, recognising Leadership in Energy and performance in key areas such as water Environmental Design Platinum efficiency, materials and resources, Certicate by the US Green Building awareness and education and innovation Council, for one of its buildings at in design.
Energy Park, Vimercate in Italy.
This is Building 03 totals 11,000 sq m and was the first building in Italy and one of only constructed in 2009.
Its major occupier six buildings in Europe to have received is SAP ITALIA SpA, a leading provider of this level of accreditation.
The award recognises that the building, known as Building 03, has been built and designed to the highest standards of sustainable practices.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38 www.
com Performance Review RESOURCE EFFICIENCY COMMUNITIES As part of our drive to reduce both energy SEGRO invested more than 1.7 million in consumption and costs, we appointed a good causes and local communities based specialist energy consultancy, Inenco, during around its largest business locations during the year.
As a result we have in place a new 2011 by donating money, time and business bespoke energy procurement strategy and an space.
This represents a 42 per cent increase early warning system to monitor any spikes in on the prior year 2010: 1.2 million.
consumption throughout our UK operations.
We are also rolling out the installation of During 2011 we actively increased our automated meter readers to our properties, engagement in the communities in which we which will give us a greater level of control operate, supporting 80 charities and community over our energy data and help with future groups compared with 52 in 2010.
We have also taken to offer a wide variety of support to local and steps internally during 2011 to strengthen the national organisations to help ensure their quality and coverage of our data across our needs are met, including the provision of free operations in Continental Europe.
commercial space, business advice and guidance and donating much needed cash and equipment.
During 2011 we purchased 54.8 million kWh As well as maintaining and developing links of energy 2010: 40.5 million kWh, both for with many charities, such as Berkshire East and our own use and on behalf of our customers.
South Bucks Womens Aid, new and exciting This is an increase compared to 2010, largely as partnerships have been formed.
In October 2010, a result of the implementation of more rigorous we teamed up with Alexander Devine Childrens data collection procedures across the business.
Hospice Trust to work towards building Berkshires Whilst the number of estates reported in 2011 very own childrens hospice for local families by was broadly comparable to 2010, the number of helping the Trust to establish new fundraising meters being captured within these estates headquarters on the Slough Trading Estate.
As a result, our total carbon footprint from landlord-purchased energy, excluding that SEGRO made a number of cash donations in which was exclusively metered to tenants across 2011.
We continued our popular community Continental Europe, also increased to 21,200 bursary scheme in Heywood, through which tonnes 2010: 15,200 tonnes.
seven charities received funding, and we made new donations to community centres in Slough, Total energy expenditure on our managed Hounslow and Ealing to support the development multi-let and vacant properties declined to of young people from deprived backgrounds.
2.1 million in 2011 2010: 2.3 million, SEGRO will continue to work with these largely due to the reduction in vacancy across community centres throughout 2012.
For our portfolio during the year.
In addition, a the fourth consecutive year, we supported The process of rationalising supplier contracts, which Outward Bound Trust, which provides commenced in 2010, benefitted vacant energy residential courses to help young people from costs through a more competitive unit price.
challenging backgrounds to develop new skills and confidence.
We purchased 62,400 cubic metres of water in 2011 2010: 68,700 cubic metres and Voluntary community investment m continued to work with our customers to reduce water costs by installing dual-ush toilets, 1.7million low-ow taps, automatic urinal ushing and by introducing rainwater harvesting schemes.
11 1.7 10 1.2 We reused or recycled 340,400 tonnes of development waste 2010: 6,900 tonnes, 09 1.2 reecting the increased level of development Employee time Cash Business space activity in both the UK and Continental Europe during 2011 compared with the prior year.
One of the major initiatives we have undertaken in recent years has been to increase the number of photovoltaic panel installations on our buildings.
During 2011, we assessed the feasibility of installing renewable energy sources at all of our UK developments and over 60 per cent of our Continental European developments contracted or under construction during the year.
As at 31 December 2011 we had installed renewable energy sources at 18 of our properties.
In addition, over 1,000 of our buildings across the UK and Continental Europe, representing 1.8 million sq m, were EPC-rated, of which 74 per cent achieved a rating of D or above.
A further 28 buildings in Germany and Flemish Belgium were rated under local standards, of which 25 were rated as more efficient than their 2010 restated to exclude expenditure recharged to market average benchmark.
customers via a service charge Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED NATIONAL AWARDS HIGHLIGHT TOP LOCAL PARTNERSHIP In July, SEGRO and Berkshire East & South Bucks Womens Aid won Best Small Charity Business Partnership at the prestigious Institute of Fundraising National Awards.
The award recognised that SEGRO had donated muchneeded ofce space and professional support to the charity, enabling it to develop its award-winning Independent Domestic Violence Advocacy service which supports victims of domestic abuse.
With SEGROs help, this service reached over 800 victims last year and also received the Queens Award for Voluntary Service.
Additionally, in November around Our Suppliers STAKEHOLDERS 80 institutional investors and analysts attended We implemented a new procurement policy Our Customers an Investor Day at which our new strategy for the in the UK in 2010 to reduce our supplier business was outlined.
This included site visits base and forge closer relationships with a 2011 Group customer satisfaction to operations at the Slough Trading Estate and smaller number of suppliers.
During 2011 rating as good or excellent Park Royal.
Throughout the year we hosted a we have continued to rationalise our supplier further 13 visits for professional investors to our base and now directly deal with less than one 78% satisfaction as an occupier assets in the UK and Continental Europe.
quarter of the original number of suppliers.
In 2011 this included the rationalisation of our Satisfaction as an occupier 78 We ensure that the Chairman and Senior estate management supply chain, such that all Performance of SEGRO 74 Independent Director are available to our service charge recoverable services are now shareholders, should they have any concerns provided by less than 25 suppliers compared Building 80 where contact through our usual channels with around 300 in recent years, generating Property management 82 has failed to resolve or is otherwise significant savings.
All Board Directors are Communication 78 available for meetings with shareholders.
Additionally, prior to the award of any new supply agreement we now ensure that all A Group-wide customer satisfaction survey The Companys website www.
com suppliers comply with our health and safety and was carried out during the year with over provides all shareholders with comprehensive environmental policies.
In 2011, 480 suppliers 200 SEGRO customers across eight countries, information on the Groups recent business were assessed on this basis 2010: nil.
the results of which were very encouraging activities and financial developments.
and underline our increasing commitment Shareholders can access this information During the year, we started a phased roll-out of to working closely with and meeting the through webcasts, press releases and our procurement policy to Continental Europe needs of our customers.
interviews with the Chief Executive.
Overall satisfaction as an occupier of our Our Investors buildings was rated as good or excellent by SEGRO places frequent and open communication 78 per cent of customers.
Over 80 per cent with the investment community among the of respondents believe that SEGRO provides highest of its priorities.
During 2011 we met with a consistently strong property management around 135 investors through a combination of service, and over 70 per cent expressed one-to-one meetings, conferences and roadshows satisfaction with the quality of our estate services.
in locations including the UK, US, Netherlands Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40 www.
com Performance Review Our Employees Valuing diversity Our team We believe that diversity is good for business We believe SEGRO people are amongst and aim to ensure that SEGRO provides equal the best in our industry.
We have a talented opportunities in how we recruit new employees and committed team of employees in the UK and develop and promote existing employees, and across Continental Europe.
Our aim is to regardless of age, gender or ethnicity.
We are continue to attract, develop and retain the best also committed to offering equal opportunities and brightest employees in the industry.
to people with disabilities and, if an employee becomes disabled whilst in our employment, Growing our own we will offer appropriate support, retraining, We are proud of our track record in spotting and equipment and facilities to enable them to nurturing talent.
In 2011 we lled three of the continue in their role with SEGRO.
most senior roles in the organisation through internal promotion our Chief Executive, We have a strong talent pipeline of women in Chief Operating officer and Chief Investment senior roles in SEGRO.
Our team reporting officer were all promoted from within.
directly to members of our key decision-making forum the Executive Committee is equally We are also keen to attract people from balanced, with 50 per cent of women fullling different sector backgrounds to SEGRO and in key roles in the business.
2011 our new Finance Director joined us with experience gained from a variety of financial One team one voice and management roles across different types of We believe that regular two-way communication businesses to add to our diversity of thinking is essential for building meaningful employee and approach.
We communicate with employees through a variety When reviewing talent, we look across the of mediums including face-to-face briengs at entire business with the aim of spotting talent weekly and monthly meetings, a Friday notice early and growing our own successors for key board update and access to Group-wide intranet roles.
Our ambition is to make sure every and webinar sessions.
We have also run bi-annual individual has the opportunity to maximise employee surveys since 2004 and will be their potential and their careers with SEGRO.
undertaking our next independent, all-employee survey across the business during 2012.
Reshaping our portfolio and our structure Our ambition is to be the best owner-manager Employee age prole % and developer of industrial property in Europe.
11 Our review of strategy in 2011, led by the new Chief Executive, created a clear focus on 10 reshaping our property portfolio.
To support 09 the new business strategy, we reorganised our structure and teams to deliver the two 18-26 27-46 47-60 60 key pillars of our strategy Disciplined Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence.
We managed the change successfully, creating a number of new and expanded roles whilst at the same time minimising the number of redundancies.
Once again, we were able to promote successfully from within the business with all of the new roles created being lled by existing SEGRO employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Being the best Average number of hours training Our people want to be at the top of their per employee game to reach the highest standards and provide the best solutions and services for 14 hours our customers.
Training and development is therefore very important to us.
11 14 10 10 In 2011, we invested more than 3,400 hours in training a 25 per cent increase on the prior 09 11 year.
In addition to our general management training and vocational education, we offer specialised development and networking SAFETY opportunities for our senior managers.
Safety is a top priority at each of our development sites and in our buildings.
We are a member of the Henley Partnership, We work hard to ensure that we meet and, run by Henley Business School, which offers where possible, exceed minimum health and a range of thought leadership events focusing safety requirements in all of the countries in on current issues relevant to business, which we operate.
We carry out rigorous team-building and leadership skills.
In 2011, audits of any accidents that occur on our 26 employees from across the business attended sites in order that we can prevent future partnership sessions with other business leaders accidents from happening wherever possible.
In 2011, we reviewed our Company policy and Other employees attended a three-day guidance in connection with driving for work.
programme designed for present and future All employees who are identied as potentially leaders of real estate organisations covering having a requirement to drive for work now issues such as sustainability, strategy and risk complete basic online driver awareness training.
This programme is run by the Drivers completing the online training are Reading Real Estate Foundation, to which then categorised as low, medium or high-risk, we provided funding for research during according to their role and driving needs.
the year and are actively involved on the Based on these risk-assessed ratings, we plan committee.
Several employees also attended an to deliver further training with accredited Advanced Leadership Programme at Craneld trainers through a combination of classroom Business School during the course of 2011. and in-car sessions during 2012.
We met our targets to maintain a zero fatality rate and to implement assessment and training requirements for the Group Driving for Work Policy in 2011.
This year we will continue to strive to meet our principal targets, which are as follows: t To maintain a zero fatality rate throughout Group operations: t To ensure no health and safety prosecutions or enforcement action throughout Group operations: and t To prepare a new One SEGRO health and safety strategy that will embed health and safety within all decision-making processes throughout the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42 www.
com Performance Review Accident frequency rate ACCESSIBILITY Accessibility is a key consideration for each of our sites.
We work with our customers, local 0.35 authorities and transport providers to ensure Reportable incidents per 200,000 hours worked that our estates have travel plans and can be 11 0.35 reached in an  manner.
11 Nil We now have Green Travel Plans in place 10 0.34 at five of our larger estates, compared with 10 0.34 three estates in the prior year.
These estates in the UK are Slough Trading Estate, 09 0.60 IQ Winnersh, Heywood Distribution Park and 09 0.15 IQ Farnborough and, in Continental Europe, Vimercate in Italy.
We have also implemented Accident Frequency Rate: Group-wide employees initiatives such as the launch of a car-sharing Accident Frequency Rate: UK-only contractor scheme for employees at Winnersh and, wherever possible, we encourage cycling to FLEXIBILITY work by incorporating bike racks into the We design and construct our industrial design of our buildings.
buildings so that they can be easily adaptable for multiple uses and are, therefore, attractive COMPLIANCE WITH EPRA to a wide variety of businesses.
This benets SUSTAINABILITY BPRS our customers because we have the exibility SEGRO is a member of the EPRA Sustainability to meet their individual requirements.
It also Reporting Committee and has worked with the benets local authorities and communities European publicly-listed real estate sector to lay in the areas in which we operate by giving out a set of recommendations for standardised them a competitive advantage in attracting reporting on key environmental impacts across and retaining investment and safeguarding the industry.
In our full 2011 Sustainability and creating new jobs.
Report which is available at www.
com, we demonstrate how we have applied the guidelines to our reporting.
It is not yet feasible for SEGRO to achieve full compliance with all of the overarching recommendations and indicators in this first year of using the guidelines.
However, we support the move towards integrated reporting and have set ourselves a trajectory in future years to align our reporting to the EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations in both our Annual Report and Accounts and Sustainability Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 www.
