SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility includes the Groups relations with Implementing our policy stakeholders and activities in the local community and is the We invest in and refurbish existing buildings which is in line overall responsibility of the Chief Executive.
with the Governments policy for maximising the re-use of existing Our remuneration policy is closely aligned with our corporate land and buildings.
Significant regulatory emphasis is placed responsibility strategy.
There are specific Group objectives to on carbon emissions of buildings throughout their operational achieve corporate responsibility targets which are reflected in lifetime, with emphasis on improvements in the Building the level of executive remuneration.
Regulations, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and BREEAM Code for Sustainable Homes.
The Group supports and We have been a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index since 2004, implements these requirements wherever practical.
Recent which is designed to measure the performance of companies that studies have highlighted the importance of embodied energy meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
contained within the fabric of existing buildings, recognising This year we were one of the leaders in the real estate sector.
the overall environmental benefits of extending the useful lives We are a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and efficiency of existing buildings rather than demolition and and are listed in the Kempen SNS Smaller European Index, the redevelopment.
first sustainable index for smaller European companies.
We are a regional leader for environmental management in the Refurbishment projects Global Real Estate Benchmark GREB survey.
Almost all of the Groups buildings are within Conservation Areas Sustainability and many are listed.
Within these constraints, the Group seeks to refurbish buildings in a sympathetic manner reusing existing The essence of our sustainability strategy is to reuse old timber and original building fixtures and fittings where possible.
buildings to extend their useful life and in doing so preserve and enhance the heritage of Londons West End where all our The Group is not a significant user of new timber and its designers buildings are located.
The average age of our buildings is over and contractors are encouraged to reuse as much as possible 150 years.
When unmodernised properties need refurbishing or during refurbishment work.
When installing new fixtures and when we acquire buildings, we reconfigure and upgrade them plant, consideration is given to environmental sustainability as within the constraints of current regulations governing listed well as building regulations.
For the small amount of timber that buildings and Conservation Areas.
Our aim is to extend the is purchased, the aim is to source sustainably sourced products, economic life and create a positive return on our investment particularly those certified to the Forestry Stewardship Commission over the long term.
or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes.
Our corporate responsibility policies, which are updated Through its contractor management procedures, including annually, are available on our website.
The full report on checklists and supporting information, the Group requires our corporate responsibility performance for the year ended project managers to dispose of waste appropriately, to segregate 30 September 2011 is also available on our website together and recycle where possible and to collate information on waste with the action plan for the year to 30 September 2012. quantities produced.
Owing to the wide variety of projects, the extent of the work undertaken at each site, and the absence of Environmental policy any industry benchmarks for construction waste, it is not Our policy is to minimise any adverse environmental impact of considered meaningful to present absolute waste data.
However, our business and operate in a sustainable manner.
In order to the process encourages site managers and contractors to adopt achieve this we have set the following overall environmental responsible waste practices and provides the Group with details objectives: of waste quantities attributable to its activities.
A sample of two sites were audited for good practice against duty of care for waste Operate in an environmentally sustainable manner management and were confirmed to be operating satisfactorily.
throughout our activities: Address the implications of our activities on climate change by Day-to-day management reducing energy use throughout our portfolio and also improving In the day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio, drainage to better address localised flooding issues: energy consumption and waste management are the key Minimise any adverse impacts on the environment across environmental issues.
our operations: Comply with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements The Group continues to monitor energy consumption in the and where feasible to go beyond compliance: common parts of its portfolio where it has direct responsibility.
Encourage continual improvement of our environmental The use of energy within the portfolio is the responsibility of performance: tenants, with the exception of certain common areas such as Provide a framework for establishing specific objectives and stairwell lights and shared facilities.
Generally use is restricted targets: to lighting so the environmental impact is small.
Promote environmental awareness among staff and principal suppliers and provide appropriate training where necessary: Work proactively with other organisations to promote sustainability within the portfolio and our local areas: and Engage with our stakeholders including shareholders to ensure that we are responsive to their expectations.
37 37 BoLonGARo TReVoR LASh PeRfecT LASh BAR ALL SAinTS ATeLieR MiLLineRy ecATwALk LAMBReTTA LeonGS LeGend ii TRiSTAn BATeS TheATRe deSA new woRLd chineSe ReSTAuRAnTS BiddLe SAwyeR SiLkS STyLe ShowRooM uncondiTionAL SukA AuRoRA wiLLiAM & GeoRGe cAfe TPT MeSTizo PoP BouTiQue GoLA cLASSicS RePLAy deTRoiT SocceRScene cAnTinA LARedo c&R cAfe ReSTAuRAnT VoLcoM hiLfiGeR deniM RefecToRy BuReAu SAkS wALk in BAck-RuB J JAMieS iT AMieS iTALiAn ALiAn Marilyn Monroe The MARQuiS 38 38 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate responsibility Impact on the environment Community engagement The level of carbon emissions produced by our portfolio over the Our strategy is clear and focussed on Londons West End.
past five years is set out in the chart below.
Overall, our impact Our long term prosperity depends on the success of London as a on the environment is minimal as these carbon emissions destination for domestic and overseas visitors to the museums, generally are confined to activities in the common parts of the galleries and leisure activities in and around the West End.
As a result, our level of energy consumption is below We are very clear that our engagement is aligned with the the threshold for inclusion in the Governments Carbon areas in which our villages are situated and benefits London Reduction Scheme.
both as a community and tourist destination.
We work closely with a number of organisations based in the West End with local and leisure connections and in some cases help them to be TCO2 located in the areas in which they operate.
1600 1400 We have adopted the London Benchmarking Group methodology 1200 for measuring our community contributions.
For the year ended 1000 800 30 September 2011 our contribution was 356,000.
In addition to 600 this we have voluntarily contributed to works in the public realm 400 200 in excess of 700,000.
0 Our community engagement currently focuses on the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 following areas: Sustainable Restaurant Association SRA The data excludes the emissions for the joint venture at We have worked during the year to promote this not-for-profit St Martins Courtyard which totalled 426.4 tonnes of CO2 membership association.
It provides restaurants with advice and will be reported separately in the future.
However, and support to help them to understand fully sustainability absolute consumption throughout the portfolio remains low.
issues and provide solutions and opportunities for their For the current year, we have an objective to change to businesses.
suppliers of green electricity upon contract renewal if such We have encouraged our tenants to join the Association and supplies are available and at a comparative cost to other offered as a trial, the first years membership paid for by the supplies.
In Soho, the electricity supplier to a number of the Group to a number of restaurants.
Take-up has been excellent Groups properties continued to be a company which provides and our tenants and the Association are working on a number green electricity generated from sustainable sources.
We will of initiatives together.
We are looking at ways of extending this continue to supply green electricity to properties in Soho during work during 2012. the current year and include Chinatown during 2012.
Working with the creative arts Staff As our portfolio is located entirely within the West End, the promotion of the arts, theatre and leisure aspects of the West End Shaftesbury employs nineteen staff including executive are important to our continuing business.
Every member of staff is important and their with arts organisations, theatres and galleries to promote the experience and contribution to the business play a key part in creative arts.
the delivery of our strategy.
Provision of space for charitable, community and educational Training and development of our staff is essential and purposes professional staff are encouraged to meet the requirements We also provide space on very flexible terms to enable of their professional bodies.
Non-professional staff are also charitable, community and educational events to take place encouraged to undertake training.
Training is monitored during the year.
We provide subsidised accommodation for a and recorded.
All staff undergo an annual personal number of these organisations including the Association of development review.
British Orchestras, Make Justice Work, Stage One, National Our employment policies have been reviewed and updated Campaign for the Arts, Yellow Earth Theatre Company, London during the year to reflect changes in legislation.
No staff left Chinatown Association and Chinatown Arts Space.
the Company during the year.
Working with local authorities We work closely with Westminster City Council and Camden Health and safety Council within whose jurisdictions our properties are located The Board has overall responsibility for health and safety.
Health to improve the public realm in and around our villages through and safety is identified within all pre-tender documentation in contributions to street improvements, pedestrianisation and street our refurbishment schemes and is monitored by site and project lighting schemes.
Our managing agents oversee day-to-day health and safety matters throughout the portfolio.
There have been no reportable health and safety incidents during the year.
39 39 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate responsibility Key targets and progress in the year ended 30 September 2011 Set out below is a summary of progress against a number of key targets this year.
The full report is available on our website.
Objectives Progress and outcomes Engage with stakeholders.
Continued membership of FTSE4 Good, DJSI and GREB.
Continue to support local community groups and be Membership of the London Benchmarking Group and proactive in mentoring charitable and other organisations.
adoption of their methodology for reporting community involvement this year.
Operate in an environmentally sustainable manner In an initial trial, a selection of restaurant tenants have throughout our activities.
Of eight refurbishment schemes a minimum of 75% of facades were retained and 80% of the primary structure.
All buildings at St Martins Courtyard except for the retail shell at 7-13 Mercer Street achieved a Very Good BREEAM rating.
Of two schemes that had preand post-refurbishment EPC assessments, a listed building, improved by one grade from G to F. An unlisted building, improved from D to B, which although not the targeted 3 grades is nevertheless a good performance when building constraints are considered.
Monitor and where possible reduce energy consumption and Green electricity is purchased in Soho.
investigate opportunities for the use of renewable energy.
Continue to monitor the waste management strategy for 33% of tenants waste in Carnaby and Seven Dials was Carnaby and Seven Dials in order to encourage recycling recycled and of the remaining waste 86% was diverted by tenants and divert a minimum of 80% waste from landfill.
from landfill to an energy from waste facility.
Inclusion of bird boxes at sites in Soho, a green roof at Carnaby Street and provision of space for beehives at St Martins Courtyard.
Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a specified capital 100% of schemes achieved the target score on the first visit.
value are registered with the considerate constructors scheme The overall average for the sites visited was 80%.
and continue to achieve 65% above a satisfactory score.
40 40 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate responsibility Objectives and targets for year ending 30 September 2012 Set out below is an extract of the key objectives and targets for the year ahead.
A full list of objectives is contained within the 2011-2012 Action Plan which is available on the Groups website.
Objectives Targets Engage with stakeholders.
Continue to engage with investors and key benchmarking agencies as appropriate and maintain membership in the FTSE4 Good, DJSI and GREB or equivalent indices.
Report in accordance with GRI.
Continue to support local community groups and be Ongoing financial support to key charities and community proactive in mentoring charitable and other organisations.
Continue membership of London Benchmarking Group and further develop benchmarking measurements for reporting.
Engage with selected commercial tenants their approach to Engage and raise corporate responsibility awareness and sustainability.
Develop sustainability advice specifically for engagement with tenants.
Provide membership of the Sustainable Restaurant Association for all new restaurant tenants and extend within existing tenant base.
Monitor and where possible reduce energy consumption and Purchase green electricity where available and where costs investigate opportunities for the use of renewable energy.
are within 5% of brown electricity.
Aim for common parts consumption not to exceed 100 kg 2 C02 m. Monitor and reduce waste from our managed properties.
Divert from landfill 80% of tenant generated waste at Carnaby, Seven Dials and Longmartin.
Operate in an environmentally sustainable manner Follow BREEAM criteria for reuse of structure and facade in throughout our activities.
100% of refurbishment ie a minimum of 50% of the facade and 80% of the primary structure reused.
Aim for BREEAM Very Good where appropriate.
Extend the useful life of buildings and improve their sustainability by raising the EPC rating of properties through refurbishment.
Ensure that at least 80% water based paints are used to minimise air pollution.
Timber to be sourced where possible from well managed Continue to maximise proportion of timber that is reused.
sources certified by third party certification bodies.
Source at least 50% of all timber from certified sources and ensure all timber is legal.
Improve biodiversity appropriate to the Groups urban Design and install where feasible features to encourage location.
Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a specified capital Continue to achieve 65% above a satisfactory score.
value are registered in the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
The Group is measured against its objectives and targets and independently assessed by RPS Group plc.
Brian Bickell Chief Executive 30 November 2011 41 41
