a real taste of Yorkshire Great food, handmade in Yorkshire to produce mouthwatering sausage rolls and pastries, handcrafted by Gill Ridgard, the Yorkshire Baker.
Utilising all butter puff pastry filled with prime cuts of fresh meat, fresh herbs and vegetables.
Good wholesome Yorkshire cooking, baked to perfection.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 41 42 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc corporate social responsibility statement Cranswick takes its ethical responsibilities to employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, producers and the environment very seriously.
The Company recognises that a balanced and committed approach to all aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR will bring benefits to each of the Company stakeholders and will strengthen its business position and credentials to facilitate future sustainable growth and development.
These are supported at every site by a People dedicated Site Co-ordinator, to monitor, manage and improve Health & Safety performance in a pro-active fashion.
All these individuals are trained The Company is committed to the highest standards of responsible to NEBOSHH National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and behaviour, dignity and integrity in its relationships with fellow employees, Health standards.
customers, business partners and authorities and in so doing endorse the principals of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI.
Monthly accident statistics are reported and monitored using the Companys insurers web based recording system which has been expanded this year The Company will respect the rights and dignity of every employee and to provide full Health & Safety management, including risk assessments, treat them fairly and without discrimination regardless of their employment claims management and audits.
A tracker is included which prompts the status and in line with the Groups Equal Opportunities policies.
introduction of appropriate control measures to reduce the likelihood of recurrence.
Quarterly reports are made to the Board detailing accident and The Company recognises that the people that are employed either on a claims statistics and trends.
The figures are compiled monthly and reported temporary or permanent basis are the biggest asset to the Group.
The on for the 2010 calendar year for the purpose of this report.
Company will therefore strive to ensure that the standards detailed above are implemented throughout the business and at all levels.
All sites carry out accident investigations using the web based system allowing easy visibility and monitoring.
Compared to the previous year: The Company believes in team working and the sharing of knowledge The total number of recorded accidents in the Group was 14 per throughout the organisation, communication is key to the development cent lower.
and progression of the business.
The Accident Incident Ratio accident against number of employees reduced by 19 per cent.
To every extent possible work performed on behalf of the Company shall be The total number of RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and based on a recognised employment relationship established in accordance Dangerous Occurrences Regulations accidents was 23 per cent with national law and recognised business practice.
The Accident Incident Ratio RIDDORs against number of employees Cranswick is committed to high Health & Safety standards which are was 27 per cent lower.
endorsed by the Board of Directors.
It is committed to yearly improvements and to work in partnership with staff and insurers to improve safety These reductions can be attributed to improved working environments, standards through training and effective management.
investment in training and effective site Health & Safety team management.
The team is led by the Group Health & Safety Manager, with the assistance Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 43 throughout the Group and demonstrate the Directors commitment to increasing high standards of Safety.
Cranswick plc Accident Statistics 2,400 The Group companies each have their own strategies for the recruitment and 2,200 training of staff, including the provision of competitive terms and conditions 2,000 within a challenging and stimulating working environment.
Over the last 1,800 year a working forum has been established to look at CSR across the Group 1,600 to facilitate the recognition of best practice and shared learning leading to the development of a Group Corporate Responsibility Policy which clearly 1,400 defines Cranswicks core values and aspirations.
A Group Policy on Equal 1,200 Opportunities confirms the Companys commitment to being an employer 1,000 that will take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote employees 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 on the basis of their experience, abilities and qualifications without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, sex, sexual orientation, Reported statistics this year include the Norfolk site for the first time.
marital status, age or disability.
The Company will ensure that all of its This was acquired in 2009, and the peak in the figures above reflects the employees are treated with respect and dignity, and that harassment, in additional accident numbers attributed to this large site.
The subsequent any form, will not be condoned.
reduction shown in the 2010 figures reflects the benefit of the Cranswick standards introduced to the site and levels are falling to those reported By the end of 2011 all Group companies will have undertaken an ethical for the Group before the acquisition.
Accident levels have fallen across audit carried out by an independent third party service provider.
Those sites the Group reflecting the reduction in incident levels, particularly those of which have already gone through this process have demonstrated a high reportable accidents under RIDDOR.
level of compliance with the ETI base code, where non-conformance has been highlighted these issues have been addressed.
The Company has also Total reportable accidents, at 1,645 per 100,000 employees a Health & implemented its own programme of internal ethical audits so that it can Safety Executive standard measure are above the average for the Food proactively deal with any non-conformance that may arise.
and Drinks Industry 1,404 in 2010 reflecting the additional cut hazards inherent in butchery operations.
All labour supplying agencies are audited before use and re-audited on a scheduled basis to assess ongoing compliance with the Gangmasters The Company is committed to accredit all operating sites to meet the British Licensing Act 2004, and details of the Companies ethical standards Standard 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems and are communicated to its stakeholders via SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data in year two of the three year project, this is progressing to plan, with five of Exchange, a facility designed to link the full supply chain in an open and the nine sites accredited to date.
Yearly internal Health & Safety audits are transparent manner.
The Company is actively reviewing Group companies carried out to measure the standards at each site and to produce an action terms and conditions of employment to ensure that they are fully compliant plan for the following 12 months.
All sites have continued to improve their with the Agency Workers Directive which comes onto the statute book in audit percentage score in 2010 from the previous year.
The Groups insurers October 2011. carry out annual external Health & Safety audits in which Cranswick has achieved results comparable to the industry leaders.
Impact on the Environment Training is provided to all full time employees and any temporary or agency In 2008 the Group committed to a programme of steps to reduce its workers.
All undertake a full Health & Safety induction course, together relative carbon footprint by 20 per cent by the end of the 2011 financial with training in Manual Handling, Fire and First Aid regulations.
The Group Carbon footprint envelope includes all factory activities Company provides in-house courses including Accident Investigation, Risk energy, f-gas, travel and waste and all Group owned transport activities.
Assessment, and Manual Handling and source other training requirements Statistics are collated monthly and the footprint calculated using Carbon externally.
Staff training has been enhanced by the commissioning and Trust software, reported at the half and full calendar year to the Board.
production of a Cranswick Health & Safety DVD.
This has been a major project, but it will benefit the pro-active approach to Health & Safety 44 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc RIDDOR accidents per 100,000 employees Improved production efficiencies, better plant utilisation and energy Waste to landfill has also started to reduce over the period.
The ratio of management have all contributed to meeting this target the reduction landfill tonnage compared to production volume has fallen by 37 per cent from 0.4 tonnes CO2e per tonne of production in 2008 to 0.32 last year is despite production volumes increasing by over 40 per cent.
recycling, waste to energy and anaerobic digestion have all contributed to this with cardboard recycling up by 85 per cent over the three years to 1,520 tonnes, and plastic recycling from virtually nil in 2008 to 150 tonnes Cranswick Carbon Footprint this year.
Contamination with meat waste is a barrier to increasing these figures, but alternatives are being sought.
0.450 0.400 Cranswick Annual Landfill Volume 0.350 6,800 6,700 0.300 6,600 6,500 0.250 6,400 6,300 0.200 6,200 2008 2009 2010 6,100 6,000 2008 2009 2010 Energy contributes significantly to the overall carbon footprint, and whilst overall usage has increased with the size of the business, the energy used per tonne of production has fallen by 19 per cent on the 2008 base year.
Water usage continues to be monitored and reported under the FHC2020 Options to improve this performance are being actively investigated, with agreement.
Along with energy use and carbon footprint, this will become potential for the use of Combined Heat and Power CHP on several of the an operational KPI as the Group enters the next phase of its environmental larger sites.
The Group is registered for the Carbon Reduction Commitment commitment.
Process water usage per tonne of production has fallen by CRC, but since all the bigger sites operate under Climate Control around 10 per cent over the last three years.
Agreements, the impact of the CRC will be confined to an additional bureaucratic burden.
Reduction in the Groups energy footprint is a Customer focus on the environment and sustainability has grown and commercial necessity as well as an environmental one.
the Groups environmental aspirations are being realigned to meet the common goals which it shares with them.
The environmental section Greenthinking of the Group website www.
co. uk, will be Cranswick Energy Use Per Tonne updated to reflect these targets and report on them.
650 600 The Group continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and 550 the Forest Footprint Project.
500 450 Products and Raw Materials 400 350 Cranswick is committed to ensuring that the raw materials used meat, 300 ingredients and packaging are traceable to source and where raw 2008 2009 2010 materials are identity preserved: the supplier will be challenged to prove their traceability systems to the Companys satisfaction.
The approval of raw material suppliers is centrally controlled and involves independent third party audit or approval by the Group Technical Services team.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 45 kWh per tonne Tonnes CO2e per tonne produced Tonnes per year Cranswicks development has been focussed on the British pig market suppliers, but it does agree individual payment terms appropriate to their and the Group has always been a staunch supporter of British farming.
market sector and makes every endeavour to meet those agreements.
Sites The acquisition of CCF Norfolk strengthened the Companys position in are separately managed and encouraged to source locally where it serves the British pig market.
Producer groups and development initiatives with the Companys best interests.
retailers, farmers and agricultural colleges are all aimed at improving the business relationships throughout the pig production chain to bolster the Customers and Consumers market against increasing worldwide competition.
The bulk of the Groups contracted pigs are sourced from within Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and East Cranswick is committed to a policy of working with its retail customers Anglia which are recognised as being some of the best pig breeding areas in to ensure clear informative labelling of product so that consumers can the UK.
Proximity to the Groups two abattoirs is important in good animal make an informed purchase decision based on the origin, authenticity, welfare and the reduction of food miles 39 per cent of the supplying provenance and nutritional values of the foods the Group produces.
farms lie within 25 miles of Cranswicks pork processing units in Hull and Norfolk, and 77 per cent within 50 miles.
All hauliers are members of Food safety will always be of paramount importance and well qualified and independently audited and certified welfare assurance schemes.
experienced technical teams are in place at site level which are centrally co-ordinated across the Group to share best practice and ensure that all Suppliers and Producers products and processes meet the increasing demands of customers.
The Company believes that integrity and trust in its dealings with suppliers As a food company Cranswick recognises its responsibilities to create and producers is essential in building long term supply relationships which and produce products which are safe, legal and wholesome.
The food will ultimately benefit its products, and will always articulate expectations production sites are of modern design and well invested and operate to a and requirements prior to supply.
high standard of food safety, process control, hygiene and housekeeping.
All the sites are independently audited annually against the British Retail Cranswick will work with its business partners to establish and maintain Consortium BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and have just achieved social and environmental compliance standards throughout the supply chain.
the 50th consecutive Grade A compliance against this exacting standard The Group does not have a formal policy with regard to payment of which is recognised as a performance benchmark for the industry.
The 46 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc
