Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainability It is no longer enough to strive to what we see as the most significant Chief Executives be successful in traditional financial sustainability issues we are facing statement terms: businesses today have to realise today.
In the pages that follow, and in more Corporate social responsibility CSR detail in our separate Sustainability What is Sustainability?
recognises the positive contribution Report, we want to shed some light business makes to society and also the light on these issues and how we are For Croda its simple doing detrimental impact a business can have working hard to address them: by business sustainably means if it does not operate responsibly.
acting now and by setting meaningful doing business the right As a chemicals manufacturer, the targets for future action.
I am potential impact of not operating particularly pleased that we are able way.
As an employer to report a reduction in the Groups lost The right way by our and neighbour, the consequences of time injury rate in 2011, as well as people, the environment, irresponsible behaviour would be far further reductions in energy use and reaching.
As a sustainable, successful waste to landfill.
Equally pleasing is the communities we work business, we have to recognise this the continued success of our employee within and those responsibility and look for continuous volunteering programme, the 1% Club.
improvement not only in economic In 2011, more than twice as many terms, but also in our social and employees were involved in some form environmental performance.
of local voluntary project compared to 2010, investing a total of over 4,600 We have found it a real challenge as hours of work time.
a business to define in detail what we mean by sustainability.
One definition We also recognise that to continue that struck a particular chord came from being successful in our sustainability the Brundtland Report, commissioned journey, we have to establish a by the United Nations: Sustainable pragmatic way of getting things done.
development is development that We have made great strides this year meets the needs of the present without with the creation of a dedicated incompromising the ability of future house Corporate Social Responsibilty 1 generations to meet their own needs.
department, responsible for informing We feel that through our emphasis on and guiding our sustainability strategy, emerging markets and technologies, we whilst at the same time ensuring we are making our own small contribution, have sensible and effective structures going beyond not compromising and in place to enable communication actually enhancing the capabilities of and information sharing with all future generations.
stakeholders, inside and outside the Group.
Equally challenging is a way of ensuring that all of our aspirations, worthy as We believe that our business model they are, are underpinned by real puts us at the very forefront of tangible targets.
These targets that can sustainable business: that said, the help ensure our day to day behaviour last thing we will be is complacent.
is supportive of longer term goals, and As our business continues to develop can illustrate and help to communicate new technologies and forge new what sustainability really means to us partnerships in emerging markets, at Croda.
sustainability will continue to be central to our thinking.
Hence the need to identify the real sustainability issues facing our business today.
We have worked hard in 2011 to identify the key issues we must address if we want to be a truly sustainable business.
This hard work has been led by our Group Executive Committee with our CSR Steering Committee, reflecting the top level commitment within our organisation.
The results of this work are best illustrated by our materiality matrix on page 13.
The matrix was one of the outputs of our first Sustainability 1 United Nations, 1987, Report of the World Commission on Strategy Day, held in July 2011, and is Steve Foots Environment and Development, General Assembly Resolution a simple graphical representation of Group Chief Executive 42 187, 11 December 1987 12 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information we operate.
This must embrace the matrix was mapped to illustrate the Material Issues areas that are of most significance to relative materiality of the issues Our underlying approach to our business and those that are of most identified, plotting business impact sustainability has focused on importance to our stakeholders.
Since establishing clear commitments and this meeting, all of these issues have To identify our most material issues, performance targets aligned to our been embedded into our sustainability the CSR Chair, CSR Manager and Pillar material issues.
Owners met with the Group Executive By material issues we mean topics Committee in July 2011 for an in depth or issues with the potential to affect Sustainability Strategy Day to discuss the long term success of our business the major issues to our business and the sustainability of the economy, and key stakeholders.
A materiality environment and communities in which Crodas Materiality Matrix High 3 1 1 2 1 1 3 2 2 2 3 3 1 2 1 4 2 Diagram 5 Low High Impact & risk to Croda Section Material issue Section Material issue Employees Environment Air quality & climate 1 Recruitment & retention 1 change 2 Compensation & benefits Water quality & supply 2 3 HR policies & systems Landfill waste 3 Talent management & 4 employee development Health & Process safety 1 safety management Performance 5 management Occupational health & Corporate stakeholder 2 Corporate 1 safety engagement stakeholders Responsible 2 Ethical supply chain Renewable raw 1 sourcing materials Community Community 1 communication Responsible Palm Oil 2 sourcing Community involvement 2 Product data 3 gathering 3 Community education 13 Importance to stakeholders Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainability To enable the Group to take meaningful action against each of the material issues identified, it is important that we are able to define each issue and explain why it is material in terms that are clear to our stakeholders, both internal and external.
In the following tables, we seek to do just that.
Environment Air quality & climate change 1 The link between emissions of combustion products such as CO and climate change is now well established.
It is therefore essential that 2 as a socially responsible company we reduce the impact of our emissions to a sustainable level.
The expectation of all our stakeholders is that we continue to make progress in reducing discharges of climate change gases.
Water quality & supply 2 Fresh water is becoming increasingly scarce as population and industrial activity increases.
Furthermore, the onset of climate change may influence rainfall patterns such that water resources in some parts of the world become increasingly stressed.
Left unmanaged, supplies would eventually run out.
Whilst our operations are not in regions where water resources are under immediate threat, many of our manufacturing sites and offices operate in communities that are dependent on a shared natural fresh water resource.
We therefore have a public responsibility and a business need to have a strategy for water management to ensure the sustainability of our operation.
Landfill waste 3 Like other resources, land is becoming increasingly stressed.
Productive land has been consumed by development and subsequently contaminated, so less space is available to grow food.
One of the most environmentally unfriendly activities is landfill, which modifies the land permanently and incidentally introduces contamination to air as well as to water.
Whilst our activities do not have a direct impact on the land we occupy, we have a responsibility to minimise our landfill waste and ultimately look to eliminate this activity from our business.
Health & safety Process safety management 1 Process safety encompasses the most significant hazards associated with our operations.
The consequences of poor process safety are well documented on a multitude of historical industrial disasters, for example Union Carbide in Bhopal and BP in Texas City, which not only led to many fatalities, but also significant harm to the environment and lasting material damage to the companies involved and their reputations.
The moral obligation alone that every company has in this area is indisputable and one that we have always committed significant time and resource to managing.
Occupational health & safety 2 No one should expect to be injured when they work at any of our manufacturing sites or offices.
In addition to this moral obligation, the cost to the business of an unsafe workplace can be enormous in terms of fines, compensation for injury, loss of production and loss of reputation.
High workplace injury rates are often symptomatic of poor general management practices and they do not signal a sustainable business.
Responsible sourcing Renewable raw materials 1 The developing world is increasing its reliance on oil and other non-renewable material sources: it is clear that these resources are being depleted and the environment cannot support current production levels in the future.
To ensure that we can continue to make the products that our customers require, we are committed to developing and manufacturing high performance products from renewable raw materials wherever reasonably practicable.
Responsible Palm Oil sourcing 2 As the demand for Palm Oil PO and Palm Kernel Oil PKO continues to grow, primarily for inclusion in food, it becomes ever more important that it is sourced sustainably.
Whilst we use extremely small volumes of the actual PO, a number of our products do include derivatives that are a result of processing the oil for food markets.
The supply chain of derivatives is very complex due to the number of different producers involved.
However, through our involvement with the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO we are determined to do what we can to bring about change to secure a sustainable supply of derivatives.
Product data gathering 3 In order to ensure that we can continue to manufacture our products and to look for opportunities to enhance their environmental profile, it is very important to the Company and its stakeholders that we have an extensive amount of data to hand on the products we make.
This data goes beyond what is required for regulatory purposes, to build a detailed picture of the sourcing of each raw material used to make our products and the impact those products have on the environment from origin to final use.
Employees Recruitment & retention 1 Like all successful businesses, we recognise that our future depends on our ability to attract and retain individuals who are passionate about personal and business growth and want to make a significant contribution to the future of our business.
Recruiting individuals that fit this description and the culture of the business is always hard, but within the chemical industry it is increasingly a problem with a high level of competition for a decreasing number of graduates.
As our business is focused on innovation and growth in emerging markets and developing countries, this challenge increases further.
14 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Employees Compensation & benefits 2 In a competitive recruitment marketplace we are conscious that we should not lose critical staff because of issues relating to pay or additional benefits.
We realise that the remuneration package we offer plays a key part in attracting and retaining employees.
HR policies & systems 3 Information and knowledge sharing are at the heart of making better business decisions.
Streamlined systems and policies not only provide the data and trends on which to base decisions, but will in turn drive employee engagement.
We believe that well defined policies and procedures allow our employees to operate without constant management intervention.
It is this autonomy and freedom to act that has made our business what it is today.
Talent management & employee development 4 The key to the future success of any business lies in the skills and abilities of its workforce.
It is only through the continual development of our workforce that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service.
Being a business dependent upon a large number of specialists including engineers and scientists as well as finance, IT, HR, marketing, purchasing, sales, regulatory and legal professionals we have to place great focus on continuous development.
Performance management 5 A strong, efficient performance management culture is not only important to employees professional development, but also to meet the Companys objectives and so ultimately contributing to its bottom line.
In addition, a clear, robust process will lead to enhanced communications and an opportunity to address performance problems effectively, thus delivering improvements in employee morale.
Corporate stakeholders Corporate stakeholder engagement 1 For any company to be successful it cannot work in isolation: it must consider and take necessary action to meet the needs and expectations of its stakeholders.
Our key corporate stakeholders are our customers, investors, suppliers and Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs.
We have always been committed to working with these stakeholder groups and have long standing relationships with them as we understand their importance to our success.
We now want to deepen our understanding of these groups, particularly in relation to their key sustainability issues, as what will affect them will also have an impact on us.
Ethical supply chain 2 It is the responsibility of all companies to act ethically, but standards can differ from one business to the next.
At Croda, we apply the same high ethical and sustainability standards across all operations.
Our suppliers are a critical part of our business and we believe that they should operate to the same standards as we do.
With increasing consumer awareness and customer demands in this area, we have to work even more closely with all suppliers.
Community Community communication 1 Operating ethically means being aware of the impact a business has and acting responsibly within the communities in which it is located and where its employees live.
This can only be achieved through open dialogue with the community.
The relationship we have with our local communities is extremely important to us.
We take pride in ensuring that we keep our neighbours informed of activities that are planned to take place at our manufacturing sites and other key locations where health and safety is of paramount importance.
As our business grows, it is vital that we develop and maintain a supportive external environment, as well as a strong brand and reputation.
This will continue to reinforce our Company culture, which has community awareness and activity at its heart.
Community involvement 2 Putting talk into action is the true way of demonstrating a companys commitment to their communities.
Our Company culture is such that we have the capability to be both proactive and reactive to community needs and we have the motivation to make a positive impact in the communities in which we operate.
The morale of our employees is enhanced by the goodwill that is created through community involvement.
It is also very important to our business that we use this activity as an opportunity for personal and team development.
Community education 3 For any business operating in very specialist markets it is essential to raise awareness of the opportunities it offers and the skills it needs by educating future generations.
Our rich scientific heritage and our strategic reliance on delivering market led innovation mean we must ensure that we play our part in developing scientists, technologists and engineers.
By developing a strong external educational platform to engage with potential employees in these areas, we will also enhance our image and reputation, thus helping us to recruit appropriately educated people who will support our future technical activities.
We continue to evaluate these issues carefully to ensure they remain the Groups most material sustainability issues.
As outlined in the Chief Executives statement on page 12, identifying and succinctly defining the issues is only the first step.
Performance targets supported by a robust management approach then need to be established for each material issue, followed up with ongoing monitoring and regular reporting of performance.
In the sections that follow, we discuss some of the material issues from each of the key areas in a little more detail to illustrate the work we have been doing on establishing targets, monitoring and reporting performance and thereby making a tangible difference, both inside and outside the business.
15 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainability Some progress was made towards our Air Quality & Climate Change target of 25% energy from non-fossil Strategy sources, up from 13.3% to 14.5% by At Croda, we have now carefully the end of 2011.
However, projects are measured emissions of gases in hand to make significant progress implicated in climate change for more towards this target in the next two than 15 years and have consistently years.
Increasingly demanding targets have been set for Total energy usage for continuing operations by year 2015 by our Group Executive Committee 6,000 under the guidance of the SHE Steering 5,000 Committee.
To ensure actions can be The installation of in line drying 4,000 taken to bring about change, all major vessels at our Rawcliffe Bridge SHE targets are set over a five year time 3,000 manufacturing site in the UK is period.
A strategy for further significant part of ongoing capital investment, 2,000 change beyond 2015 is already in place.
improved management and 1,000 equipment optimisation that will It is the responsibility of all 0 significantly reduce VOC emissions.
manufacturing site directors to Over the past 10 years, the site has implement improvements in both 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 reduced emissions by 36%.
The plant and operational practices, latest investments will see a further which contribute to a reduction in the 20% reduction with additional novel VOC emissions fell by 8.8% from the amount of CO and other greenhouse 2 technology expected to deliver 2010 baseline to 280 tonnes.
Our Group Executive further improvements in the process control and a slight reduction Committee will continue to support coming years.
in production volumes both contributed this through the approval of relevant to this improvement.
The sustainability capital expenditure, which will also of the improvement will be checked in include activities at our offices where 2012. appropriate.
2011 Targets The Future 2011 Performance l Based on 2010, reduce total A pilot Site Energy Audit is planned In 2011, compared to our 2010 Group energy consumption by for 2012, paving the way for baseline year, energy consumption 5% by 2015. further detailed energy audits at all was reduced by 4.9%.
This was due to l To have 25% of the Groups manufacturing sites in line with our the implementation of a large number total energy requirements strategic approach.
of energy saving projects across the generated from non-fossil fuel Major projects on energy sourcing are Group.
An additional contributing factor sources by 2015. expected to start delivering an increase was a reduction in production volume l Based on 2010, reduce total in non-fossil sourced energy in 2012 during the year, so the challenge will Group VOC emissions by 10% and further process optimisation is be to maintain the reduction in energy by 2015. expected to deliver more reductions in consumption sustainably as production VOC emissions in the period up to 2015. volumes increase, to ensure that we reach our 2015 target.
Our North American operations have completed a number of projects in 2011 to reduce energy consumption.
Our Edison office launched their 305 kilowatt solar energy system in July 2011.
The first of its type at any of our operations, the system is expected to provide more than 50% of the power required to run the facility, which is approximately equivalent to powering 42 average sized homes, removing 47 cars from the road or saving over 100,000 litres of petrol each year.
Our Atlas Point manufacturing site installed LED lighting fixtures that use 50% less energy, whilst improving the quality of light for operators and reducing maintenance costs due to the LEDS 10 year lifespan.
16 Energy TJ Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information 2011 Performance Renewable Raw Materials 2011 Targets In 2011, 65% of the raw materials Strategy l In 2011, to use the ERP based used within all of the products we At Croda, we have a history of using system to record a baseline manufactured across the Group were renewable raw materials in our measurement of the number from renewable resources.
Although products wherever possible, with of new products developed this figure has decreased by 3% sustainability being embedded in our based solely on renewable compared to 2010, largely due to product innovations since we launched raw materials.
changes in product mix, it is still a high our very first product, lanolin.
l In 2011, to use the ERP based percentage for the chemicals industry system to record a baseline Our research scientists work with our and it sets us apart from our peers.
measurement of the total marketing teams to determine the In 2011, we monitored the percentage volume tonnes of products market opportunities early in the new of all new products launched based sold based solely on product screening and development solely on renewable raw materials and renewable raw materials.
phase: this includes consideration to found this figure to be 32%, whilst the origin of the raw material used the average percentage of renewable in terms of safety and environmental raw material content in all of the impact.
Underpinning this process is products we launched in 2011 was our adoption of the 12 Principles of higher at 58%.
It is also encouraging Green Chemistry, where our scientists to see that in Personal Care and ensure our products meet as many of Coatings & Polymers this figure is these principles as practically possible, significantly higher.
An example of a therefore ensuring that our products 100% renewable product launch in have the most minimal impact on 2011 is NatraGem S150 NP, a natural health and the environment.
The solubiliser for active ingredients.
challenge is meeting the demands The Future for green and safe products, whilst maintaining competitive product We shall remain committed to performance and functionality.
developing new products based on as high a proportion of renewable raw materials as possible and assess each new product according to the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry.
The speciality chemical industry is fast moving away from using Our French research and development depleting resources and energy and manufacturing operation, Sederma, intensive, environmentally took on the challenge of developing compromising processes.
The focus natural molecules for the cosmetic is on sustainable raw materials industry without causing any damage and greener, cleaner and safer to the environment using Plant Cell manufacturing methods.
This technology uses our heritage in naturally derived plant cells to produce a range of natural products, we are at the forefront of molecules with unique performance this evolution.
Culturing these cells has a number of benefits, but the most It was biotechnology that stood significant is the preservation of the out to us amongst the array of environment as the process can start approaches to achieving sustainable from a very small fragment of plant leaf product design.
It is a path offering or root.
The culturing of plant cells does many promising opportunities not require fertilisers, pesticides or land in the future, which is why we use and can be done any time of the have dramatically expanded our year.
In 2011, Sederma launched the investment in the research and first product using this new technology.
development and manufacture Resistem is an active cosmetic of these products at our Ditton ingredient that helps the skin to protect manufacturing site in the UK.
and regenerate itself to build its own In 2011, we published a Whitepaper anti-ageing defence system.
called Biotechnology and its role in Sustainable Design, which was a technical article describing this field of science and our desire to incorporate its capabilities into our core technologies.
17 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainability To support our developing regions Recruitment & Retention 2011 Targets of Latin America and Asia we are Strategy l All regions to complete an now taking the expertise we have in It is only through robust, effective and employee engagement survey graduate recruitment, selection and stringent recruitment processes that we by the end of 2011. development in our mature markets of l can ensure we have the best possible On a global basis, to maintain North America and Europe and utilising starting point from which to develop average voluntary turnover at it in these developing markets.
This the right leaders and specialists for the less than 10% in 2011. will ensure we maintain the quality l future of our business.
Every Croda manufacturing and supply of future leaders across our site to hold a minimum two Our internally developed and delivered business.
employee communications leadership and succession processes sessions in 2011. can only be effective if the raw talent is there to start with across all functions.
Through our global competency framework we can ensure recruitment practices across the Group identify the people with the right skills, knowledge and aptitude, but more importantly During 2011 our Latin American the behaviours and attitudes that will division introduced health make them, and in turn our business, a assessments for all employees success.
regardless of service or position It is then, by listening to our employees within this business.
In a region through surveys, appraisals, consultation where health care is not easily accessed by everyone due to its committees and communication high cost this is a significant benefit.
sessions the world over that we can 99% of employees in the regions ensure the investment we make in took up the offer, which included recruitment pays off.
Understanding examinations for hearing, vision, our employees needs, aspirations and cardiovascular risk and nutritional opinions will ensure we continually advice.
develop a retention strategy that works for our business.
Our European graduate recruitment programme has gone from strength to strength over the past three years and now sees an average of 15 graduates per annum recruited into one of our four schemes that enable us to focus their future development on areas of the business where we need the skills, namely engineering, technical, operations and commercial.
18 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information 2011 Performance The Future Testimonial: Martin Lim, Graduate Our 2011 graduate recruitment The global HR strategy has provided the Trainee, Croda Singapore programme saw 24 new employees business with a clear framework of the join in the UK, France, Spain, North areas on which we need to focus.
America, China, India and Singapore.
In relation to recruitment and retention, These individuals were all carefully we will ensure that by the end of 2013 selected using our robust recruitment emerging markets have a programme processes and join a growing body of of regional graduate and trainee Croda graduates dating back over 20 recruitment to support future business years.
Building on our experiences in For the past three years graduates from Asia, we will utilise this knowledge India, Singapore and more recently and expertise to develop a programme China have taken part in training and suitable to the Latin American market.
development activities in the UK with Building on the success of our European the European graduates.
The success employee satisfaction survey, and those of these residential programmes in that have taken place in the other developing key skills and retaining The 2010 Graduate Programme regions in which we operate in previous was a first for Croda Singapore and these key individuals for the Asian years, we will complete one global thankfully I had the opportunity to business has led us to develop an Asian employee engagement survey in 2014. be part of the pioneer batch.
This survey will then be conducted at The two year programme was least every three years.
Regarding retention performance, all structured to give us exposure 1,900 of our European employees were to different functions by rotating through three or four roles, invited to take part in the regions first During July 2011, all employees in which ensured we gained ever engagement survey.
The focus of Europe were invited to take part in an varied experience and a good the questions was based on the Croda employee engagement survey.
understanding of day to day Vision and had two main goals.
Firstly Key results of the survey were: operations.
We also took part in to give us a measure of the level of l residential training events and had 62% overall response rate: employee engagement across Europe, individual mentoring sessions with l 96% of respondents stated that they and secondly to show us where we are a senior manager to support our get personal satisfaction from doing doing well and also where we need to development.
We achieved a 62% response I am now on my last placement in l 87% of respondents agree that rate across our European operations and sales and already I can look back Croda is an ethical and responsible on my previous sales and customer the results showed us that engagement company: care roles and see that the Graduate l levels in Europe are exceptionally high.
83% of respondents would refer Programme has many benefits in Croda to a friend as a good place to several areas.
Job rotation has given work: me a broad understanding of the l 81% of respondents are committed business and first-hand experience to a long term career with Croda: and of different roles.
Mentoring l The three key areas of action are accelerated my development as I career management, reward and gained different perspectives and recognition and communication.
had timely advice along the way.
The overseas training opportunities and a wide variety of special work assignments expanded my horizons and allowed me to build important relationships across the Group, all of which I hope will allow me to contribute to the future success of Croda.
19 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Sustainability Preliminary analysis of the survey is Corporate Stakeholder providing confirmation of the areas Engagement that are material to our customers and Strategy giving a deeper insight into what may We aim to maintain ongoing and be more material in the future.
regular engagement with all our During 2011, we also started to corporate stakeholders in face to face engage face to face with investors on meetings and via specially designed sustainability issues and we saw an surveys.
We will engage with our major increasing level of enquiries from this customers, investors and suppliers on stakeholder group.
all aspects of sustainability, particularly concentrating on the issues that most The Future affect them.
Our goal is to gain an In 2012, we will further engage with understanding of the key sustainability many of the customers who responded issues that are of concern to our key to our 2011 customer survey to discuss corporate stakeholders, so that we the key sustainability issues facing can constantly aspire to meet their their organisations and understand sustainability expectations.
how we might be able to work more closely together.
A wider survey of 2011 Performance 2011 Targets our customers will also be conducted To obtain feedback on the material to include the key customers in each l In 2011, we will conduct a sustainability issues from our top region across all market sectors.
formal survey of our top 50 50 customers we conducted an customers across all market online survey.
The survey was future In response to the growing number of sectors.
focused and aimed to go beyond any enquiries from investors, as they seek current formal requirements within confirmation that they are investing in our customers supplier code.
The sustainable companies, we will formally customers contacted came from many engage with our investor community different industries and questions to gain feedback on our sustainability included: factors that influence the performance.
choice of raw material, environmental concerns, employees, labour standards, neighbours and business ethics and standards.
In 2010, we launched Solaveil SpeXtra, a novel titanium dioxide dispersion offering protection against both UVA and UVB radiation, for which we were presented with the Best New Technology Award by Cosmetics & Toiletries in 2011.
Following the long awaited F. D. A Final Rule on sunscreen labelling and effectiveness testing in 2011, we have been able to provide consumers all over the world with Our Atlas Point manufacturing site in clear guidance on broad spectrum UV North America completed two projects protection, which Solaveil SpeXtra provides.
to reduce electricity consumption in To support this activity, we launched a Sola 2011 veil Ph, with the c ysical Shield campaign, which ombined annual saving is a mark expecte ed t ting initia o be appr tive t oxima o support our tely 120,000. customers products by communicating the The first was the installation of LED superior quality, performance and reliability lighting fixtures that use 50% less energy, of Solaveil UV actives, as well as the proven whilst improving the quality of light for safety and mildness of inorganic sunscreens.
operators and reducing maintenance An integral part of this promotion is the costs due to their 10 year lifespan.
com, The second investment was a system which provides information for the that automatically adjusts temperature general public about the importance of UV and lighting when the buildings are protection, an SPF guidance tool, details unoccupied.
on the science behind our UV actives and advice on where they can find personal care products containing Solaveil.
20 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Even more satisfying is that a total of Community Involvement 684 21.3% of Group employees took T T To o otal 1% Club hours w tal 1% Club hours w tal 1% Club hours work ork orked in the c ed in the c ed in the community and ommunity and ommunity and Strategy part in 1% Club activities during 2011, per perc cen entage o tage of emplo f employ yee ees ac s acc ce es ssing the scheme sing the scheme Our involvement in the local community compared to 9.3% in 2010.
4,000 aims to deliver against a broad array The Future of objectives.
Firstly, it satisfies our The 1% Club has proven to be corporate desire to do the right extremely successful in allowing thing, ensuring that we invest in our employees to contribute to the our communities and play our part 2,000 6,000 community, and to express their in ensuring they are appropriately passion for the good causes affecting supported.
Secondly, it is a great way 2009 2.8% the lives of those in the areas in to motivate employees, helping them 2010 9.3% which we live and work.
In every to feel that they are part of a business 2011 21.3% measurement of performance, including that values the communities in which it 0 hours 0 hours breadth and quantity of involvement operates.
by our employees, the level of impact We believe that the 1% Club will delivered by our personnel is fantastic.
continue to play a significant role It is our belief that developing both in meeting many of our employee the quality and quantity of this activity development targets, and will will continue to deliver benefits for our continue to be a means by which business in terms of staff motivation we can illustrate our commitment to and personnel development, whilst community involvement.
developing quality links with our 2011 Performance neighbours.
2011 Targets All manufacturing sites and offices As such we will continue to challenge l All operations of 30 completed a stakeholder audit and our level of activity in terms of employees to undertake an developed at least one project as a community engagement and will audit of key local stakeholder result of community engagement.
look to further increase activity levels needs and develop at least In 2011, our employees have spent against those delivered in 2011. one project in line with 4,679 hours in their local community, both business and stakeholder significantly exceeding the 2,021 requirements.
The number of l In 2011, to continue employees using four or more hours monitoring 1% Club activity, of 1% Club time was 488 15.2% of aiming to increase the total Group.
time hours spent in the community by 20% based on 2010 figures.
l To increase the number of individuals in the Group using at least one half day of 1% Club time over 12 months to 15% of the global workforce.
More detail on the Groups approach to Sustainability, including additional information with regard to each At a number of our global conferences in 2011, delegates focused their team building of our material issues, can be activities on taking part in 1% Club activity near where the conferences were held.
found in the accompanying 2011 At the sales conference in Latin America, 81 employees spent half a day conducting Sustainability Report or online at extensive repairs and redecoration at a local school, Escuela Veron in Punta Cana, www.
The internal and external improvements to the school were very much appreciated by the students and teachers.
The employees that took part also found the experience very fulfilling.
Andres Rey from Croda Miami said: This was a first for Punta Cana and certainly impressed the local community.
The whole team got involved and we have left a legacy that we are all proud of.
