Corporate Social Responsibility 1 2 3 4 5 CSR: The Afren Approach 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR underpins the way In 2011 we continued to support a variety 13 ofsustainable initiatives across our operations wedo our business globally.
We are committed to improving 14 in locations including: thequality of life in the countries where weoperate.
15 Nigeria where we focused on supporting 16 Nigerian youths from our host communities Wealways consider the ramifications of our actions and 17 with skills acquisition training to improve incorporate CSR into our management systems and 18 their chances of long-term employment 19 Cte dIvoire where we support the SOS procedures.
We strive to operate to the highest international 20 Childrens Village in Aboisso by providing social, environmental and safety standards.
21 food, supplies, beds and medical equipment 22 Kenya where we donated desks, chairs, 23 lockers and other school supplies to primary 24 schools in local villages 25 Kurdistan region of Iraq where we are 26 committed toa multi-million dollar project at 27 the American University of Iraq Sulaimani to 28 develop aPetroleum Engineering department.
29 Environment In addition, we have: We place value on our 30 Experienced no major environmental spills, relationship with the 31 fines or warnings in our operations environment and strive 32 Achieved over 1 million man-hours without constantly to interact 33 a lost time accident on the Ebok project respectfully with it by being 34 Successfully recruited six graduates through mindful of its fragility.
Page 53 36 37 Key objectives for2012 38 Our objectives for 2012 are to 39 Business ethics Health and Safety continue to consolidate We conduct ourselves We insist on high 40 existing systems for with integrity to ensure standards of performance 41 managing EHSS, community that every aspect of our to ensure our workforce 42 and security issues.
2011 saw How we define CSR business is operating to remains safe and healthy.
43 production start-up at Ebok We continue to evaluate the highest standards Page 54 44 and entry into the Kurdistan of business ethics.
our CSR policies and procedures 45 region of Iraq, where we have Page 57 against international best practice 46 already performed extensive EHSS guided by both the UN Global 47 due diligence.
In2012 we intend to Compact and Equator Principles.
48 carry out aSocial Impact Assessment for Based on this framework, 49 the Kurdistan region of Iraq and engage 50 our CSR report covers with thelocal communities toimplement 51 five key areas: sustainable community development 52 projects focused oneducation.
Additionally, 53 our goal for EHSS istohave zerolost time 54 incidents, zero fatalities, andzero oilspills.
Human resources Social 55 We reward performance We appreciate the 56 and offer a progressive opportunities to be gained 57 working environment and from co-operation with local 58 development opportunities communities, striving to 59 for our employees.
We will make connections and foster 60 not tolerate discrimination relationships with all of 61 of any sort.
62 Page 56 Page 55 63 64 65 We have defined how we manage EHSS, ethical and HR issues through a set of corporate 66 policies, management systems and supporting 67 procedures and guidelines: www.
com 68 L L 69 52 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic priorities For more on our strategy see page 12 Environment 5 Corporate responsibility At Afren, environmental management is one of our top priorities.
Our operations vary from offshore to onshore andour approach is to maintain the highest international standards, rather than just abiding by local regulations.
Foreach of our assets, we perform environmental impact assessments to identify any and all risks tothe environment associated with our operations.
Throughout 2011, we worked on defining our oil spill response plans and emergency preparedness.
Our target was to avoid spills altogether, even though a minor spill did occur which was immediately cleaned and the incident investigated.
Procedures have now been put in place to further strengthen spill prevention procedures across ouroperations.
Fig 1: Afren assets produced oil-in-water content discharges vs target limit Environmental highlights from in 12 months period ouroperations Jan-Dec 2011 Environmental monitoring 25 Ebok Okoro Ebok Target Limit We are committed to monitoring our 20 Okoro environmental performance and we are making significant progress on quantifying 15 the emissions from our operations.
In Nigeria 10 in particular we have extensive annual 5 monitoring programmes carried out on ourbehalf by independent third party 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec consultants.
This monitoring covers a host ofenvironmental parameters including 2011 CO emissions by location 2011 CO emissions by activity atmospheric and liquid discharges, waste 2 2 and noise.
The intent of the programme is to Ebok Production ensure that our emissions are consistent with Okoro 5% 1% Flaring 6% those we predicted in our environmental Cte dIvoire Drilling 44% impact assessments, that they remain within Total 2011 CO emissions Total 2011 CO emissions 2 2 51% 9,509,000 tonnes 93% 9,509,000 tonnes the legal limits and thatwe are able to demonstrate this toourstakeholders.
In addition to the atmospheric emissions described in the previous section we are Atmospheric emissions In addition to looking at the total volumes monitoring the level of oil discharged with Afren is developing its approach to the issue ofatmospheric emissions, we have also our produced water.
Figure 1 shows that the ofgreenhouse gases and other atmospheric examined the source of emissions by drilling oil concentration in parts per million ppm pollutants.
In the first instance we have and production activity.
The results for 2011 for our Nigerian operations remained well examined our emissions of the key gases, emissions are shown in the graphs above for below our target discharge level of 20 ppm carbon dioxide CO, methane CH4, nitrous 2011 emissions.
2 Oxides NOx, Sulphur Oxides SOx and other volatile organic compounds VOCs since the As we move into 2012 our focus will remain Our waste streams are generally separated start of operations in 2009.
Over this period onimplementing energy efficiency initiatives into recyclable, non-hazardous and hazardous there has clearly been a significant increase that are aimed at driving down both our materials and disposed of at licensed facilities.
inactivity, with the start of Okoro production, energy costs and atmospheric emissions.
The total tonnage of production waste arising intensive development drilling on Ebok and from Okoro and Ebok for 2011 was around the start of Ebok production in 2011.
This 285 tonnes, with 4,120 tonnes of cuttings increase is directly reflected in an increase processed and disposed onshore from drilling .
Afren plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued 1 2 3 4 We benchmark our performance against International Association of Oil & Gas Production 5 Health and Safety OGP annual safety performance averages 6 to help identify Group-wide and function-specific 7 safety targets for the following year.
8 9 10 11 12 People are our most valuable resource.
We ensure that they Security 13 The security challenges faced by all companies remain healthy and safe in the workplace by identifying, 14 today is truly global.
In order to ensure that assessing and mitigating risk.
Our goal is simple: zero injuries 15 Afren provides a safe and secure workplace for 16 its employees and contractors, a comprehensive and fatalities across all areas of our operations.
17 security programme is in placeto ensure that 18 security measures are takentohelp mitigate We strive to ensure that we address important factors when 19 security threats.
developing systems and procedures, such as an understanding 20 21 of cultural differences in host countries and the use of external A key component of this programme is the 22 development and implementation of a contractors and representatives from our host communities 23 security risk assessment to cover all aspects where we operate.
We aim to construct, maintain and develop 24 ofAfrens operations in Africa and the 25 Kurdistan region ofIraq.
world-class safety systems across all ofour operations.
26 27 Afren is dedicated to ensuring that all security 28 How we achieved our objectives threats to our staff and contractors are treated 29 Identifying, assessing and mitigating risks with the highest level of attention and that 30 are the primary focus of our health and everything is done to take the required steps 31 safety programme.
In our opinion, proper toensure a safe and secure workplace.
32 assessment of risks at all levels of our 33 operations can eliminate events that may lead 34 to injury and other losses.
Our management 35 system and procedures consequently 36 incorporate a suite of risk assessment 37 techniques ranging from hands-on job safety Our Goal 38 2011 Highlights analysis, to design risk assessment such as 39 Hazard Identification Study HAZIDS and Our goal is zero injuries and Achieved over 1 million man hours 40 Hazard and Operability Study HAZOPS.
fatalities across all areas of our without lost time incidents on 41 Ebok project operations and to minimise 42 We also require that our contractors adopt 43 the same principles, rigorously checking to and or negate operational Significant improvement to our 44 ensure this is the case both before contracts healthissues.
45 Total Recordable Incident Rate are signed and again once work starts.
By 46 developing close relationships with our key TRIR and Lost Time Injury Frequency 47 contractors, we have aligned health and LTIF see graphs tothe right 48 safety programmes so that we share lessons Afren rolling 12-month average total recordable 49 learned and participate jointly in activities Continuous improvement in Nigeria incident rate All locations, employees and contractors 50 such as training and audits.
8 and Cte dIvoire to achieve 92% OGP Africa TRIR 7 OGP Global LTRIR 51 compliance withbest practice 6 52 Our efforts to improve health and safety 5 through BritishSafety Council audits 4 53 standards have dramatically reduced theTRIR 3 54 and LTIF 12-month rolling averages.
These 2 New health and safety management 55 initiatives have included performing internal 1 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec system developed and implemented 56 and external assessments, working closely across Nigeria and Cte dIvoire 57 with contractors to identify and manage Afren rolling 12-month average lost time injury frequency rate All locations, employees and contractors 58 hazards, enhancing performance incident 2.0 New focus on performance based 59 investigations and developing strategies Rolling 12-month LTIF 1.5 60 audits and unannounced inspections toprevent reoccurrence.
As a result, ourTotal OGP Africa LTIF 61 Recordable Incident Rate TRIR decreased 1.0 62 from 7.57 to 1.96 andour Lost Time Injury Early EHSS plans formulated 0.5 63 Frequency LTIF from 1.85 to 0.22 well fornew projects 0.0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 64 below theinternational OGP benchmark.
65 66 67 68 L L 69 54 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic priorities For more on our strategy see page 12 Social 5 Corporate responsibility Afrens mission is to improve the lives ofthecommunities in which we operate byimplementing sustainable community development projects.
Our three community development goals are: 1.
Employment Education Health Country Project Country Project Nigeria The University of Uyo Project: Afren acquired all the essential lab Nigeria A fren funded the inaugural phases of Faith Regens Mobile equipment and scientific journals for the Universitys Chemical and Midwives project.
This will see prototypes of mobile clinics Petroleum Engineering department.
travelling throughout rural Southern and Northern Nigeria toprovide access to healthcare for women and infants.
Secondary and tertiary scholarships awarded to 255 students Theproject is revolutionary in its commitment to meeting the inour Effiat and Eastern Obolo communities.
All applicants take Millennium 2015 health goals by increasing access to essential placement tests and were selected according to qualifications pre-natal and post-natal healthcare inisolated locations.
Not only will the scholarships enable the Cte dIvoire A fren donated food, cleaning products, bunk beds and clean young people in the community to continue their education, mattresses to three local orphanages in Abobo, Aboisso and recipients will continue to receive financial assistance for the Bingerville.
East Africa I n response to the devastating drought in East Africa, Afren made Construction began on science labs at three schools in Eastern a humanitarian donation towards Save the Childrens East African Obolo.
The three science blocks will spark interest inthe sciences, Food Crisis appeal.
The funds were allocated toprovide life-saving education and career goals among the students in our communities.
nutrition, water and healthcare for the victims of the drought.
Local contractors were engaged to complete the construction, providing local employment and creating asense of ownership Corporate A fren is supporting 67 families in a Family Strengthening within the community.
Programme at the SOS Childrens Village in Aboisso, CtedIvoire, Cte dIvoire Renovated two classrooms and living quarters at a school where they will be provided with access to medical care, in Jacqueville.
educational tools, food, counselling and training in income generating activities.
Partnered with Save the Children for a school rehabilitation and sanitation initiative at five schools in Abdijan.
Employment East Africa Our East Africa community affairs team forged strong relationships with the local chiefs and stakeholders in Kenya and Tanzania.
Successful development initiatives included re-roofing the Shimo Country Project La Tewa School in Mombassa, donating 100 lockers and chairs Nigeria A fren supported skills training for 19 young people in Eastern to a local secondary school and providing 170 desks for the Obolo.
This initiative was designed to increase the human Kichaka Mkwaju primary school in Ukunda.
capacity of our Nigerian host communities by focusing on Multi Country Established the University of Texas Afren Management skillsinwelding, fabrications, structural and pipeline welding, Endowed Graduate Fellowship in Engineering which provides auto mechanics and electrics, computer science, office afull scholarship for one African student a year.
The students management and crane operations.
tuition, books and living expenses will be covered, allowing them Corporate A fren sponsored the University of Texass Projects for to devote all their concentration to obtaining a Masters Degree Underserved Communities in Patriensa, Ghana for a third year.
from one of the leading Petroleum Engineering departments The PUC programme challenges graduate students to use inthe United States.
theireducation and skills to make a positive impact on underdeveloped communities.
Student led teams are working Afren welcomed 13 Petroleum Engineering and Geosciences with the Patriensa community to develop asustainable water interns at our Houston office over the summer to work alongside sachet packaging and repurposing business.
our engineers and geoscientists and gain valuable real-world experience.
We provide internship opportunities to African students studying at US universities, students whowould otherwise face difficulties obtaining internship opportunities dueto visa issues.
Kurdistan Committed to a multi-million dollar educational assistance project at the American University of Iraq Sulaimani to create a Petroleum Engineering department in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Afren plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued 1 2 3 1 Production growth 4 Organic reserves growth 5 Human Resources 2 6 3 Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 7 4 Operational efficiency and financial discipline 8 5 Corporate responsibility 9 10 11 12 We are totally committed to attracting, retaining and 13 developing the highest calibre employees to support Afrens 14 growth strategy and to build on our significant success.
15 16 Weaim to be an attractive employer, giving our people the 17 tools and skills to enable them to achieve their full potential 18 19 and to flourish in what is a diverse and fast-moving business.
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 We want our employees to feel valued and One of our key objectives in 2011 was to 28 engaged.
We know that by providing an continue our impressive record of developing 29 excellent physical environment, upper quartile national staff and we are encouraged that our 30 rewards, and challenging and interesting Intern Programme is going from strength to 31 projects they will have the opportunity to strength with the recruitment of 37 interns in 32 deliver to the highest industry standards.
It is Houston, London, Lagos and Abidjan.
These 33 critical for us that wemotivate and retain our talented graduates gained valuable technical 34 most important asset our people.
and professional experience during their time 35 with us working on projects in geosciences, 36 We are dedicated to providing a fair reservoir engineering, drilling engineering, 37 environment and do not discriminate when human resources, commercial, legal and 38 making decisions on hiring or promotion on finance areas.
39 the grounds of race, colour, gender, age, Olusegun Babalola is a Nigeria-based 40 religion or disability.
During 2011, we have Our graduate programme has been very geoscientist a BSc graduate in 41 again seen significant growth in our successful with six graduates recruited during Geology from the University of Ibadan 42 organisation and have recruited 86 new 2011 who are currently completing theirtraining.
recruited by Afren Nigeria in 2010.
This is an increase of nearly Oluseguns role as an operational 44 30% on2010 numbers.
Two of our graduates have now returned geologist and interpreter with the Lagos 45 toLagos, one of whom we feature opposite.
team is also now benefiting from new 46 In addition, new acquisitions in East Africa ideas and techniques acquired during 47 and the Kurdistan region of Iraq meant In 2011 we invested over US$850,000 in placements at the Companys London 48 new offices in Nairobi and Erbil to add training and development programmes and Houston offices.
We are including leadership and general management, 50 extremely proud that over 97% of technical, operational, finance, EHSS and Afrens enlightened training philosophy 51 permanent employees in our overseas ITprogrammes.
We also introduced a has made a positive impact on both the 52 offices are local nationals.
structured online soft skills programme which business and my job as a geoscientist, 53 is available to all staff.
We will continue says Olusegun, a member of the 54 Our voluntary staff turnover rose to 3% tosupport and develop our existing America Association of Petroleum 55 during 2011 from 2% in 2010.
This is still employees through structured learning Geologists and the Nigerian Association 56 an exceptionally lowpercentage and anddevelopment programmes.
57 indicates a high level of employee 58 engagement and satisfaction with We are also sponsoring undergraduates During my time with Afren in the UK 59 theworking environment.
through their degree programmes and and US, I expanded my network of highly 60 partnering with top universities in the USA, experienced people and acquired important 61 UK, Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of Iraq new skills too.
Real time geosteering 62 to build new skills for thefuture.
drilling, sub-surface interpretation, permit 63 preparation and operational geology are 64 just some of the valuable techniques now 65 shaping my career.
66 67 68 L L 69 56 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic priorities For more on our strategy see page 12 Business Ethics 5 Corporate responsibility We are committed to conducting business according to the highest ethical standards reinforcing our efforts to uphold this principle in 2011.
Our policies set out standards forour employees behaviour.
We require our people tocomply with our business ethics, as we do our suppliers.
As an international company with offices We remain vigilant in the important area of inanumber of jurisdictions, it is our policy corporate governance.
The Code of Business tocomply with all governmental laws, rules and Conduct Policy is part of our employee regulations applicable to our business.
We are handbook which we require all new staff fully aware of our obligations relating to the US to read, confirming that they understand Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK and will abide by its requirements.
The whistle Bribery Act and have taken steps to implement blowing policy and procedure established adequate procedures to prevent corrupt in 2009 to alert us to potential malpractices practices either within our organisation or being remains in place.
An independently operated carried out by third parties on ourbehalf.
and confidential ethics reporting facility is available worldwide so employees can raise In 2011 we updated our Code of Business issues or concerns regarding business conduct Conduct to provide further guidance on independently ofthe normal management arange of topics and to ensure compliance chain.
Employees can send emails or call with the UK Bribery Act.
During the year telephone numbers incountries throughout theUK Government issued the Bribery Act the world to report any concerns they may Adequate Procedures guidance.
We have about business conduct.
Calls are developed and implemented compliance handled independently by Safecall and may procedures which we cascaded through the be made in total confidence.
organisation during 2011 via a compulsory training programme for all employees.
In 2011 Afren received a total of two reports.
Consisting ofinformation sessions, we delivered Reports are investigated by the Group to employees in our offices in Nigeria, General Counsel & Company Secretary and CtedIvoire, Kenya, USA and England, Senior Independent Director with support reaching over 250 officers and key contractors.
from the relevant departments as required.
Afren expects compliance with standards Asenior management steering group meets ofintegrity and adherence to policies and quarterly to review cases, identify trends internal controls throughout the organisation.
andmanage the associated ethical and reputational risks.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors cases reported, themanagement of cases and the results ofhigh risk investigations undertaken.
Afren plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
