30 Dairy Dairy Crest Crest Annual Annual Report Report 2011 2011 30 Business review continued We CARe We act responsibly with a passion to do the right thing Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 31 Corporate Responsibility As a responsible business we are committed to fully integrating corporate responsibility into our business strategy.
To ensure we are able to continuously improve our performance 87% this year we participated in Business in the Communitys index and following a rigorous assessment we were awarded 87%, which is Business in at the higher end of their silver band.
This is an encouraging result the Communitys for us as we continue to try to do the right thing from both a moral index award point of view and from a commercial point of view.
environment Comment Reduce CO emissions by 30% by 2020 from 2007 levels 7% reduction since 2007 2 Reduce water usage by 20% by 2020 from 2007 levels 13% reduction since 2007 Zero waste to landfill by 2015 Total recycling rate up to 64% from 41% Plastic milk bottles to be made from 30% recycled material Aim for 15% rHDPe by 2012.
Dairy industry slightly behind by 2015 target due to supply chain issues Introduce recyclable labels on own brand milk by 2012 as laid On track to be introduced in 2011 12 out in Courtauld 2 Marketplace Grow our lighter brands Volume of Clover Lighter and Country Life Lighter exceeds 12% and Cathedral City Lighter almost 16% of the brands volume Grow 1% milk to save 100 tonnes of saturated fat from 100 tonnes of saturated fat saved consumers diets Sign up top 10 suppliers to our ethical supply policy 37 suppliers have signed up Community Raise 500,000 for our charity partner Over 900,00 raised used to support over 2,500 people Raise awareness of the services provided by Macmillan Information delivered to 1.3 million homes and achieved cancer care a 95% staff awareness Our local community committees are engaged with our Almost 100 local good causes supported across Dairy Crest community programme and are supporting good causes through donations and volunteering Workplace Increase safety of our employees employee reportable incidents reduced by 16% 3% better than target.
Days lost reduced by 40% and reported near misses, allowing for corrective action, were up 99% Contractors sign up to our safer contract scheme 317 contractors signed up as part of the safer contractor scheme Community Macmillan cancer support to be our charity make some of the nations favourite lighter Our staff charity Macmillan partnership for 2009 to 2011. dairy products including Cathedral City With one in three people in the UK likely to Over the course of the partnership our Mature Lighter and we are looking forward get cancer at some point in their lives its staff raised over 900,000 for the charity, to working in partnership with the UKs an issue that affects directly and indirectly which was used to provide support to biggest heart charity.
many of our customers and staff.
For about 2,500 people and with the help this reason and given that many of our of our milkmen we delivered information Princes Countryside Fund customers live alone or in isolated, rural about cancer to 1.3 million households As a business thats proud of its links locations where they are not fully aware across the UK.
to the countryside we are delighted to of the advice and financial support that Our chosen charity for the next two support the Princes Countryside Fund.
could be available to them, our staff chose years is the British Heart Foundation.
We The Fund, which is chaired by Mark Allen, Business review 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Business review | CR continued a comprehensive behavioural safety objectives and get their ideas on how we programme.
We have now established can continuously improve.
annual health and safety audits for our Finally, requirement for our contractors sites and using an independent third to be accredited under the leading UK safe party, and our internal Customer Direct contractor scheme is now well established, Division, audits at every depot are now with over 300 contractors now signed up.
Our behavioural safety programme in Foods and Dairies is now Wellbeing in the workplace focusing on employees taking personal As part of the three year occupational responsability for accident prevention.
health strategy, which we launched last British Heart Customer Direct has established year, we have been giving all our staff behavioural safety champions in each aged over 40 the opportunity to benefit Foundation, of its 10 areas and they are focusing on from a medical check up by our team of our new behavioural improvement at the depot occupational health advisers, which we level.
We have completed almost chosen As driving on public roads is 1,000 MOTs to date and from 2011 12 undoubtedly dangerous we are these will be offered to all of our staff charity for pleased to say that in Customer Direct regardless of their age.
Our occupational the next two years 1,120 colleagues have completed the health team was a key part of the health NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods and safety stand at the Dairy Crest road sees us work alongside 15 other prominent programme.
This practical programme shows in 2010 and the medical check UK businesses to provide grants to has helped staff improve their driving ups were a very popular aspect.
each projects that help British farms and rural skills and has taught them how to avoid check up included a cholesterol and communities.
One of the charities we have injuries and accidents.
blood pressure assessment and a body chosen to support both through the fund We are also delighted that CPC mass index measurement.
We have also and independently is Pub is the Hub training for our LGV drivers is now being completed a number of health promotion which helps pubs offer rural communities delivered in-house for all divisions, by our campaigns including musculoskeletal additional services like a shop, internet internal IDAS team.
By having accredited matters, relaxation techniques and caf or citizens advice bureau.
training centres it means we can be information about heart disease.
We are more flexible when it comes to delivering now in the process of sharing good health Our community programme the training and we can spend longer and well being practice with other major keeping it local focusing on issues that are more pertinent food companies as part of the Business in Over the course of the year our community to Dairy Crest.
committees have helped our local community programme go from strengthEnvironment to-strength and through their efforts we Climate change is one of the biggest have supported about 100 community challenges we face both individually projects ranging from school gardening and collectively.
At Dairy Crest we take 1,120 projects through to after school clubs this responsibility seriously and we are and projects that help clear polluted or committed to playing our full part in colleagues overgrown public spaces.
reducing the amount of greenhouse Other community projects we have gases emitted during the manufacturing have supported include working with Greater and distribution of our products and by Manchester police to help them reduce supporting our suppliers, including our completed crime in the Salford area and a music farming suppliers, they can reduce their the NVQ project, TUPUP which teaches children carbon emissions.
to learn a musical instrument in this Our greatest achievement this year Carrying instance a homemade ukulele made from has been the building of biomass boilers an Utterly Butterly tub.
and Delivering at our creamery in Davidstow.
As the largest biomass boilers in existence in Goods programme Workplace the UK outside of a power station, the Safety new boilers will reduce the companys Our health and safety objective is very Over the course of the year we launched carbon footprint by 12% or 17,000 tonnes.
simple: we want everyone who works for a manual handling campaign and a So that we continuously improve we us, and with us, to go home to his slips, trips and falls campaign, both of are also investigating using geothermal or her family at the end of their working which are the main causes of accidents energy at the same creamery and we day without any injury or occupational in Dairy Crest.
are considering the possibility of using ill health.
In September 2010 we set up an photovoltaic panels and Combined Heat To ensure we achieve this objective we online health and safety learning induction and Power at some of our more suitable have in place a number of initiatives that programme which means that all staff can sites.
Our overall target is to reduce our go beyond what is required by law and access health and safety training both at manufacturing CO emissions by a further 2 we focus on areas that are of particular home and at work a significant benefit 30% against 2007 levels by 2020 which relevance to our business.
for staff who are not office based.
builds on the 34% CO reduction we made 2 Our key focus remains on maintaining To further engage our shop floor staff between 2003 and 2009. excellent compliance standards and we ran three successful health and safety As well as investing in green energy improving our safety culture through conferences to help them understand our we have also invested in technology that Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 33 helps us become more energy efficient bottles are made from PeT plastic, which is In our dairies division the launch of 1% milk including purchasing 150 eco start easier to recycle and our aim is to use 15% has helped save consumers the equivalent Mercedes Sprinter vans for our Customer recycled material in the manufacturing of of 100 tonnes of fat from their diet and in Direct division and we have fitted our our plastic milk bottles in 2012 building on 2010 the launch of our Weight-Watchers trucks with telemetric systems enabling the 10% that is already used.
branded cream, which has 70% less us to reduce CO emissions by more We have re-committed to the saturated fat than regular double cream, has 2 than 5,000 metric tonnes per year.
All next phase of WRAPs Waste and meant that consumers can still enjoy the of this is in addition to our fleet of 1,500 Resources Action Programme Courtauld taste of real cream with less saturated fat.
Commitment, which incorporates targets Since the launch of our every day products about reducing packaging impact, supply we have saved consumers 8,500 tonnes of chain waste and household food waste saturated fat from their diet.
and as part of that commitment all the As well as investing in the development labels we use for our own brand milk will of lower fat variants of our more popular be made from recyclable plastic.
brands we have also invested in creating 12% Finally, we are pleased to report that products that can be consumed by people we have reduced the amount of milk lost with allergies for example our colleagues at reduction in as a consequence of our processing Fayrefied Foodtec created award winning carbon activities and in 2010 11 we achieved a gluten free muffins and St Hubert, our year-on-year improvement of 3%.
This French spreads business, works closely footprint performance reverses the slight increase with independent nutritional institutions.
following in milk lost last year and it returns us to the downward trend of milk lost during Supporting British farming installation processing which has since 2002 3 As a company thats committed to a reduced by 40%.
sustainable future for British farmers and of new biomass boilers the British dairy industry, we are proud Marketplace of the fact that in the UK we only source Natural resources We are committed to providing consumers milk from British farms and we offer our Our business is proud of its links with the with healthy, enjoyable products, for supplying farmers a fair and competitive countryside and our dairy heritage and us to do business in the most ethically milk price.
we are passionate about doing what we responsible way possible and for us to All Dairy Crest milk carries a Red can to help protect natural resources, ensure that the products we manufacture Tractor logo, which means all of our milk especially by reducing the amount of water are made to the highest food safety has been produced to independently we use and looking after the biodiversity of standards as possible.
inspected standards right across the food the areas where we operate of particular chain from farm to pack.
note is the work we are doing with many Small steps big difference We recognise that food safety is nonof our farmers and retailers.
Since their launch the lighter variants of negotiable and that the quality of our Further to signing up to the Federation our brands namely Cathedral City Mature products underpins our success.
House Commitment to reduce our water Lighter, Country Life Lighter and Clover As a leading food manufacturer we have usage by 20% by 2020, which we are Lighter have continued to grow.
Cathedral a responsibility to ensure the food we on course to achieve, we have so far City Mature Lighter now accounts for over produce is safe to eat and drink.
We reduced water usage by 13% since 2007.
12% of the brands volume, Clover Lighter have implemented well-proven quality In 2010 we have also pledged to review accounts for almost 16% of the brands management procedures to ensure we our current water usage and to create volume and Country Life Lighter accounts manage and control the safety and site-specific water efficiency plans by the for over 12% of the brands volume.
quality of our products throughout the end of this financial year.
All this is part of supply chain.
a campaign developed by the Food and Understanding consumer feedback is Drink Federation and environwise.
key to improving the quality and desirability of our products especially as there is Waste a growing demand from consumers to 8,500 We are committed to reducing waste which know more about nutrition and healthy arises throughout our supply chain.
To eating and environmental matters such as emphasise this commitment we set our packaging and recycling.
tonnes manufacturing sites the ambitious target To meet this demand we have in place of having zero waste to landfill by 2015 a freephone consumer care helpline and saturated fat except where environmentally advantageous.
freepost address so consumers are able saved from We are currently on course to meet this, to contact us easily and without incurring already achieving an 80% recycling rate cost.
Our technical team monitors and consumers across our manufacturing sites up from reviews all positive and negative feedback a recycling rate of 48% in 2009. from consumers, and uses this information diets since As part of our drive to reduce the to develop action plans to drive continuous the launch amount of packaging we use for the improvement.
products we manufacture we have In 2010 we introduced a bespoke of our lighter products continued to invest in new packaging ethical supply policy, which includes techniques including milk bags and JUGIT requirements for our suppliers to comply which use 75% less plastic to manufacture with bespoke and relevant standards that than a standard plastic bottle.
Our FRijj are above the statutory minimum.
