8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Our people WE RESPECT We value our people and are stronger together Our people are our most valuable resource and our business is dependent on the success of individual employees.
Our aim is to ensure we treat staff equitably, encourage meaningful communication, reward hard work and provide staff with the opportunity to help them reach their potential.
Pride and glory Sharing in our success Being valued and recognised at work is important.
To help us To help make sure staff are able to share in our success almost best achieve this we have in place a reward and recognition all of our staff participate in an incentive scheme thats tailored scheme, which gives all staff the opportunity to nominate to the role they do and the division they work in.
All financial colleagues for an award.
rewards are linked to the companys performance and the Over the course of the year more than 10% of people were individuals performance.
successfully nominated by their colleagues to receive Finally, we also give staff the opportunity of participating in a bronze award and over 20 staff received a silver award.
The our three-year sharesave scheme so they can save up to 250 gold award winner was chosen from these silver award winners.
A new opportunity to join the scheme will come As well as acknowledging individual achievements we also later this year.
At present almost a third of staff participate in celebrated a team of the year award.
Gold award - Tony Jackson, Individual of the year During the heavy snow in the first week of December 2010 Tony Jackson, who works at our Mansfield Depot, went that Davidstows energy team from left to right: Phil Hunt, Bruce Bailey, extra mile to make sure homes and businesses, including new Melvin Arthur and Gary Shorrocks with site manager, Chris Terrett.
customers who had just signed up to receive milk&more, didnt go without their orders from Customer Direct.
Not only did he work extra hours to support colleagues, he also took up jobs that were usually done by other members of staff who simply couldnt make it into work.
The result was that the new Dairy Crest contracts were honoured and existing customers received their orders.
If that wasnt enough Tony also made sure the safety of his team was never compromised.
Our first team of the year award goes to Davidstow Our Davidstows energy team was named as our team of the year after they successfully introduced a green energy strategy at the creamery.
It was members of this team who first realised there was an opportunity to establish a biomass facility at the site.
The project, which is now up and running, will help reduce Dairy Crests entire carbon footprint by about 12%.
The team is now turning their attention to photovoltaic and geothermal technologies.
Investing in training and development Programme are women, despite them making up less than 20% We understand that investing in the needs of our staff is important of our workforce.
because it leads to a highly motivated workforce, it unlocks talent In order to achieve best practice when it comes to employing and it helps improve peoples skills and knowledge.
To ensure we people with disabilities we are taking part in a two ticks scheme are best placed to meet the requirements of all of our staff we have trial.
The two ticks scheme is a disability best practice scheme in place a wide range of suitable training courses.
In addition to this trial we are In order to make training as accessible as possible, which is also members of the Employers Forum on Disability Forum, important in a business where the majority of staff are not office which actively looks at improving working opportunities and based, last year we introduced an online e-learning website that arrangements for disabled employees.
enables staff to access over 100 courses ranging from health and safety through to IT.
Encouragingly, since its launch over 1,000 Attracting and retaining the best people employees have regularly accessed the online facility.
As the UKs leading chilled dairy company attracting and We are pleased to report that since establishing a foundation retaining great people is vital to our continued success.
To degree in dairy technology at Reaceheath the course is going from ensure we hit the ground running we have introduced a new strength-to-strength.
This practical and academic programme employer brand called Living it which is helping us attract talent gives processing staff the skills they need to excel at their job and into our business.
The brand encapsulates everything that is importantly for the dairy industry it ensures we have skilled dairy good about Dairy Crest as both an employer and a company processing managers for the future.
it helps us professionally and clearly demonstrate what we can As well as developing our leaders of tomorrow we recognise offer existing and potential employees.
the importance of continuing to develop our leaders of today.
To In 2010 we carried out our third employee engagement survey help us achieve this we have introduced a talent programme called achieving a record 87% response rate, which is well above the My Career and this year 129 of our most capable employees will UK average of 74% and although we were disappointed that staff participate in the programme which includes mentoring with senior engagement was slightly down on 2009 it had declined less than managers and directors.
the UK average and it was still better than the feedback received To ensure the continuing development of our senior managers in 2007.
Importantly a programme is now in place to act on our this year we became members of the IMD Corporate Learning employees response.
The IMD is a national business school based in Lausanne, Switzerland, which provides senior managers with best in class leadership development.
Finally through the IGD the food and grocery industry body we are exploring the possibility of introducing apprenticeships and work placement opportunities for school leavers and university students.
Diversity We are committed to providing staff with an inclusive working environment where everyone feels valued and respected.
We recognise that people from different backgrounds, experiences and abilities can bring fresh ideas and innovations that help improve our working practices and business.
Over the last 12 months through our Diversity Steering Group, whose membership broadly reflects our business and which includes a board member, we have introduced enhanced maternity and paternity policies, implemented more flexible working policies and have given staff the opportunity to take sabbaticals.
To ensure women are better represented at the highest level we are pleased to report that 30% of participants of our Talent O O O O O Ov v v v v five e e e e er r r r r rv v v v v viiiiiie e e e e ew w w w w w
