AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMGT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION David Dutton Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee The issue for us is not whether to pursue corporate HIGHLIGHTS Group CO emissions responsibility CR, but how best to achieve it.
2 are now at 93,100 Corporate responsibility and sustainability are intimately tonnes a year, a interconnected.
Businesses that take CR seriously are often reduction of 5% since better run, more efficient and more resilient.
Each of our businesses Euromoney Institutional OUR APPROACH Nearly 1.4m operates in particular Investor controls multiple As a Group weve always been conditions.
They understand companies and has people all donated to various committed to sustainable, their own markets.
Every year it long-term performance.
Its an charities during best placed to define and selects a single charity to approach that has served us promote their own CR support.
All of its employees the year.
get to vote on the most Managing our businesses and Over 2m in free deserving cause.
This Smart, highly-skilled people run brands responsibly, valuing our democratic process promotes these companies.
They are advertising space own people and respecting fund raising and is a valuable used to acting independently.
the communities we serve are given by Associated binding agent for the At Group level we typically the essential pre-requisites for company.
help them most by backing Newspapers titles.
Volunteering and giving The people that run our something back are important We aim to equip our people businesses have considerable cultural building blocks at with the knowledge, the autonomy, but we expect Hobsons.
The company has resources, the training and, each of them to act worked locally and globally for crucially, the permission to responsibly and in the longmany years to support schools.
We try term interests of the Group.
not to be prescriptive in our A&N Media has different approach.
Its newspapers want Multiple CR campaigns are to forge connections with their Our various businesses have more effective than a single respective readerships.
At evolved CR strategies to fit unified programme Associated Newspapers the their distinct cultures and We manage a portfolio of very emphasis is on national issues underlying objectives.
As such, a that resonate with readers.
For one-size-fits-all CR policy the Northcliffe titles, it makes would be counter-productive.
strategic sense to engage with local initiatives.
44 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMGT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our approach to CR reflects improve our ability to swap feel-good factor about the our decentralised stories and spread best business that engages and management philosophy practice.
They encourage stronger Our Corporate Responsibility links with key constituencies Committee reports directly to We are reinforcing the link and communities.
The Committee between sustainability and networked world, content doesnt formulate CR policy.
long-term performance providers succeed by We act in an advisory rather We are committed to staying at the heart of their than an executive capacity.
Our primary Our remit is to monitor likely when were not just responsibility is to protect the environmental, waste, responding to demand, but long-term viability of our own sustainability, employee, sharing customer concerns.
Our attitude to customer, supplier and CR initiatives, particularly sustainability helps us stay community practices across those that engage supply relevant in a changing world.
Committee members chain partners, instil a sense include interested parties with of common purpose.
CR activities support our relevant Group-wide Looking ahead, we will carry strategic objectives in the responsibilities and senior on promoting best practice following ways: nominees from our five main and continue to build on the They help attract and retain business units.
I have Board improvements we have talent.
For all our staff, level responsibility.
already made across the especially younger recruits, Group.
We exchange experiences taking on wider and record performance.
We responsibilities adds to our act as a sounding board and a appeal.
Most people look forum for ideas.
We discuss David Dutton for more from their ways to improve and build on Chairman, Corporate workplace than mere whats already been bottom-line efficiency.
want to enjoy their work, spend time with friends and Weve invested heavily in for their actions to have a communications infrastructure positive influence.
Our CR over the past two years to activities promote a PROPORTION OF NEWSPRINT SUSTAINABLY SOURCED Detailed here is a summary of CR activities in 2011.
A dedicated CR section can be found on www.
com 100 % where further information is updated regularly.
collection process with our footprint continued to shrink in ENVIRONMENT financial reporting.
CO emissions stood at For the fourth year in 2 streamlined administration 93,100 tCO 97,300 tCO 2010, succession we have collected 2 2 and improved data reliability.
an 18% decrease against our CO emissions data from 2 2007 baseline 114,100 tCO.
each of our five operating 2 We have elected not to apply companies.
The data is for re-certification with the In 2007 we set ourselves the collated and independently Carbon Trust Standard in 2012. target of reducing overall verified by the environmental Previously the administrative emissions by at least 10% by audit consultancy, ICF costs of complying with the 2012.
Standard were offset by goal two years ahead of certain tax advantages, but schedule we are building on We are committed to these have now been those gains.
We are consulting comprehensive, transparent withdrawn.
We are researching with our business units before reporting of our environmental alternatives.
We continue to setting new Group-wide performance.
DMGT has been focus on the CDP and on emissions targets.
a signatory to the international reducing our carbon footprint.
Carbon Disclosure Project CDP since 2008.
This year we Despite an increase in integrated our carbon data economic activity our carbon DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 45 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMGT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We are working hard to reduce Metros inaugural four-day Following a successful NUMBER OF HOURS environmental impacts across EcoVelocity event, at Battersea collaboration between A&N VOLUNTEERED BY EDR STAFF the Group.
Power station in London during Media and the Waste to AT CAMP RISING SUN September, advanced the Wonder charity last year, we DMGTs headquarters at cause of low-carbon motoring.
have extended our recycling Northcliffe House, also the The event showcased the programme for redundant London base of Associated 272 latest low emission vehicles office furniture to other Newspapers, Northcliffe Media from leading manufacturers.
and dmg::events, retains the prized ISO 14001 international Landmark Information Groups EMPLOYEES environmental standard.
Green IT Awards event is now The Group has policies in in its second year.
The awards place on equal opportunities, This year we announced a reward the technologies and whistleblowing, health and three-year plan to transfer our organisations doing most to safety and the environment.
London printing production improve the IT industrys from the ISO 14001-accredited As an equal opportunities environmental performance.
Harmsworth Quays to a green employer we believe it is field site in Thurrock.
The The Exeter Express and important for our staff to feel Thurrock facility will set even Echo underlined its green a connection between their higher standards for credentials by winning the values and their work.
performance, environmental Environmental Initiative of the We aim to promote an efficiency and waste Year for the second year inspiring, healthy and inclusive minimisation.
running at the 2011 Newspaper work environment in all our Awards.
Its Green Team Project Euromoney Institutional businesses.
In 2011 the Hobsons is a simple and effective Investor continued its Cincinatti Headquarters was campaign run with the local programme of reducing voted best workplace in its council that engages schools operational hours for the main region.
by awarding points for plant systems in its buildings.
Internally, we communicate RMS server virtualisation using multiple channels, technology is improving WASTE including DMGT Connect, our performance, using physical We have identified waste intranet site, and DMGT Chatter, servers and power minimisation as a particular our business collaborative consumption more efficiently, area of focus.
and reducing manufacturing is not only environmentally waste.
DMGT Chatter launched this desirable it makes good year.
Its use is helping to business sense.
Where commercial imperatives accelerate the exchange of constrain the ability to reduce Newsprint production waste, ideas.
The CR group, one of emissions, our businesses are the most significant element the first to make use of the adopting other carbon-saving of waste arising from our service, now runs regular, measures.
activities, again reduced this scheduled online chats and year.
We work closely with our International travel is conference calls.
paper suppliers to raise the unavoidable for dmg::events ENGAGING WITH proportion of recycled stock executives.
The London office COMMUNITIES we use without compromising has signed a five-year deal quality.
Employees with the UK Forestry We encourage all our people Commission-backed Heart of We have identified three high to engage with stakeholder England Forest Project to plant impact areas paper, water communities and get involved and maintain a 20-acre and ink.
In each we continue with charitable projects.
Each broadleaf wood in the UK.
to make progress across the business approaches this in its During their lifetimes these supply chain.
additional trees will capture at Our office-based divisions least 3,100 tonnes of CO, well 2 Euromoney Institutional have limited direct over five times the London Investors employees vote for environmental impact.
We teams annual air travel a single project each year.
recycle paper in all our global emissions.
In 2011 they are raising money offices.
Where the to provide clean water and As a content-led business, infrastructure supports it we sanitation in Kechene, perhaps the biggest embrace other recycling Ethiopia.
Some 250,000 environmental contribution we initiatives.
Plastic, glass, metals, 300,000 will be contributed can make is by promoting the toner cartridges, mobile through staff fundraising, from green agenda.
phones and IT equipment are the businesss charity budget all being recycled.
46 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMGT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EDR identifies a range of Customers and suppliers Jobsite UK is helping children causes, focusing primarily on We often link up with supply locally.
Employees give time cancer and child-centred chain partners to further a to assist in schools close to charities.
It has set up schemes deserving cause.
One of the its Havant headquarters.
that make it easy for more significant examples this It also runs a football employees to volunteer and year was at the Euromoney mentoring scheme give back to their community.
Awards for Excellence dinner alongside Portsmouth FC.
Every single EDR employee got in September.
This event, now Youth is also a priority at DMGT involved in the programme in its twentieth year, is the most HQ.
It supports the Princes in 2011. prestigious in the financial Trust, which last year helped markets calendar.
Over 500 Three of dmg::events-Digital 44,000 young people get back bankers from all over the world Marketings employees were in work or education.
At a charity auction diagnosed with cancer this Metro has built a 3.3 million held that evening, some very year.
This became the stimulus readership by forging close generous customers raised for a series of fund-raisers for links with the cities it serves.
597,000 for the Little Rock cancer charities.
In New York When riots erupted in England School in the Kibera slum in staff joined the Bowling for over the summer the paper Nairobi, enough to guarantee Breast Cancer event.
In San wanted to reach out to the schools future and build Francisco they took on the affected companies.
It offered RAISED BY RMS STAFF FOR an orphanage nearby.
Livestrong long-distance VICTIMS OF THE JAPANESE them free advertising space cycling challenge in aid of the But the scale of the donation TSUNAMI IN A MONTH and design services.
A&N initiative soon extended to Also in California, iMedia Media has been joining forces other titles.
Associated employees joined a Light The with suppliers and customers Newspapers as a whole $44,000 Night walk for the Leukemia to make a difference on a donated over 2 million worth and Lymphona Society.
Mail of advertising space in the Classified for instance The devastating consequences aftermath of the riots.
collaborated with Dubai of the tsunami in Japan moved A&N Media is proud to have Tourism to raise 1,700 in a RMS staff to action.
A monthmade a donation to the Team charity raffle for the Just a long, employee initiated 2012 Fundraising Appeal, Drop clean water campaign.
supporting Britains athletes on YOU Magazine works with When a tragic accident took their journey to success.
The Clarins on a major annual the lives of four miners in company is also encouraging award scheme.
The Clarins Swansea Valley, close to homegrown talent with Most Dynamisante Woman of where South West Wales Media journalism scholarships, an MA the Year award recognises an employees live and work, the in journalism at the University exceptional British woman South Wales Evening Post was of Kent, the Catch-22 working for underprivileged or among the first to contribute internship scheme and with a sick children with a 30,000 to a fund for the families.
continued the campaign to achieve the 200,000 target.
Communities In a long-standing partnership A&N Media staff are with the charity Plan, Hobsons encouraged to raise funds with employees raise funds to help match-funded support for the build schools in some of the charity of their choice.
difficult economic conditions Previous projects have been in in 2011 total donations rose by Namibia, Nicaragua, Malaysia, over a third to 116,000 Guatemala, Laos, Kenya, 77,000 2010.
This year employees visited Rwanda to witness construction of another new primary school.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 47
