SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As a specialist electrical retailer Kesa Supply chain As the European market leader in large white is well placed to manage an effective Improving labour, environmental and social goods, we specialise in offering our customers approach to corporate responsibility practices in the Groups supply chain, specic advice on the energy efficiency of our CR that pursues profitable growth by ensuring that our suppliers and ranges.
This enables them to make informed while enhancing brand equity.
It has business partners are made aware of buying decisions in terms of power and water our requirements and take all reasonable consumption.
We also offer practical advice, long been our belief that good CR steps to ensure they are met.
in store and on the web, on how to use the practice makes sound financial sense.
However, as a pan-European Group products in the most efficient way and help represented in 10 countries, a one size People dispose of them at end of life.
ts all approach is not appropriate Providing a working environment that is because of the different sizes and conducive to the recruitment and retention This programme is tailored to each of our maturity of our businesses.
of the widest possible range of talented markets and is currently in its most advanced staff.
Offering them a safe and healthy stages of implementation at our major Therefore the majority of our activities are place of work.
We wish to be recognised operations in France and the UK and is locally driven, reecting customer demands as a good employer aiming to reward being adopted across the Group.
In addition, and market sensitivities.
However, there is a people fairly and to provide equality we were the first retailer in the UK to test corporate responsibility team comprising of opportunity, personal development the energy efficiency of all the televisions, senior managers from each of the businesses.
DVD players and computers we sell and Chaired by the Company Secretary, the team then promote the better performing products.
meets regularly to share best practices and Communities Darty France devotes two pages in its develop practical performance measures that Working for our customers and local monthly magazine Darty et vous, and could be adopted across the Group.
communities, contributing to community has a dedicated section on its website, activities in the areas we serve.
Our initiatives fall into four key areas: and encouraging staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
A major Group strength is its ability to Environment facilitate the recycling of large white goods, Improving the Groups use of energy, Environment helped by the efficient reverse logistics the impact of our transport eet and As an electrical retailer we have a relatively capability.
Annually we recycle over 60,000 our use of bulk materials such as paper low direct environmental impact, but we still tonnes of products, representing more than and packaging, by minimising waste, wish to minimise the environmental impact 50 per cent of products sold.
Darty France increasing energy efficiency and reducing of all our operations throughout the Group.
alone collected over 39,000 tonnes of our consumption ofmaterials.
We also want to ensure that neither our products for recycling in 2010, which is products nor our operations adversely affect 35per cent more than in 2007.
We believe the health of our customers, our employees this makes us the leading MDA recycler in or the community at large.
Europe and we still have further opportunities to improve as our Developing businesses gain scale in their markets and grow their logistics infrastructures.
20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW We also aim to reduce the amount of not have significant operations or retail outlets are known as the Factory Audit and the Final packaging we use and ensure that it can in countries that present a material risk from Random Inspection.
We have an experienced be recycled.
We collect all waste packaging bribery or corruption, poor labour standards quality team based in China which carries out when delivering a household appliance unless or protection of civil or political rights.
regular factory audits to ensure that they meet the customer requests otherwise.
At Darty However, some of our suppliers do.
the strict social, environmental and supply France, BCC and Vanden Borre we have chain standards we require, and the audit specialised equipment that compresses We are determined that the respect for cycle has been improved from triennial to all polystyrene packaging collected from human rights in our own operations should be biennial.
In addition, the team also carries customers homes for recycling and re-use matched by the companies and organisations out random inspections of goods before as garden furniture.
At Darty France, with whom we do business.
Whether we shipments are made to ensure that quality packaging waste is also collected from the are dealing with major brands or sourcing standards are being maintained.
Products warehouses and after-sales service centres from elsewhere we ensure that our products which have been listed for more than 18 and annually it recycles over 40,000 tonnes have been tested for safety, health and months are fully re-evaluated, and all new of packaging waste.
At the same time OEM products have full CE certication from our policy is to work in partnership with our accredited European laboratories.
The ongoing rapid development of new suppliers to help them reduce their impact technology creates increasingly high levels on the environment and to manage the In addition, as a further environmental of hazardous electronic and electrical waste, challenges of sustainable growth.
The Group measure we are consciously trying to minimise which is the background for the WEEE sources its own label products from factories the emissions from our transport operations.
Its aim is to minimise the impact that are committed to improving workers We have modied our logistics operation to of electrical and electronic equipment on the welfare and reducing environmental impact.
achieve a more efficient use of the transport environment when those products eventually eet.
We also make use of satellite navigation become waste.
In order to sell products within We believe that every link of the supply chain systems to improve our delivery schedules.
the EU manufacturers must demonstrate should benefit from the trade in our products.
This not only reduces the distance our vans compliance with the new regulations.
This We have two kinds of audit procedures which and lorries travel but also provides our means that electrical retailers must extend are designed to ensure proper environmental customers with more predictable arrival times.
their take back facilities to cover all categories standards in our factories and to monitor the The Group is constantly exploring new including smaller appliances such as kettles quality of our products in this respect.
These initiatives that make good CR sense while and microwaves.
We also have in-store collection points for batteries and Darty France has been so successful that it now collects and recycles more batteries than it actually sells.
Additional projects from around the Group include 109 centrally based Building Management systems at Comet to control all energy usage in the stores, reducing consumption without affecting customers in-store experience: 40 stores now have some LED lighting installed and store managers have specic energy-saving targets.
Vanden Borre has an ongoing campaign to reduce plastic bag usage, SERVICE which has seen total bag usage decreased by 38 per cent against rising sales.
Vanden Order a takeaway Borres new warehouse has been tted with With our extensive logistics infrastructure, solar panels that produce enough power for we deliver the new appliance, remove the old over 270 households.
one and take away the packaging for recycling.
Supply chain Customers increasingly expect that retailers should have procedures in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically produced from beginning to end of the supply chain.
Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major international brands who have their own strong ethical and environmental policies in place.
We do Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 21 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Comets e-learning programme has over 7,000 active users who completed 320,000 modules in the past 12 months.
At Darty that a well-trained workforce is a key France they have introduced enhanced driver differentiator and we therefore put great training with the aim of reducing fuel emphasis on our training programmes.
consumption and CO emissions by some In the UK we developed a market-leading 2 15per cent.
Further savings will come from e-learning programme which now has over the introduction of new delivery vehicles 7,000 active users, with 320,000 modules with Euro 5 engines and Stop and Start completed in the past 12 months.
At Comet in the UK, by videos have now been released to help continually improving warehouse utilisation, improve store staff product knowledge, in Darty France has a longpallet use and reverse logistics, we saved addition to using digital magazines eBooks.
a further 1,800 tonnes of CO emissions on The scheme has also been adopted and 2 standing reputation for helping top of the 4,000 tonnes of CO saved in the tailored inHolland.
The move to Ecoex engine the ENVIE programme over technology on the lorry eet saves a further We have platforms for our employees 1,500 tonnes of CO emissions on an annual opinions to be heard and we value their 6,000 previously long-term basis and improves fuel consumption, and input on how the business is being run.
unemployed have been trained there have been a number of initiatives to Our communication channels include in the repair of electrical improve driver training, including a DVD regular workers councils, where issues are on Driving for theEnvironment.
discussed with representatives from across products.
We also have many other People forums for discussion and we regularly As a specialist retailer committed to the conduct employee surveys which allow best customer service, one of our key management to take a wide range of differentiators and strengths is our people.
We promote the We have over 26,000 employees across health, safety and welfare of both colleagues Europe and we want them all to have and customers across all our sites and satisfying and rewarding careers within we have a team of advisers who monitor the Group.
By respecting and valuing our and report to our Company Secretary on employees we engage their talents and these issues.
abilities to the fullest extent.
We also realise 22 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Last year we relocated our major warehouses Comet in the UK supported Race on Line 1.
The number of days spent on in Belgium and the Czech Republic with which is a project to help 50,000 socially stafftraining much improved working environments for excluded people to get online by 2012, As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important theemployees.
offering a combination of products and that we create a working environment that in-store training, and following a staff vote, is conducive to the recruitment and retention We have established a written Code of Cancer Research UK was selected as of talented staff who have excellent customer Conduct which outlines the ethical standards Comets new charity partner.
service skills and product knowledge.
we expect from all employees of companies within the Group.
This includes both BCC in Holland signed a three-year contract 2.
The number of accidents or injuries permanent and contract staff and any in 2008 with the World Wildlife Foundation to staff external consultants or suppliers we retain.
In return for The provision of a safe and healthy place supplying necessary funds for the foundation, of work for our staff is a primary concern Communities we use the WWF logo to promote energyand key responsibility.
As a Group, we have more than 700 stores, efficient products in its stores.
warehouses and regional and head ofces 3.
The percentage of energy-efficient across 10 European countries and we Vanden Borre and Darty France raise funds A-rated products sold are committed to working with the many through the sale of toy models of their afterEnergy label ratings on fridge freezers help communities this represents.
We work in sales service vans.
our customers choose more efficient models.
partnership with outside organisations to A-rated products use the least amount of address a number of long-standing social Datart in the Czech Republic and Slovakia energy thereby benefiting both our customers issues and we support a range of different has planted a forest of trees and has been and the environment.
working closely with insurers to help those affected by the 2010 oods.
The number of tonnes of packaging Darty France has a long-standing reputation been working with charity ADRA to send six waste collected and recycled for helping the disadvantaged.
Through the pallets of first aid kits to Kenya.
Through our distribution channels and ENVIE programme over 6,000 previously warehouses we can efficiently collect long-term unemployed have been trained Performance criteria our customers waste for recycling.
in the repair of electrical products.
During As part of our commitment to CR, we have 12 months 12 months 12 months a two-year programme, trainees practice set targets and objectives that we expect to 30 April to 30 April to 30 April Continuing Group 2011 2010 2009 on end-of-life products collected from our companies to meet and we review their customers.
Once repaired, these are then appropriateness regularly.
To help us assess Staff training 73,273 85,887 83,023 sold from ENVIE stores at heavily discounted and monitor progress against these targets Accidents injuries 2,063 2,035 1,995 prices.
Darty France annually donates we use key performance indicators in A-rated 38,000 to the Fondation Pasteur Weizman non-financial areas.
The focus for the past products sold 90.6% 90.3% 89.3% for medical research and 70,000 to three financial years has been: Package waste Telemaque, which helps young people from recycled tonnes 46,332 52,876 49,763 disadvantaged homes pursue their education.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 23
