Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements fide La Rue remains committed to Corporate ensuring that its business is managed in a responsible and sustainable way and responsibility is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Sound corporate responsibility CR policies and practices are incorporated in the day to day activities of the business and examples of this from around the Group are described in this section.
Further information about CR policies and initiatives in fide La Rue is available on the Groups website.
In 2010 employee volunteers carried out repairs, decorating and Focus on Malta gardening work at a childrens home The fide La Rue Malta Philanthropic Committee was established in 1988 to offer financial, social and moral support to the community.
Activities such as a cinema day for a local childrens home have now become annual events.
Each Easter employees give up their time and fide La Rue provides materials to help maintain a chosen charitable institution see picture above.
In January 2011 fide La Rue Malta was awarded the Malta Environment Planning Authority Environmental Permit for manufacturing companies.
Commitments under the permit include minimising solvent use and emissions, maximising efficient use of resources, reducing waste, promoting recycling and submitting yearly environmental reports.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 27 Corporate responsibility continued Accountability and management processes Third party partners The Board receives monthly reports on CR issues and is ultimately The Group Third Party Partner team continues to develop and responsible for assessing the impact of these on fide La Rues refine the processes and procedures for the appointment and business and for setting appropriate policies for the Group.
reappointment of distributors, sales agents and consultants.
The Chief Executive is the Board member with designated All applications for appointment, reappointment and renewal responsibility for CR, supported by: of third party partners are managed by this central team which reports directly to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee, which is responsible for the Due diligence undertaken on partners will be extended during day to day management of CR and receives monthly reports the next financial year.
An online training module dedicated to The Risk Committee, which discusses CR at its meetings issues surrounding working with third party partners was launched in the context of monitoring the effectiveness of internal during the year for mandatory completion by employees involved control systems in this activity.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee, whose Health and safety responsibilities include making recommendations on health, fide La Rue recognises its responsibility to safeguard the health safety and environmental strategy and identifying areas and safety of all stakeholders affected by its operations and is for improvement committed to keeping employees safe and secure when they are at work and travelling for work.
This is achieved through clearly Workplace defined responsibilities, good communication and training, hazard Code of Business Principles spotting, risk assessments and by implementing appropriate During the year the Code of Conduct was reviewed and was controls at all facilities.
relaunched in May 2011 as the Code of Business Principles.
By the end of June 2011 it is envisaged that every employee will have None of fide La Rues operations has been prosecuted for infringing attended a senior management presentation on the new code, any health and safety laws or regulations during 2010 11. received a copy of it and acknowledged that it has been read and The Executive Committee and the Board receive confirmation understood.
The code outlines fide La Rues core commitments, that the divisions comply with Group policy and applicable laws what they mean and how they should be implemented at all through external and internal audits, reports and measurement levels within the organisation.
It is supplemented by more detailed against action plans and benchmarking processes.
These reports policies and covers the following areas: are used to develop effective improvement programmes.
Bribery and corruption Fifteen of the sixteen manufacturing units have achieved Conflicts of interest OHSAS18001:2007 certification for their health and safety management system, which is externally audited.
Gifts and hospitality fide La Rue works with its main suppliers and main contractors Health, safety and the environment to ensure their health and safety processes are robust.
This year Employment principles in Sri Lanka and Kenya over 30 managers and supervisors have been trained using the four day Managing Safely IOSH certified Records and reports training course to ensure that they are competent to manage Protecting personal information health and safety to a high standard in their local teams.
Insider trading and confidential information The health and safety KPIs are shown opposite.
The slight rise in the reportable injury rate reflects better reporting in the Cash Competition and anti trust laws Processing Solutions international businesses and flat year on Whistleblowing year performance at Overton mill.
Total days lost due to accidental The Groups whistleblowing procedures enable employees who injuries has reduced by 20 per cent.
The frequency of lost time have concerns about the application of the Code of Business accidents has also reduced.
Principles or business practices within the Group to raise them internally or anonymously through an independently run telephone helpline, the fide La Rue Codeline.
The Board and Audit Committee receive details about any issue raised and how it has been followed up.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews the policy and procedures.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 28 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Health and safety objectives for 2010 11 were: Total days lost For all employees to have some level of health and safety 599 592 training and all supervisory employees to attend certified health 530 and safety training.
During 2010 11 fide La Rue provided over 2,500 health, safety and environment training man days and all employees received an Interlock health and safety booklet To review and update all fire procedures at facilities and monitor 281 test evacuations.
This was achieved 218 For one smaller print facility to achieve OHSAS18001:2007, which was achieved Health and safety objectives for 2011 12 are: restated to include long term absence following injury sustained during 2009 10 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 To hold an Interlock health, safety and environment conference in November 2011 Total lost time accidents To introduce an internal cross site audit programme Including 3 days To maintain a reportable injury rate of 440 or lower 73 Employees 59 The Group employs approximately 4,000 staff in 26 countries.
Training and development 48 During the year the fide La Rue Academy provided a single focal point for a range of core training across fide La Rue to 32 meet specific business needs.
Almost 300 people attended 27 an Academy course this year, in addition to other internal training across the sites globally.
Attendees were drawn from different sites, functions and divisions, increasing internal networking and strengthening relationships.
Key areas of focus were: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Leadership and management Project management and problem solving Annualised reportable injury rate per 100,000 employees Negotiation UK manufacturing average Presentation skills 849 Time management 715 Performance management through honest conversations 526 As part of fide La Rues human resources strategy, the Academy 392 is directly linked with other initiatives including performance and 378 development review PDR rollout and talent reviews.
All those who have been identified for Academy training have been selected through either their PDR, a formal talent review, or to meet a specific business need.
The divisional and Group talent reviews, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 held twice yearly, have led to a more transparent and meritocratic process of selection of people to attend senior leadership or executive courses.
All other forms of personal development are highlighted through the PDR process and discussed with line managers, providing greater awareness and engagement between line management and employees.
During the year 300 employees across a number of UK sites enlisted on a range of National Vocational Qualification NVQ training courses which were fully funded by the UK Government.
The NVQs included Business Improvement Techniques, Customer Services, Business Administration and Leadership and Management.
The Currency Gateshead site is worthy of special mention for the success it has achieved in putting the whole site through the Business Improvement Technique Level 2 as part of its continuous improvement programme.
A safe place to work At year end Bathford mill had achieved 1,240 days without a reportable incident.
The Confederation of Paper Industries the leading organisation working on behalf of the UK paper related industry showed the mill as joint leader in their 2010 safety league table.
Sites at Nairobi, Bolton and Midrand also celebrated over 1,000 days with no reportable accidents.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 29 Corporate responsibility continued The Leading Performance programme designed to enhance Environment leadership capability through effective honest conversations fide La Rue aims to operate in a manner that protects the has now trained over 280 managers across the Currency and environment and prevents pollution, as well as considering Security Products divisions.
This has enabled all those managers the environmental effects of any new projects, when changing to conduct more effective PDR reviews, to have a valuable tool business activities and business processes and when developing to address operational performance issues and to build on the new products.
The environmental policy is communicated across continuous improvement culture.
the Group and a formal environmental management system is in operation, the objective being for all manufacturing sites to be Building on the existing success of the Six Sigma methodology certified to ISO 14001:2004.
Fourteen of the sixteen manufacturing a workplace organisation and housekeeping methodology units have received this certification to date.
already implemented across a number of sites, a pilot online Six Sigma course is currently underway.
None of fide La Rues operations has been prosecuted for infringing any environmental laws or regulations during 2010 11.
Communication fide La Rue communicates regularly with its UK and European works councils.
The UK National Employee Forum and European Employee Forum are both composed of elected employees, management representatives and employee nominated full time Greenhouse gas emissions 000 tonnes as CO2 trade union officers.
4.1 Transport emissions 4.3 5.5 98.5 In 2010 there were two full meetings with the UK Employee 4.2 95.2 Energy and production 4.3 93.1 89.9 Forum.
An annual European Employee Forum was also held.
87.2 emissions Steering group meetings for both forums are held throughout the year and can be called for any special requirements.
Both forums receive formal updates on strategic business performance from senior managers and Executive Committee members.
Open discussion and questions are encouraged.
This year the UK Employee Forum was consulted on the UK salary adjustment policy and the improved security vetting systems.
Regular information on the consultation process regarding the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 transfer of employees following IDS winning the UK Passport contract was also shared with members of the UK Forum.
A joint UK and European Employee Forum is being held for the Water used per gross tonne first time in 2011 to provide an opportunity for information sharing.
of banknote paper 3 m 300 296 The effectiveness of communication processes at Group and 287 281 283 Note: Total water used abstraction plus local site level are regularly reviewed to encourage employee recycled per production tonne of banknote engagement and broaden business understanding.
In addition paper produced at Overton for 2010 11.
Production tonne definition here means to the employee magazine and the intranet, the Chief Executive production tonnes at standard weight hosts regular conference calls in which all employees have the including spoil less any paper trials.
opportunity to participate and ask questions directly.
Equality and diversity fide La Rue is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of its employees in recruitment, training, promotion and in terms and conditions of employment irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial origin, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 nationality, disability or trade union membership.
If an employee becomes disabled when in the Groups employment, full support Recycled and recovered is given through the provision of special training, equipment or solid waste as a percentage other resources to facilitate continued employment wherever of solid waste 73 72 possible.
Managers are required to ensure that employees 71 71 69 understand their responsibility for the active implementation of the Groups policies.
Details of fide La Rues human rights, equal opportunities, anti harassment and stress management policies are available on the Groups website.
To the extent permitted by relevant local laws, the Group monitors data on staff diversity to help it review policies and improve best practice.
A job evaluation exercise has been introduced across the whole Group to ensure fairness and transparency within the business.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 30 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements The Group continues to measure greenhouse gas emissions, Community and charitable donations shown in the graph opposite, following the Greenhouse Gas Around the Group, fide La Rues facilities and factories are widely Protocol, the most widely used international accounting tool for engaged with local communities.
Just two examples are the government and businesses.
This data includes the combustion production of calendars to be sold for the benefit of children of fuels, ie natural gas, fuel oils and purchased grid electricity, suffering from cancer in Dulles, USA and granting the use of employee passenger transport and owned transport energy land for a metal detecting rally to raise money for youth projects consumption.
Following a review, five years of passenger transport in Overton, UK.
emissions have been restated in line with the new 2010 UK Defra fide La Rue is proud to support a variety of charitable causes conversion factors and using averages calculated from latest on a local and international level.
In 2010 11 Group donations spend and distance figures.
fide La Rue believes these figures for charitable purposes amounted to 58,000 2009 10: 96,000, are more representative going forward.
Over 50 per cent of excluding donations made by the fide La Rue Charitable Trust fide La Rues carbon footprint relates to gas and electricity used detailed below.
During the year employees also organised at Overton mill.
The combined heat and power plant operating at fundraising activities to benefit various charities, including the this site, which uses heat recovery to generate steam for the paper provision of 100 emergency ration packs for Sri Lankan flood machines, has been rated good quality under the Governments victims, fundraising for various local hospices in the UK and combined heat and power quality assurance scheme.
Several gaining sponsorship for taking part in the Three Peaks Challenge sites have energy reduction committees and energy reduction in the summer of 2010 in aid of the Haiti earthquake appeal.
initiatives, such as swapping in energy efficient motors and installing energy efficient lighting systems during upgrades, The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme in the UK which have been implemented.
enables employees to make regular donations to charity from their pre tax monthly salary.
Donations are matched by fide La Rue.
Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper produced is partly dependent on the volume, mix and complexity of the paper The fide La Rue Charitable Trust aims to direct funds to appropriate produced.
Due to the production issues experienced during the causes in countries where fide La Rue operates, emphasising year and associated changes in production processes, there educational projects promoting relevant skills, international has been an increase in water used per gross tonne of banknote understanding or relieving suffering.
The Trust also matches funds paper.
The rate of recycled water use at Overton mill has been raised by employees for charitable causes.
During 2010 11, the maintained at c10 per cent of all water used.
At the Sri Lanka Trust distributed 46,000 2009 10: 45,000. facility, a new effluent treatment plant has been installed which Marketplace is now recycling 90 per cent of the water used while meeting Customers new and tighter local discharge requirements.
As part of its commitment to continually improving the products Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage of all and services provided to customers, IDS conducted a short solid waste is dependent on the waste markets.
The questionnaire covered 180 customers and achieved looks for any opportunities for recycling and recovery and various a 48 per cent response rate an 11 per cent increase in responses composting trials are ongoing in the UK.
One continuing challenge compared to a similar activity carried out the previous year.
for the business is the advance of anti counterfeiting features in Feedback and comments were thoroughly reviewed, with team products which by their nature are complex to produce and can briefings taking place across all business functions.
There was an increase in waste at Overton action plans have since been agreed ensuring focus is maintained mill during the year due to the paper production issues.
and that the customer is regularly updated on progress made.
Four UK sites are operating under Climate Change Agreement Suppliers energy policies setting reduction targets, although these could fide La Rue continues to apply a consistent set of procurement be subject to change by the Government.
fide La Rue in the policies and processes to deliver accountability, sustainable value UK has registered under the Carbon Reduction Commitment for money and continuous improvement while enabling the Group Energy Efficiency Scheme and continues to aim to reduce to fulfil its legal and financial obligations and effectively manage energy consumption.
In particular, fide La Rue expects its suppliers to share the Groups CR values and commitment to ISO standards for Examples of environmental achievements on a local and Group HSE performance.
wide level over the last few years include: Overton mill sources cotton waste for use in banknote Reducing natural gas usage at Dulles, USA by 25 per cent papermaking from a few key international suppliers and continues by implementing heat saving initiatives to review these suppliers to ensure they comply with fide La Rues Extending the scope of ISO14001:2004 certification at two sites terms and conditions relating to the United Nations Convention this year to cover the IDS business on Rights of the Child and child labour.
The phasing out of ozone depleting substances at the Malta fide La Rue Security Print at Dunstable has been accredited with the facility, now in its final stages FSC Chain of Custody status by the Forest Stewardship Council.
fide La Rue Sri Lanka won the merit award under the total waste management category at the Geo Responsibility Award ceremony for the achievement of performance and commitment towards managing the environment in a responsible manner Environmental objectives for 2011 12 are: To develop an updated environmental strategy with new targets To maintain the ISO14001:2004 certification programme A target of reducing waste to landfill by 3 per cent each year over the next three years A target 3 per cent energy reduction related to output over the next three years fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 31
