Sustainability Our history is only relevant if it has a future Our business strategy must reflect our broader responsibilities.
Martina King, Chair, Sustainability Committee Sustainability has taken on a number of different meanings in recent years.
For some it is inextricably linked with climate change.
For others it chiefly relates to biodiversity or to resource management.
At Debenhams, we employ a much broader definition of sustainability and see it as the capacity to endure.
Debenhams has been in business for over 230 years, during which Martina King time it has grown into the leading retailer it is today.
We believe that by doing the right things for our stakeholders we can continue to grow I was delighted to be asked to chair the newly formed Sustainability and will be here for the duration.
At the same time, sustainability Committee.
The Debenhams board is committed to living has to be about driving overall business performance, now and in up to our responsibilities as a retailer, an employer, abusiness the future, by increasing sales and profits and by reducing current partner, asteward of the environment and a member of the orpotential costs.
community, inshort to being a responsible business.
Weare also keenly aware of our role as the steward of Debenhams The Sustainability Committee was formed in October 2010 and shareholders investments.
We firmly believe that these aims are includes representatives from a range of disciplines across the entirely complementary and we cannot achieve one without the business in no particular order : buying and merchandising: store other.
In short, our business strategy must reflect our broader operations: supply chain: environmental, energy and building responsibilities and vice versa.
management: logistics and distribution: finance: human resources: communications: risk management: health and safety: and legal.
Amongst its members are some of the businesss most senior executives.
The Committee meets on a quarterly basis, under the chairmanship of Debenhams non-executive director Martina King with the work groups meeting more frequently as required.
 LLP has provided guidance and facilitation and has helped to set the terms of reference for the Committee, aswell as supporting individual work groups as required.
38 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Who are our stakeholders?
The environment It is clear that our business strategy needs to meet the aspirations of We are dependent upon the availability of scarce resources such as many different parties.
In order to achieve this we needed to identify power and fuel, raw materials and water.
We are also a producer of who these parties are and what their expectations of Debenhams are.
waste, whether carbon emissions, waste water, packaging or general We began with the strategy of the business and our aim to be a leading waste streams.
It is our responsibility to ensure that our consumption international, multi-channel retailer.
We also looked at our business of resources and production of waste is proportionate and efficient.
model to identify key inputs, outputs and risks.
We must also ensure compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and regulation.
Our customers Our customers work hard to afford their Debenhams purchases The community and our strategy puts them at the heart of our decision-making, We should be an active and responsible member of the communities whether it is to give them a better instore experience through store in which we operate.
As a business, we should support local and modernisation or making shopping more convenient through national charities and community groups, both through fundraising increasing the number of multi-channel options available to them.
and volunteering, and we should encourage our employees to We aim to provide customers with a broad choice of products, great participate in local community activities.
quality, outstanding value for money and catwalk design at high The sustainability project street prices.
We need to meet their expectations that every one of Over the past year, Debenhams has undertaken a major review of our products is manufactured in a factory which is socially ethical and the issues which are relevant to ensuring the sustainability of the quality assurance compliant.
We also need to support our customers business.
This includes current issues and those which, although not in their own efforts to make their lives more sustainable, for example an immediate concern, are likely to become increasingly relevant by helping them to reduce their energy usage through lower inthe future.
temperature washing or waste production through less packaging.
We actively seek the views of our customers as understanding their The initial methodology involved a synthesis of three key areas: needs is paramount to our ability to achieve a sustainable future We analysed mega trends to determine the business implications and use customer closeness groups and our customer experience for Debenhams.
These include climate change, energy and programme, amongst others, to do this.
carbon management, water scarcity, resource scarcity, ethical Our suppliers consumerism, pollution control, demographics and population One of Debenhams key differentiators is our unique portfolio of own shifts, land use and biodiversity.
brands, including Designers at Debenhams.
To fulfil this potential We undertook a comprehensive review of current and future we require our suppliers to provide us with exceptional quality legislation and regulations in areas that affect our business such atexceptional prices.
We want our suppliers to support us, their own as the Carbon Reduction Commitment, REACH, WEEE Directive, people and the environment.
Debenhams customers, employees Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive, BREEAM, Better Cotton and shareholders must have confidence in our supply chain values Initiative, Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive and and execution.
Our suppliers must therefore adhere to our Code of UKWaste Strategy.
Conduct and to ensure that their employees are treated with dignity and are not exploited or discriminated against in any way.
We operate We used the Debenhams risk register see the Risk Management a comprehensive factory approval and audit process to verify ongoing section on pages 32 to 37 to identify the key risks to the successful compliance.
Non-manufacturing suppliers are equally important execution of our business strategy.
to us: those who transport and warehouse goods for us: those who Through this analysis, we identified the most material issues for provide energy and other resources: those who provide financial the business in the short, medium and long-term.
It was clear that services products.
To achieve our multi-channel goals, we must also they fell into four principal areas and so the next stage of the project work very closely with our technology partners.
saw the creation of four working groups: sustainable sourcing: Our employees environment: logistics and distribution: and people.
Each work Delivering our customer proposition instore by inspiring and helping group is chaired by a senior executive and comprises experts in the our customers relies on the commitment of our 30,000 employees most relevant disciplines from across the business.
The groups have whose hard work ensures that we can all enjoy a successful future.
created a sustainability materiality analysis for their area of focus Our employees are crucial to helping Debenhams grow and and developed appropriate action plans and strategies.
They are they should be rewarded for the success that they help to build.
working to determine the key performance indicators we should be Weare committed to ensuring that every individual receives fair measuring and reporting to ensure the success of their work.
The and equitable treatment, regardless of their differences.
We have next phase, which is still ongoing and will be reported to shareholders along-established reputation for developing our employees and are next year, isthe development of a robust set of targets and verification very proud that the majority of management appointments come processes.
You can read more about the work of the four working from within the business.
Skills, progression and opportunities for groups overleaf.
people to develop new capabilities are extremely important to us.
Sustainability reporting Most of all, we need to give our employees throughout the business Going forward, Debenhams principal method of communication for the skills andtools to inspire and help our customers every day.
sustainability issues will be online.
A new sustainability website will Our shareholders be available during 2012.
This will enable us to update stakeholders Shareholders have provided the capital required to fund our on a regular basis with new initiatives around the business.
They should have confidence in their investment reported in last years Sustainability Review, including the carbon in Debenhams, driven by our strategy, longevity, commitment to footprint analysis, health and safety statistics and employee statistics product and service excellence and a robust control environment.
has been updated and is available in the Corporate Responsibility section of www.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Sustainability continued Work groups The four Sustainability Committee work groups report on their initial findings Sustainable sourcing Environment A unique and differentiated product offer is a key part of The remit of the environmental group is to minimise risks to the Debenhams business strategy.
In order to achieve this we need a business of non-compliance with current and future environment robust sustainable supply chain strategy that ensures our products regulation and legislation and to seek ways to reduce the impact are available to customers in a timely manner and at competitive Debenhams has on the environment in a cost effective way.
It is critical that we meet our customers expectations of members have focused on two areas in the first instance: energy great quality through ethical sources.
The main focus of the sustainable sourcing group has been to Energy: a thorough review of all relevant legislation and regulation identify the components of our merchandise sourcing strategy, has been undertaken, with particular emphasis on that relating to assess the significance of the risks associated with those to climate change, in order to determine our long-term energy components and to update the sourcing strategy in order to strategy.
Operationally, the group is focused on two types of reduce or eliminate those risks as necessary.
This has given us the initiatives.
First, those which could reduce energy usage without following areas of initial focus: requiring additional investment, for example reducing the amount of overnight activity in store.
Secondly, initiatives which will Assessing country based sourcing on geographical, social, require capital expenditure to achieve a reduction in energy use, political and economic factors such as the installation of energy efficient lighting.
Reducing component costs Waste: Debenhams operations produce two main types of waste: Fabric management product waste and not-for-resale waste.
Key deliverables are cutting the total amount of waste Debenhams produces, sending Maintaining quality and value less waste to landfill and reducing hazardous waste streams and Continued focus on exit margin customer waste including carrier bags and packaging.
Systems investment to support our strategy Logistics and distribution People The logistics and distribution group has identified three key risks Customers, employees and communities are the priority for the to sustainability.
Ensuring our supply chain is sufficiently robust so that goods The group has focused on a number of areas: always flow Ensuring that Debenhams attracts, keeps and grows the best Minimising fuel and freight cost increases talent in the industry Managing carbon emissions and waste Undertaking an audit of our charitable work The first step in ensuring the robustness of the supply chain has Developing a framework for community involvement been to consolidate and prioritise the relevant risk register.
The The focus of the group has led to a new induction programme group is also working with our buying and merchandising teams forthe 12,000 new starters who join Debenhams each year to engage their support for this and to identify synergies.
andthe launch of the Debenhams Vocational Qualification Minimising fuel and freight costs has been a priority for many years forstore employees.
and good progress has been made, for example by introducing a fuel Following the charity audit, the Debenhams Charitable and cost efficient fleet and by relamping the DCs.
The group considers Foundation is to be created through which all our charitable giving this to be very much part of our dayjob.
The group is working to ensure we capture data from as much A new community champion programme has been launched of the end-to-end process of moving goods from point of for our stores which gives store managers and their teams a manufacture to point of sale or in the case of multi-channel framework for building and growing their contribution to the delivery to the customer as possible.
Since first reporting carbon communities in which they operate.
emissions in 2008, the scope has increased every year.
The 2011 analysis is available on www.
40 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Kids for Kids Day Debenhams was pleased to support NSPCCKids for Kids Day.
We sold a range ofexclusive T-shirts designed by some of our Designers at Debenhams, the proceeds of which went to the charity.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41
