Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 | Environmentally friendly choices Dignity takes seriously the responsibility of managing global resources and endeavors to source products ethically and with consideration to the environment.
As a result, we offer a range of alternative, biodegradable coffins, containers and scatter tubes made from sustainable materials and can arrange burials in designated woodland sites.
In our communities Last November, many Dignity funeral locations and Our aim: Everyone within Dignity is committed to not only crematoria chose to support the Royal British Legions making a real difference to our clients but also to improving poppy appeal and remember those serving in the Armed the welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
Forces that have given their lives defending Britain and its To demonstrate our values and principles our staff have interests.
Staff at East London Crematorium alone raised supported hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs 2,000 by holding a Remembrance Day Service.
By listening to and understanding the needs of local communities our staff are able to respond In addition to this a war memorial at East London by providing help where it is most needed.
Crematorium, to local civilians that lost their lives during the air raids of World War 2, has also been completely For example, the staff at W S Harrison & Son in North renovated and housed in a new granite memorial.
Tyneside have ensured the survival of a local bowls club that had existed since 1922 by providing sponsorship and In December, E F Edwards of Birmingham helped supporters financial support that offset their recent increase in running of Aston Villa to mark the centenary of the death of William costs.
Without Dignitys help local residents were facing the McGregor, founder of The Football League and Chairman closure of the club and the social centre it provides.
Dignity of their club during its formative years.
Dignity offered to has also continued to support many other bowling clubs cover the shortfall in funds raised by Villa supporters who and tournaments throughout the UK.
were looking to restore McGregors grave and provided a limousine and chauffeur to transport high profile guests During the past year Dignity has continued to support grass to the Service of Re-Dedication at a local church and roots sport by providing training equipment and kit to many reception at Villa Park.
youth football and cricket teams across the UK.
Both of these initiatives provide different sectors of the local community with a focal point for socialising and healthy exercise.
The Dignity Easter Egg Challenge once again proved popular with staff at our funeral locations with thousands of chocolate gifts being collected and distributed to local hospices, childrens hospital wards, special needs centres and others less fortunate.
At the heart of our local communities Everyone at Dignity is committed to making a real difference not only to our clients but also to improving the welfare of all who live in the communities we serve.
Our staff support hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs and events every year.
Left: Joanne Tolley, Funeral Service Arranger Administrator, at a Macmillan Coffee Morning held at the Dignity funeral location in Droitwich Spa.
