Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 | Health and Safety training number 15 102 143 0 20 4 0 60 80 100 120 140 160 Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 15 Employees with IOSH qualification: 102 Employees with CIEH qualification: 143 Dignity also has 102 managers or officers that have Environment successfully completed the Institution of Occupational Our aim: Maintaining the quality of the environment in Safety and Health IOSH course.
which we all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas of the business operate in accordance with the Groups There are also 143 employees that have completed the environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our Chartered Institute of Environmental Health CIEH Working operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce Safely one-day course.
this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
Effective health and safety management Our business continues to have a low environmental Health and safety performance is measured in two ways.
impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
Proactive monitoring Health and safety is proactively monitored via quarterly Dignity and its employees undertake to act whenever return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance, necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current line manager observations of how tasks are performed environmental legislation and we continue to review the and regular reports to the Board.
policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste generated is properly disposed of in accordance with Reactive monitoring current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste Investigating accidents, collation and analysis of statistics wherever this is practical.
and ill-health investigation reactively monitors health and safety.
Minimising our impact on the local environment Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility in East Yorkshire, Training programmes and initiatives has gained ISO14001 accreditation.
To achieve the NEBOSH qualifications employees had to study current legislation and best practice over a year-long ISO14001 is an internationally accepted standard that course and successfully complete a written two-hour sets out how you can go about putting in place an effective examination plus a two hour practical assessment.
The standard is designed to address the delicate balance between maintaining Over 700 Dignity employees attended the Manual Handling profitability and reducing environmental impact.
By attending this course it is intended that our employees will have a greater appreciation Dignitys voluntary application for ISO14001 began in of the risks of any manual handling required by their role June 2010 with an assessment of the environmental with the objective of reducing the number of injuries impact of the business from the sourcing of raw materials incurred by our Funeral Service Operatives.
to emissions to land, air and water during manufacture Prioritising health and safety Dignity is committed to the 260 prevention of accidents.
Procedures and training are regularly reviewed 260 members of staff have now completed a health and safety and updated to ensure that staff minimise any risks associated with course.
12% Left: The Health & Safety Regional We have seen approximately a Managers meeting at Dignitys Head 12 per cent reduction in the number Office in Sutton Coldfield.
of accidents reported per 1,000 employees over the last three years.
