Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 06 | Dedicated to the local communities we serve Serving local communities Our history for generations Dignity is a British company and is the leading provider of funeral related services in the UK.
We have a rich and proud heritage and our oldest funeral location was established in 1812 and our oldest crematorium in 1903.
Many of our businesses have been serving their local communities for generations.
1812 1848 1855 1857 1857 1876 1880 1884 George S Munn J Rymer Funeral Ginns & Gutteridge, Lawrence Funeral E Finch & Sons, Beckenham J H Kenyon, London Frederick W Paine, & Co, Glasgow Service, York Leicestershire Service, Halifax Aldershot Cemetery, Kent James H Kenyon London George S Munn &Co.
In 1848, James Ginns Funeral In 1857, John In 1857, Emmanuel Beckenham opened his first Charles Paine is Dignitys oldest Rymer founded the Directors was listed Lawrence established Finch established Cemetery, the oldest funeral location on opened his first funeral directors and family business in in a local trade his family business, E Finch & Sons on cemetery operated Edgware Road in funeral location in is situated on the premises very close directory in 1855.
J Lawrence & Sons, the High Street of by Dignity, opened 1880.
The business Station Road, New south side of Glasgow.
By In the early 20th in Halifax, Yorkshire.
It includes expanded to include Malden, in 1884.
They have been 1925, Jack Rymer, century there were They produced the 20th century the resting place of five branches in Ten years later the providing funeral then aged 15, was several competing furniture but the business built cricketing legend northwest London business was passed services to their managing the funeral businesses occasionally made its reputation by W G Grace.
and became one on to his eldest son, local community business after the bearing this name coffins for local conducting military of the most wellFrederick W Paine, since 1812. death of his father.
all run by different families.
By 1945, funerals and known names in who opened two J Rymer Funeral members of the the Lawrence family pioneering many new the profession, further funeral Service joined the Ginns family, until were arranging initiatives, including conducting funerals locations over the Dignity network in they amalgamated enough funerals the first motorised for the Royal Family, next few years.
1994 and today is with another local to open a chapel hearse in the area.
politicians and other managed by the funeral director and of rest.
sixth generation of Ginns & Gutteridge the Rymer family.
Over 2,450 people dedicated Our people to client service excellence We are funeral people and this is all we do.
Our people come from the local towns and cities they serve or from families that have been in the funeral profession for generations and all are dedicated to delivering client service excellence.
