Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report Our business has relationships with many stakeholders and A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee has been with society at large, and we recognise that our business identified as accountable for each of these priorities.
performance could be affected if we neglected these relationships.
Accordingly, we take our responsibilities to our Dixons Retail operates in different countries, each with differing stakeholders seriously.
We aim to have policies and procedures stakeholder needs.
Accordingly, the Groups corporate in place, which balance the expectations of our customers, responsibility efforts are largely organised on a local level.
The shareholders, employees and the wider community.
Corporate Responsibility Committee is aware of the good responsibility work carried out by the Groups overseas businesses and is working towards improving reporting Corporate responsibility management framework initiatives with a view to reporting its Group-wide responsibility The Group Finance Director, Nicholas Cadbury, is the Board efforts going forward.
member responsible for corporate responsibility matters at Dixons Retail.
He is supported in this task by the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which comprises senior executives The Corporate Responsibility Committee has established the following key performance indicators, which enables it to from key business areas and is chaired by Helen Grantham, monitor performance against the priorities that it has set: the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee met four times during the period Colleague diversity age, gender and ethnicity of its employees under review and a summary of some of the key matters Health and Safety employee and customer accidents discussed are listed below: and injuries Ongoing evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities and Ethical supply chain audits identification of areas where the Corporate Responsibility Customer satisfaction Committee needs to enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place: Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled Assessing the reporting structures in place and determining Business waste recycled changes to be implemented when gathering information in Group carbon emissions respect of the key performance indicators: Contributions to the community Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy: Reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Business ethics upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms The way we do business at Dixons Retail is important to us and to ensure compliance.
forms a part of our corporate responsibility objectives.
Our shared values are to: Our approach to corporate responsibility operate with honesty and integrity: The Group recognises that the most significant responsibility give outstanding service to our customers: issues concern its core business activities and follows the Association of British Insurers guidelines in its approach to respect our colleagues: corporate responsibility.
Accordingly, Dixons Retail seeks to continually seek ways to improve performance: and identify the risks and opportunities which are most significant work together to beat our competition.
to its business rather than addressing a standardised agenda.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee maps onto a matrix We operate an Ethical Conduct Policy, which applies to all employees.
the risks and opportunities that are specific to the Dixons Retail business and the retail sector.
This allows us to identify our Customer services main exposures and most significant opportunities, and At Dixons Retail, we are proud to serve thousands of customers address how to deal with these issues.
During the period every year in our stores and online.
In the tough economic under review, our priorities included the following: environment of the last few years, our customers have looked to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, to us to provide greater value, choice and service and we have colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations: reinvigorated our business model accordingly.
Our customers to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding have told us what a great shopping experience feels like and we workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in have integrated this into our Customer Plan.
The Customer Plan the ongoing improvement of customer service levels: discussed in more detail in the Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 7 is a series of programmes with the objective of to improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning: improving the shopping and post-shopping experience of our to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs customers.
During the period under review, these programmes and raise revenue through improved waste recycling: have involved training of our store colleagues in FIVES, Dixons the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, Retails five point customer engagement tool, continuing to achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with transform our store layouts, simplifying our shopping websites products sourced from manufacturers who are audited and increasing our product range.
Great customer service is key against our ethical requirements: to the success of our business and is measured through regular mystery shopping and exit surveys as well as customer feedback to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation received via our call centre and service colleagues.
Key to product reuse and recycling: and performance indicators on customer satisfaction are combined an appropriate community giving policy, which complements on a monthly basis into a customer dashboard, which is regularly our interaction with the communities in which we work.
reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility Committee, as well as the Executive Committee and the Board.
Dixons Retail plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Performance Review 23 -- 35 Directors Report Performance Review As part of our commitment to delivering customer service to Carbon footprint management the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that our Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management programme, communications with customers are clear and that the information which aims to reduce the Groups carbon footprint.
As part of the we present them with is accurate and not misleading.
We maintain mandatory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency compliance with trading standards and legal requirements.
Scheme, the business has introduced programmes that have helped Our policies and procedures integrate those standards into us to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment whilst our daily work.
improving efficiency and saving costs.
A significant proportion of the cost savings made have been reinvested into the next phase of our Supplier relationships energy management programme.
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major international brands, which have their own strong ethical and Dixons Retail is dedicated to reducing its carbon footprint environmental policies in place.
by reducing energy consumption throughout its operations, minimising and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions The Group operates an Ethical Sourcing Policy based on the and reducing the packaging of its products.
We seek to source Social Accountability 8000 criteria.
Suppliers of our own brand products from all our suppliers that meet all industry standards products are audited prior to selection and rated on a traffic light and are as energy efficient as practicable.
Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets or improve the environmental performance of our own brand exceeds all our standards.
Amber status indicates that some of products throughout their life-cycle by systemic integration the minimum standards required have not been met and Red of environmental aspects at an early stage in product design.
status means that a supplier fails significantly to meet our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards.
Our own product supplier audits are Energy management carried out with a view to assisting our suppliers in improving A substantial initiative is underway to reduce energy usage in our their working practices.
Where no improvements are made, we UK stores through the implementation of an energy management will move to fide-list that supplier from our supplier list.
This initiative looks at the demand from lighting, of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the period under heating, cooling and the display products in-store and optimises review are detailed below.
the building management systems, where installed, to maximise efficiencies.
Over 80% of our total electricity consumption is monitored and reported on a daily basis giving us the ability to Performance Indicators 2010 11 2009 10 manage our electricity consumption, reducing our environmental Green 0 6 impact as well as our costs.
Dixons Retail store colleagues are Amber 136 148 currently undergoing energy awareness training to help them Red 75 51 better control and reduce their energy usage.
Total factories audited 211 205 fide-listed Not approved 72 39 Waste management Reducing the impact of packaging waste and increasing the Under the Renewal and Transformation plan, we have redefined volume of material recycled is a key opportunity for the business our own brand product range.
In order to ensure value and as well as good for the environment.
In August 2010, we rolled out choice, this year we have significantly increased the number Dry Mixed Recyclate to all our UK stores and distribution centres.
of suppliers we interact with.
This has presented us with the Our primary waste contractor now recycles the plastics and challenge of an increase in the number of audits we undertake cardboard that we collect, which has resulted in an increase in our and the consequences of this increase are reflected in the table recycling rate and a corresponding reduction in our landfill waste.
above, particularly with the number of suppliers classified as Red.
We have worked with these factories to improve their At Dixons Retail, we take responsibility for the electrical products working practices.
Where this is not possible, they have not that we place on the market seriously, especially when those been approved or have been fide-listed as appropriate.
In accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations, we provide an Environment in-store and home collection take-back service to customers Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage enabling them to return their WEEE free of charge.
the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices: fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes: and waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices.
Dixons Retail plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste Employee diversity 2010 11 2009 10 2010 11 2009 10 UK 73% 67% Female 28% 33% Nordics 91% 91% Male 72% 67% Full-time 65% 67% Not including WEEE.
Data for Denmark, Sweden and Norway only.
Part-time 35% 33% Ethnic minority non national 26% 27% Transport and distribution Aged over 50 11% 7% Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products we sell Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or voluntarily record this information.
means our fleet of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting products around the country.
The Group seeks to reduce the Training and development environmental impact of delivering its products by efficient route Our personal and career development processes are designed to planning to avoid unnecessary mileage, using rail freight where appropriate, increasing vehicle load and making use of empty ensure all our people have the skills to meet the requirements of their roles and to thereby contribute to our Customer Plan.
Our vehicles on return journeys.
store colleagues have all been trained in FIVES, our bespoke sales training programme, and have received further training on service Fleet carbon emissions under our KNOWHOW brand.
Each employee has a personal Tonnes of CO produced 2010 11 2009 10 2 appraisal and development plan, including an assessment of their UK home delivery fleet 7,830 8,250 performance together with their line manager on at least an annual UK retail fleet 15,088 15,750 basis.
Nordics delivery fleet 11,267 8,942 Total 34,185 32,942 Employee communications Dixons Retail uses a variety of internal communication channels to ensure that all colleagues are kept informed of operational Workplace developments.
These include regular town-hall meetings, intranet Our employees postings, executive blogs and e-mail communications.
We have a At Dixons Retail, we recognise that our people are the key to great way of keeping our colleagues involved in the development delivering customer service.
We value and respect them and of our business by informing and consulting with them through endeavour to engage their talents and abilities to the fullest our Employee Forums.
Each major business unit in the UK extent.
We want to be recognised as a good employer aiming to has its own Employee Forum composed of independently reward people fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal elected employee representatives.
The topics covered are development and training.
Our culture supports the discovery of wide ranging and include customer service, business efficiency new and better ways of working, two-way communication and and re-organisation, and performance improvement.
the speedy resolution of any concerns or queries.
Health and Safety Pay and benefits at Dixons are attractive and conducive to the Dixons Retail maintains a strong commitment to health and recruitment and retention of talented people.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its of share plans, we encourage all employees to build a personal business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure stake in the business.
that its activities do not harm our customers or our colleagues.
Dixons Retail operates a Health and Safety Policy and each area At Dixons Retail, we work to achieve high standards in employment of the business routinely carries out risk assessments and audits practices.
We have a comprehensive suite of employee policies and to ensure continuous update of the Policy and adherence to it.
procedures, in which we set out our responsibilities and obligations to our colleagues.
These policies include procedures covering During the period under review, we undertook a complete review grievance resolution, bullying and harassment, diversity and equal of operational safety and processes with a particular emphasis opportunities.
The UK & Ireland business groups policy on Equal on training and management control.
Aligned with the use of Opportunities states that no employee should suffer discrimination accident data and root cause analysis, this has made a in respect of disability, gender, sexual orientation, age, religious significant contribution towards the reduction of high risk high belief, race, colour, nationality, marital status or any other reason.
cost accidents throughout the business and a 10% reduction in These policies apply to the recruitment, training and career customer and employee accidents in stores.
Plans are in place development of all colleagues.
Colleague diversity in terms of age, for further accident reduction and cost saving measures for gender and ethnicity remains a key performance indicator of ours 2011 12. and we report on these below.
Our key performance indicator for health and safety issues is the number of injuries and accidents sustained by our customers and colleagues, progress against which is reported to the Corporate Responsibility Committee on a quarterly basis.
Dixons Retail plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Performance Review 23 -- 35 Directors Report Performance Review Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries 2010 11 2009 10 Number of accidents or injuries reported 985 945 Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 46 41 Data for UK and Ireland.
Community Community involvement Given the difficult economic environment experienced across Europe, the charitable activities in the UK were refocused in 2009 to reflect lower levels of fund raising activity.
The programme continues the theme of improving access to technology for disadvantaged and disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage with their local communities by supporting local charities.
While colleagues can support a charity of their choice, the Group has selected two national charities that colleagues can choose to support, Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, who are working locally with colleagues to support their fundraising efforts.
Under the new programme our colleagues have participated in many local and national activities, including the Phone Pledge Evening for Red Nose Day at our KNOWHOW Customer Contact Centre at Sheffield where over 100 colleagues took part in raising over 118,000.
Colleagues are also invited to apply for a grant from the DSG international Foundation the Groups registered charitable trust to support their fund raising activities, subject to certain criteria.
Charitable donations made by the Foundation Amount given 2010 11 5,000 2009 10 12,000 Key performance indicators The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on the Groups UK and Nordic businesses.
The Committee recognises that it needs to work towards extending the use and monitoring of these performance criteria throughout the rest of the Group, with a view to improving the reporting of the Groups corporate responsibility efforts going forward.
Nicholas Cadbury Executive Director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility Dixons Retail plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
