Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 34 eMplOyees Everything of real value to our customers and shareholders produced cORPORATE by Domino comes from the people within the business.
Exceptional results and performance is a product of the skills, abilities, creativity, knowledge and efforts of highly motivated employees.
SOcIAL We aim to employ a workforce reflecting the diversity of our customers and communities in which we operate.
Our employment RESPONSIBILITY policies, including a commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals, regardless of age, sex, religion, disability, marital status, race, ethnicity, nationality, or sexual orientation.
REPORT The Equal Opportunity Policy can be viewed on our website.
Nigel Bond, Managing Director, and Vicki Sanderson, Human resources Director, are responsible for employee matters.
In our Group Headquarters, there were 585 employees out of atotal673 Uk employees, with a further 1,546 in other Group companies worldwide.
During the year, we established various key performance metrics on employment in the Groups Uk operations Domino firmly believes that corporate responsibility is integral as summarised below.
In 2012 our aim is to extend this analysis across tobusiness success, and we are committed to the welfare of our the whole Group.
stakeholders including our communities, employees, environment, value chain and shareholders.
Domino expects every member of staff to take individual responsibility GROUP HEADQUARTERS EMPLOYEES for their performance and to work together to achieve these goals.
BY GENDER envirOnMent cOMMunit y lOcal cOMMunity DOMINOS 77% 23% GENDEr SPLIT waste & eMissiOns energy & prOduct suppliers, charity resOurces lifecycle custOMers & fundraising distributOrs GENDEr SPLIT OF Uk EMPLOYEES IN THE 76% 24% MANUFACTUrING 1 SECTOr value health & safety 0 20 40 60 80 100 chain Percentage of gender split MALE MarKet accOunting FEMALE Our peOple leadership practices investOrs 1 July September 2011.
In 2011, womens salaries on average in the Group Headquarters were nearly equal to that of men see opposite, when compared wOrKpl ace sharehOlders across similar roles and labour grades.
The average, for the Uk as a 2 whole, this year was 80 per cent.
This year marks a significant step forward in our business.
In addition 2 Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings, Office for National Statistics, 23 November 2011 to the creation of more formalised corporate responsibility policies, http: www.
uk ons rel ashe  we are also making improvements to our data collection procedures.
html Though we have only been able to include metrics for the Uk in this years report, the described policies and actions, unless otherwise stated, apply across the Group.
Data specific to the Uk is noted as such, and we plan to publish global, Group-wide data next year.
Further information on our corporate structure can be found onpage3.
2011 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 It is our policy to provide equally to all staff training and career development for growth within the business and to explore SALARY COMPARISON OF WOMEN TO objectively, through performance appraisal, opportunities for MEN AT GROUP HEADQUARTERS employee advancement.
The Groups policy is that each member ofstaff will be appraised on an annual basis in combination with an exchange of views that takes place between job holders and their 100% 120% immediate manager.
Our most recent data shows that 89 per cent 90% 100% ofemployees received at least one performance review in 2011.
80% 80% 70% envirOnMent 60% The Group recognises that climate change is becoming a risk to 60% 50% business.
reduced availability of raw materials andresource supplies, 40% 40% unpredictability of weather patterns and rising temperatures at 30% manufacturing sites, decrease in economic prosperity of our value 20% 20% chain and increased customer demand for product sustainability are 10% all highly probable outcomes.
To combat this, we areemploying a 0% 0% number of measures.
Members of staff have been employed specifically to look after and advise on these issues.
We arebeing more selective with our suppliers, calling for increasingly stringent Department sustainability criteria, to ensure they have evaluated and planned for FEMALE EMPLOYEES similar risks.
We are also joining industry groups and initiatives, such MALE EMPLOYEES as the Carbon Disclosure Project, to increase ourknowledge and 1 AVErAGE SALArY OF WOMEN TO MEN BY DEPArTMENT awareness, as well as allow customers full transparency into our OVErALL AVErAGE SALArY OF WOMEN TO MEN efforts.
New products are being evaluated for their environmental impacts as we begin incorporating life cycle analysis into our research 1 As compared across comparable job types and salary grades.
We strive to grow in our understanding of all of these issues.
We take diligent measures to ensure good working conditions recognising our potential impact, Domino strives for Group-wide.
Employees and Domino representatives are expected at  of our natural environment, including all times to act honestly, respectfully and in accordance with our Ethics thatwithin communities local to Domino facilities.
Our Managing Policy available on our website in business activities.
Director is responsible for environmental matters and chairs the Environmental Steering Group to monitor compliance with our Our benefits package is designed to respond to the needs of Environmental Policy, which is available on the website.
We operate employees at every stage of life.
Standard provisions include annual arobust environmental management system to ensure environmental leave, bonus schemes, parental and sick leave as well as service awards.
issues are integrated into our business processes andpractices and Group Headquarters also provides private health insurance, childcare we publicly report on several key metrics.
vouchers, travel insurance, gym membership and retail discounts as well as a salary sacrifice scheme to purchase environmentally efficient cars.
Domino manufacturing plants in the Uk, USA and China, subsidiaries The Group provides Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn option inthe Uk, Spain, France and The Netherlands, as well as Wiedenbach, schemes, allowing qualifying employees to purchase Group shares.
are all certified to ISO 9001 as audited by theBSI Group.
Dominos printer plant in China and fluid plants in the Uk, China and the USA The Health and Safety policy, prepared in accordance with all relevant have achieved ISO 1400 accreditation for environmental management legislation, aims to safeguard the welfare of all persons who may in any and improvement, also as certified bytheBSI Group.
We are actively way be affected by Dominos actions.
We operate an audit process investigating development of newproducts and processes with across all Group locations and local management are responsible for improved sustainability and environmental performance through ensuring strict compliance with our internal standards.
Our Group lifecycle analysis and othermethods.
Headquarters office provided a total of 355 hours of Health and Safetyinduction training to new hires this year.
Domino encourages all employees to participate in activities that aim tominimise the Groups environmental impact, and we support several Domino believes effective employee engagement is particularly initiatives within the workplace, including employee-led Green Teams.
important in achieving our business objectives.
We encourage opendiscussion on the status of the business in all our operations, andsite management provide briefings and updates on local and Group performance.
In the Uk, at our largest site, the National Employee Council, a company-wide question and answer session where an Executive Director is available for enquiries, meets quarterly.
Domino isalso proud of its employee-run Sports and Social Club, who organise activities outside of the workplace for employees and their families, such as sight-seeing trips, theatre and cinema outings, orteam-building and sporting events.
Board Senior Management Management Technical & Professional Sales Service Administration Production Percentage of headcount Womens salary as percentage of mens Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 36 cORPORATE SOcIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT cONTINUED GROUP HEADQUARTERS ENERGY USE GROUP HEADQUARTERS WASTE USE 14 0.40 0.35 12 0.30 10 0.25 8 0.20 6 0.15 4 0.10 2 0.05 0 0.00 1 2010 2011 2010 2011 Year Year PAPEr AND CArDBOArD rECYCLED ELECTrIC GAS WOOD WASTE rECYCLED GENErAL WASTE LANDFILL 1 2011 data partially complete.
GROUP HEADQUARTERS WATER USE cOMMunity Domino is an active member of the communities in which we operate and aims at all times to be a good neighbour.
It is the Groups policy to 14 work toward improvement of its local communities.
All employees and 12 managers have an obligation to ensure that their personal behaviour amongst the public reflects this policy, ensuring appropriate, ethically- 10 minded contributions to our communities overall well being.
8 This year, we held 12 company awareness days in the Uk raising money 6 for organisations such as Children in Need, Guide Dogs for theBlind, 4 and Macmillian Cancer Support.
Approximately 50 employees reported 2 volunteering their personal time for other local organisations.
These efforts raised over 24,000 for charitable causes.
0 2011 Year CHARITY TYPES SUPPORTED BY GROUP HEADQUARTERS IN 2011 In 2011, we completed our first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project, achieving a Disclosure Score of 58 for our operations in the 10 Uk, USA and China.
This important activity helped us identify areas for 9 improvement in how our business contributes to and is influenced by 8 climate change.
We are committed to both increasing our disclosures 7 in these areas and growing in our understanding of our own impacts.
6 Our CDP disclosures are available on www.
5 4 Nearly all large Domino sites worldwide regularly recycle waste, 3 rather than sending it to landfill.
In the Group Headquarters, 2 cardboard, paper, electronics, metal, fluorescent tubing, aluminium 1 cans, plastic bottles and cups, batteries and printer cartridges are all 0 recycled, resulting in an average of 30 per cent of our waste going to recycling.
Next year, we are implementing a further improvement to our recycling system.
Medical Sports Welfare Aid Relief Animals Arts Education Community 3 Water per capita m Energy per capita kWh Waste per capita tonnes 000 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37 We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and align ourselves with all relevant legislation including the recent Uk Bribery Act.
Wedo not make contributions of any kind to political parties.
Our comprehensive Ethics Policy stipulates each Domino employees individual responsibility to deal ethically with our customers and suppliers, fellow employees and the general public.
value chain We are committed to ethical behaviour throughout our value chain.
Being a group with a complex and diverse supply chain, we operate inmany areas of the world where human rights violations are more likely.
This is a risk to our business in terms of reputation and our responsibility to treat people fairly.
To deal with this, our procurement management teams regularly audit suppliers operating in countries deemed high risk for violations in areas such as forced or child labourand other abuses.
All suppliers are contractually required to follow the Domino Supplier Standard, which delineates expected ethical standards.
Domino is also committed to effective engagement with customers.
Dominos policy is to comply with all competition and trade regulation laws, to use only ethical methods to market Domino products, and torefrain from disparaging competitors.
Our customer satisfaction procedures ensure we use customers feedback to positively change theway we do business, and we operate a third party certified quality management system, which is designed to ensure the highest levels of customer satisfaction.
Domino holds employees responsible forthe standards of their work and trains all employees in customer service and quality.
We manage our performance in accordance with ISO 9001, as previously mentioned.
sharehOlders The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional shareholders and holds regular meetings with them.
The Company also uses the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity for communication with private shareholders.
It is also Dominos policy to comply, in full, with appropriate legislation specifying standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 47 to 51.
NIGEL BOND GrOUP MANAGING DIrECTOr 12 December 2011 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 38 DRIVING INNOVATIVE TEcHNOLOGY THERMAL TRANSFER PRINTERS V320i cOMMITTED TO ADVANcING OUR INNOVATIONPLATFORMS we are seeing the benefit of the Groups R&D investment in people and in new product platforms with the rapid introduction of additional TTO and Laser printers that extend the range launched last year, soon to be followed by additional Our next generation of primary cIj printers.
Two new class leading inks coders deploy our unique have also been launched, one cIj, the intelligent Technology, i-tech.
other TIj and will form the basis for Ouraim was to make production lines lower maintenance, lower newranges to come.
i-tech hashelped us to achieve that aim.
kIRSTEN SMYTH GROUP TEcHNIc AL DIREcTOR Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 39
