fide Corporate social responsibility report This section recognises our responsibilities and provides an insight into our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activity.
Our commitment to CSR means that we consider our impact on the environment, our employees, the communities in which we operate and all other stakeholders in everything we do.
We operate our business responsibly from the way we run our head office and commissaries and how we stipulate our franchisees run their stores, to how we support our local communities and the products we source.
Community Delivering more to support those we serve Contributing to the communities in which they operate is second nature to our franchisees.
From pizzas at school fetes through sponsored car washes to a whole group of franchisees working together to raise money for a nationwide appeal across the UK and the Republic of Ireland, our franchisees work hard to improve the lives of others and give a little something back to the communities in which they operate.
Without a doubt though, it is the generosity of our customers that has been the highlight of 2011.
In last years CSR report, we spoke Pennies about the Pennies initiative that was launched in November 2010.
This simple system allows our customers to round up their online Pennies has been one of the great successes of 2011.
Dominos orders to the nearest pound and in its first year, they donated an was the launch partner for this initiative in November 2010.
Further information on Pennies can be seen in works like an electronic version of the counter top charity box.
Customers ordering online at www.
co. uk and paying by debit or credit card are given the option at the end of the In addition, we continued to support our two corporate charities transaction to round up to the nearest pound and donate Special Olympics Great Britain SOGB in the UK and Barretstown pennies to charity.
This simple way of raising money has see panel on page 29 in the Republic of Ireland.
We donated proved very effective and, in the first year of operation, raised 25,000 to SOGB and 10,000 to Barretstown with our franchisees an incredible 185,000. in the Republic of Ireland donating an additional 5,000 to the Of the money raised, 75% from customers in England, Wales latter.
Franchisees across the UK have raised further funds for SOGB and Scotland goes to our corporate charity, Special Olympics with athletes attending store openings and special events during Great Britain SOGB.
In Northern Ireland, 75% of the money the year.
Our franchisees in Scotland also supported the Scottish raised goes to the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice.
The Television Appeal see panel on page 28. remaining funds are shared between a number of charities as Throughout our territories, stores regularly support local causes chosen by the Pennies trustees.
and charities to raise money and our in-house magazine, Slice, is full of photos and stories regarding these activities.
It is very For SOGB, the additional funds have allowed a number of new difficult to quantify the amount of money raised in this way, but we projects to come into play including a motor activities training believe it to at least match that donated by the Company.
This programme is aimed at athletes with profound and multiple impairments and the money will help to pay for We also recognise these efforts with our Delivering More award.
In addition, the extra funds This is a quarterly prize of 500 awarded to the store or individual will help SOGB to recruit and reach out to 3,500 new and who we feel has gone beyond the call of duty.
This can be a young athletes.
charitable activity or it might just be an act of random kindness, or a neighbourly gesture.
As well as the four quarterly prizes, one will We are immensely proud of our customers and delighted to also win the annual Delivering More award of an additional 1,000, have been part of such a great scheme that is continuing to presented at our main awards ceremony.
During 2011, the winners grow with more retailers coming on board.
26 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
