Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Corporate social responsibility report Throughout our territories, stores regularly support local causes and charities to raise money and our in-house magazine, Slice, is full of photos and stories regarding these activities.
It is very difficult to quantify the amount of money raised in this way, but we believe it to at least match that donated by the Company.
of the quarterly prizes included a store manager who came across someone about to commit suicide and talked him down, a group of New Head Office stores that, between them, have donated around 10,000 to a local charity and our London stores who received the accolade for the With solar panels, rainwater recycling and extensive tree way they responded to the London Riots see panel on page 28. planting, our new corporate headquarters will help us to keep our carbon footprint in check.
Situated in the West Ashland Being a good neighbour is a core principle at Dominos and we work suburb of Milton Keynes, adjacent to our main commissary, the hard with new and existing stores to ensure that we are just that.
new building has attained the BREEAM Buildings Research Our stores are fitted to high standards of ventilation and soundEstablishment Environmental Assessment Method Excellent proofing and we encourage all our drivers to treat local residents rating.
It makes great use of natural light with large windows with respect and consideration when departing and returning on throughout and has internal bike racks to encourage employees deliveries.
Should a problem ever arise, we expect our store to take the green route to work.
managers to deal with the issue in a timely and conciliatory manner.
Environment Caring for the future of our planet We recognise that reducing energy consumption makes sound business sense, because it saves us money and enables us to help in our own small way to tackle the effects of climate change.
We therefore continue to look at ways to improve energy efficiency in our business to reduce both consumption and energy costs.
During 2011, we moved into our new corporate headquarters which will, going forward, reduce our carbon footprint considerably.
This office, like the commissary beside it that opened in 2010, has been built to the BREEAM Buildings Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method Excellent rating the highest attainable standard.
It includes features such as solar panels, rainwater recycling, makes good use of natural light and has a very sophisticated and environmentally friendly temperature control system.
We have also included features such as indoor housing for bicycles to encourage employees to cycle to work and we have planted numerous trees in the landscaped gardens around the office as part of our continued focus on sustainability.
We continue to look at our supply chain for ways to reduce our carbon footprint and we are working with WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme, the Government-funded initiative, to further reduce food waste and packaging within our business.
We hope to become an early signatory to WRAPs proposed Voluntary Agreement for the Hospitality and Food Service Sector, although there are still a few wrinkles to iron out in advance especially relating to absolute targets, which are difficult to achieve in a rapidly expanding business.
We aim to keep our food waste to a minimum and our three deliveries per week allow our franchisees to quickly adapt to changes in demand.
We constantly review our packaging to see where potential improvements can be made.
Our boxes are already made from 80% recycled cardboard and are 100% recyclable and we continue to look for new ways to improve the sustainability and recyclability of our boxes.
Improving our sustainability credentials is an ongoing task and we continue to look at areas such as vehicle routing.
When we build new stores, they include energy saving devices such as light detectors and lower energy pizza ovens.
In 2011, we installed an Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27
