fide Corporate social responsibility report continued additional 14 WOW ovens, which can deliver gas savings of between 25% and 50% on average, compared to our standard ovens.
Scottish TV Appeal Our franchisees do their bit too in reducing their carbon footprints Scottish pizza lovers tucked in to their favourite Dominos Pizza with some stores using more bicycles and electric bicycles for on Friday 16 September 2011 and raised 7,000 for the STV deliveries.
Appeal, which helps children affected by poverty in Scotland, in Workplace Treating people fairly and with respect the process.
Dominos Pizza stores across Scotland supported Dominos is an equal opportunities employer and is committed to the STV Appeal, which was launched by STV and The Hunter investing in team member advancement through a broad range of Foundation in 2011, by donating 50p from every pizza sold on learning and development initiatives for corporate employees, Friday 16 September.
A fantastic 42 Scottish stores took part in franchisees and in-store teams.
This now includes D-Tube our the mass charity drive and Scottish award-winning online learning system that took the title of E-Learning franchise holder Pat Dunese Programme of the Year at the Training Journal awards in 2011. announced the final fundraising total during a live broadcast from As a Company, we invest a considerable amount of time and the roof of the STV studio in resource in ensuring we provide a safe and healthy environment for Edinburgh.
We position our approach to occupational health and safety within a wider approach to the well-being of our team members.
For example, we provide private medical insurance, an occupational We will continue to identify ways we can support team members at health service, including health checks and annual flu vaccinations, work.
In particular we will focus on managing absence to ensure and take steps to encourage staff to live healthy lives through that we can support employees returning to work at the earliest initiatives such as a corporate gym membership deal.
We are opportunity and to reduce absence wherever possible.
members of the PERKS scheme too which offers discounts on a We also provide support for the 20,000 employees that work in wide range of products and have participated in the Governments our stores.
We also have e-learning tools to provide all the skills cycle purchase scheme.
they need to do their jobs and develop their careers.
In addition, we run an independent team careline for any staff with an issue they feel their franchisee is not dealing with in a timely or professional manner.
Last year, we took an average of 23 calls per week to this careline.
Communication continues to be the key to building the employee relationship and our new corporate headquarters includes a large communal area where we hold a monthly update meeting for all employees.
We are in the process of overhauling our intranet and during the year we also conducted a feedback survey on Slice, our internal magazine.
The response was very positive and, supported by Dominews, which is aimed just at head office staff, we keep employees informed of the progress and process of the Company.
We require all our franchisees to have appropriate people management policies, procedures and documentation in place and to follow best practice in human resource management.
To support this we have preferred outsource providers for HR and health and safety.
We actively participate with local schools to encourage the development and skills of young people.
Activities this year have Helping after the London Riots included work experience placements, school tours within a number The riots that swept through the country, and particularly of our stores, and providing judges and advisors for a Dragons Den London, in August caused problems for many of our stores style initiative for schools in Milton Keynes.
In addition, we also run but an even larger headache for the police officers who serve in a Donate a Day programme where employees are encouraged to take our communities.
Some of our London stores did their bit to a day of the Companys time and use it to support a local charity.
boost morale for the many officers who were working round the clock to keep the peace by ensuring they were walking the beat on a full stomach with the stores compliments.
28 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
