36 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility Our approach to corporate and social responsibility Engaging with our stakeholders Shareholders: We operate our business within a framework of increasingly k Road shows stringent and challenging legislative and regulatory k Face-to-face meetings k Reports and announcements requirements.
We are, however, mindful of the still tougher k Website k Visit programmes expectations held by our wider stakeholder group.
For us, corporate and social responsibility is about achieving a Employees: k Open Forum balance between the commercial and regulatory rigours k Brieng sessions k Staff newsletter of the competitive sector within which we operate and our commitment to our stakeholders as a whole.
Parliament: k Brieng papers k Face-to-face meetings The Board has ultimate control of policies in respect of both k Written and oral evidence k Visit programmes the wider corporate responsibility, such as our business conduct, and our environmental, health and safety programmes.
Government departments: k Face-to-face meetings The Boards policies are implemented by dedicated specialists k Consultation responses who make sure effective processes and procedures are in k Visit programmes k Via trade associations place to assure compliance and to identify and to report on European Union: risks and opportunities.
k Brieng papers k Face-to-face meetings As in previous years we have continued to invest, not only k Via trade associations to comply with environmental and health and safety Local government: k Liaison meetings requirements, but, where practicable, to go further.
In 2011, k Annual consultative committee meeting we retained our presence in the FTSE4Good Index Series, k Exhibitions k Newsletters which is designed to measure the performance of companies Trading counterparties: that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility k Face-to-face meetings standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
k Industry events Local community: k Sponsorship k Fund raising events k Themed campaigns k Visitor programme k Exhibitions k Newsletters Government agents regulators: k Face-to-face meetings k Correspondence and data submission k Via trade associations NGOs and opinion formers: k Face-to-face meetings k Brieng papers Suppliers and customers: k Face-to-face meetings k Contractor briengs k Contractor safety conference Media: k Press releases k Face-to-face meetings k Visit programme 37 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Poor choices could have potentially In 2012, we will see the completion of Business conduct damaging consequences including the programme, which will result in an Our commitment to integrity financial penalties and imprisonment improvement at full load of 5% in our We have a commitment to high ethical and would be damaging to our overall thermal efficiency and an annual standards and to conduct our business reputation.
During 2011, the Code of saving of around one million tonnes with honesty, integrity and in accordance Business Ethics was refreshed and of carbon dioxide CO 2 emissions.
with applicable laws and regulations.
updated, and ensures compliance Through co-ring sustainable biomass with the Bribery Act 2010 through Our reputation for acting with integrity we reduced our reliance on coal and the adoption of a zero tolerance policy plays a critical role in our success.
saved 2.0 million tonnes of CO2 during towards bribery.
In addition, our Integrity not only underpins how we the year.
The investment in co-ring of commitment to integrity has been do business, but how we expect our biomass since 2008, including building reiterated by issuing to all our colleagues suppliers, agents, partners, contractors the worlds largest co-ring facility has a booklet giving specic and clear and consultants to do business, whether avoided the release of 4.7 million tonnes guidance on the various policies and in the UK or beyond.
Compliance with of CO2 and shows our continuing procedures in place to ensure that the the laws and regulations of the countries commitment to the transition to highest standards of ethical behaviour in which we do business is mandatory a low carbon economy for the UK.
Drax is committed to preventing Our experience and commitment to bribery and corruption and takes Whilst it is often obvious what is right and sustainable biomass from source to responsibility for maintaining a culture wrong, our employees may, on occasion, combustion has provided us with strong within the Group in which bribery is face an ethical dilemma.
If it feels wrong, roots from which a future in biomass can never acceptable.
By encouraging our employees be grown.
This will only come with further to apply good judgement and common As a business we refuse to offer, give regulatory certainty and appropriate sense within the framework of the or receive bribes or any other form of support, both of which are critical Code of Business Ethics they can improper payments and we will never to us realising our ambition to become, contribute to maintaining the high knowingly participate in any form of over time, a predominantly biomass standards we expect.
Our employees should fuelled generator.
In the meantime, always consider the appropriateness of Whistleblowing we continue to further our research offering or receiving gifts or hospitality.
The Groups whistleblowing policy and development work on biomass We have a policy whereby gifts and provides a condential means for our while awaiting further developments hospitality offered or received may employees to speak up with confidence.
The policy provides guidance on how In addition to our thermal efficiency to make a disclosure of information, If faced with a situation of compromising and co-ring work, during the year, in in good faith, relating to some danger, our integrity or losing the associated partnership with Alstom UK Limited and fraud or other illegal or unethical business, we would forego the business.
National Grid Carbon Limited, we applied conduct that they may have witnessed to the European Union for partial funding Code of Business Ethics or are concerned about.
to build a 426MW oxy-red carbon The Groups Code of Business Ethics capture and storage demonstration plant establishes the rules and framework at the Drax Power Station site.
In January Climate change under which employees should base 2012, we were joined by industrial gas their decision making.
Employees are and the environment provider, BOC a member of The Linde expected to follow not only the letter Tackling climate change Group as a co-sponsor of the project.
of the Code, but the spirit.
We believe we have an important Environmental performance What is expected of our employees role to play in the transition of the UK and compliance We require our employees, wherever towards a low carbon economy whilst We fully understand the responsibilities they are in the world, to apply the maintaining secure and affordable we have to society and the environment highest standards of behaviour supplies of electricity.
For us, a sustainable and we are committed to furthering and to be accountable for upholding business principally implies retaining the environmental leadership position the requirements of our Code of and, where possible, enhancing we hold in the coal-red sector.
our commitment to sustainable biomass co-ring and increased Environmental policies and activities thermal efficiency as the major, at both Drax Power Station and Haven strategic carbon abatement initiatives.
Power are discussed and supported at Board level.
The centre of our improved thermal efficiency programme at the power station is the 100 million upgrade of the high and low pressure steam turbines of each of our six generating units.
During the major planned outage of 2011, the penultimate year of the upgrade programme, the installation of a high pressure and three low pressure turbine modules to a further unit was completed.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 38 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility The other wastes generated as part of Our Drax Power Station and associated Disposals to land the operation and maintenance of the landll site manages environmental We have continued to invest in site power station are managed to ensure compliance through an environmental infrastructure to maximise the sale of ash they are processed or disposed of at the management system EMS.
This products into the construction industry highest point on the waste hierarchy.
system is externally certied to the and to reduce the disposal of surplus ash This has resulted in 84% of our waste international standard ISO 14001 and is to landll.
In 2011, ash was sold in diverted from landll.
This years subject to external audit twice a year.
conformance with European construction product standards and in compliance operations have also reduced the We freely discuss our environmental with the Waste Recycling Action total production of waste by around performance and activities with our Programme WRAP quality protocol.
stakeholders and are sensitive to their views and concerns.
This includes This has helped us to sell 77% of the Alternative fuels colleagues, business partners and 1.5 million tonnes of ash produced in 2011 To help maintain our vital role in the contractors and we ensure that they as replacement for virgin aggregates UK economy and safeguard cost understand how they can affect our and as a cement replacement product.
effective power production, our fuel environmental performance by strategy recognises the need to sustain In August, we entered into an agreement identifying the environmental aspects a ready supply of traditional quality coal to lease some of our land to Lytag Ltd of their activities and by working in a and how best to incorporate alternative Lytag, a company based in Escrick, responsible manner.
fuels, including different fossil fuels and North Yorkshire, which manufactures renewable and sustainable biomass We are pleased to report that there were lightweight aggregate from pulverised materials.
The choice of fuels has to be no major breaches of our environmental fuel ash PFA.
PFA generated by the balanced with availability and exibility consents during 2011. power station will be processed in the of supply.
Lytag plant, providing another route to Emissions to air reducing the amount of ash we send The use of petcoke is now routine and We manage all our emissions effectively to landll.
our monitoring indicates that there is no and have maintained high levels of impact on the local community.
In line investment in ue gas desulphurisation Any unsold ash is sent to the power with our policy on openness and and combustion control systems to stations ash disposal site, Barlow Mound.
transparency all data are discussed ensure compliance with environmental The completed area of the site has been with the Environment Agency and limits.
Work continues to develop an fully restored for use as farm land and local councils.
investment programme to optimise woodland.
compliance with the anticipated emission We pay landll tax on the ash disposed limits which will be in place beyond 2016. of to the site.
Through the Landll Communities Fund, we are able to claim Total emissions kt 2011 2010 2009 Sulphur dioxide 32.1 27.3 26.9 a tax credit against our donations to Nitrogen oxides 38.9 40.4 38.2 recognised Environmental Bodies.
Dust 0.6 0.6 0.5 We have worked with Groundwork North Yorkshire since 2001 on projects Discharges to water designed to help mitigate the effects Water is a key resource to Drax Power of landll upon our local community.
Station with the great majority of the During 2011, we contributed 68,800 cooling water abstracted from the towards local community-based projects River Ouse.
Other minor sources include designed to bring about sustainable the Sherwood Sandstone Aquifer and environmental benets and contribute the towns mains.
to the social and economic regeneration of the area.
Water abstraction Mt 2011 2010 2009 River Ouse water 57.7 64.8 58.2 During the year, we worked with Biffa Mains water 0.2 0.2 0.2 Group Limited to introduce a new general Borehole water 2.1 1.8 1.9 and dry mixed recycling waste collection service to assist in recycling waste items Procedures are in place to manage such as food packaging, bottles, cans, and monitor the drainage and water paper and card.
We have removed systems on-site to ensure all discharge individual waste bins at desks in order consent limits are met.
Last year to change peoples behaviour when it we returned 51% of extracted water comes to recycling.
The results speak for back to the River Ouse.
Our water themselves with an additional 64 tonnes use in 2011 was 1.0 tonnes per GWh of waste from these sources collected in of electricity generated.
the 250 big red bins now installed across our site and recycled in 2011.
39 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Sustainability is an essential element Supply chain of good procurement practice and takes Non-fuel procurement account of wider social, economic and In 2011, performance measurement environmental factors in addition to the of our procurement supply chain was conventional criteria of price, quality and increased and improved.
Moving into 2012, by applying been improved to include contingency these wider principles we will create planning and true supply chain mapping procurement practices that go beyond to encompass more elements in the meeting simple tender requirements Good procurement practice existing process.
This has helped to and will include safeguarding our brand develop strategies to identify and Sustainability is an essential element of good reputation and delivering improved procurement practice and takes account of wider mitigate risks in our supply base.
value and real cost savings throughout social, economic and environmental factors in the supply chain.
We undertook a series of exercises to addition to the conventional criteria of price, quality and service.
map out our vulnerable supply markets Coal procurement and suppliers.
Contingency plans have We purchase around 8 to 9 million tonnes been developed to take into account the of steam coal each year.
We buy from a ease of transference of work, potential range of sources with the objective of new suppliers, risks involved with these managing our commercial exposures, selections and timescales for changeover, environmental obligations and diversity if necessary.
We also undertook training of supply.
We continue to purchase to enable us to recognise signs of around half of the coal from UK deep suppliers in distress and as a result we and surface mines with the remainder have enhanced our risk register, allowing coming from major supply basins around supply markets or suppliers to be logged the world, including USA, Colombia and monitored.
This additional diligence has proved As a responsible procurer we work invaluable, allowing us to mitigate the within a strong corporate compliance impact of a supplier that did go into framework.
The suitability of each of administration.
Through implementing our suppliers is checked through our the contingency plan for this particular counterparty approval, know your service, disruption to services and customer processes and ongoing contractor personnel were successfully liaison with counterparties.
when buying from overseas we have introduced a process of documenting, Overall, we like to take a balanced in our contracts, the minimum standards approach to our supply chain and we expect from our suppliers in respect we look to use suppliers and working of compliance with legislation, human partners from diverse backgrounds, rights, labour relations, health and safety in particular, small and medium suppliers arrangements and business ethics.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 40 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility Biomass sustainability These criteria were originally In 2011, our third party auditors carried and procurement designed in the absence of national out a range of audits on key existing and Biomass use is a high priority, but it is or international legislation, to meet or potential suppliers to confirm that they a prerequisite that it must be from a exceed any likely emerging standards are embracing our policy and are sustainable source.
To ensure this we across the whole sustainability spectrum.
improving their performance against have implemented comprehensive Our system is continuously improving our criteria.
Auditors also undertook an criteria into our procurement activities as our experience and legislation ISAE 3000 audit of our overall biomass with the aim of assuring both the develops.
In 2011, these criteria procurement, logistics and combustion availability and sustainability of the secured our leadership position in the in order to provide early experience of supply.
The backbone of our criteria is utilities sector of the Forest Footprint the 2013 requirements.
a high level set of principles committing Disclosure scheme.
We have adopted the target for life cycle us to progressively improve the From April 2013, generators of over greenhouse gas emissions which DECC sustainability performance of 1MW capacity will have to comply with has established for 2013 and beyond, our suppliers.
a set of sustainability requirements on this being similar to our previous internal Our procurement process is designed greenhouse gas savings and land use benchmark.
We have also used the DECC to ensure that the production and developed by the Department of Energy model for calculating these emissions, delivery of biomass will: and Climate Change DECC in order which compares emissions from biomass to receive Renewables Obligation to the EU fossil fuel comparator and k signicantly reduce greenhouse gas Certicates.
We are confident that shows that average emissions savings emissions compared to coal-red our existing policy will be sufficient across the range of biomass materials generation and, where possible, give to ensure compliance.
we burnt in 2011 were of the order of preference to biomass sources that 81%, but with a wide range in savings maximise this benefit: To assist us in continually improving for individual biomass materials.
our systems and the performance of k not result in a net release of carbon This provides reassurance that our our suppliers and to ensure compliance from the vegetation and soil of either current procurement practices and with our sustainability policy we use forests or agricultural lands: suppliers are robust.
an experienced third party to rigorously k not endanger food supply or audit our biomass supply chain.
communities where the use of biomass is essential for subsistence for example heat, medicines, building materials : k not adversely affect protected or vulnerable biodiversity and, where possible, give preference to biomass production that strengthens biodiversity: k deploy good practices to protect and or improve soil, water both ground and surface and air quality: k contribute to local prosperity in the area of supply chain management Procuring sustainable biomass and biomass production: and We have implemented comprehensive criteria k contribute to the social wellbeing of into our procurement activities with the aim of employees and the local population assuring both the availability and sustainability of our biomass supplies.
in the area of the biomass production.
41 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Safety leadership and recognition In addition to this, we were delighted, Health and safety We are constantly striving to once again, to be awarded the RoSPA Health and safety is at the heart of our improve the critical safety leadership Gold Medal Award having achieved corporate responsibility.
Protecting our contribution required from first line Gold Award standards for seven employees, contractors and all visitors supervisors.
The expectations of consecutive years.
from injury is fundamental to our both management and supervisors Processes underpinning performance business philosophy.
We are committed continue to be reafrmed in the Safety The Production Integrity Management to developing and maintaining a positive Leadership Charter.
System PIMS continues to provide the health and safety culture in which platform the business needs to deliver The annual Safety Conference for statutory requirements are viewed as continuous improvement of business contractors and staff continues to be a a minimum standard and leading critical systems which are fundamental focal point.
to the safe and effective operation of the Held early in the year, the conference Personal safety statistics power station.
sets expectations for the coming 2011 2010 2009 years performance.
Fatality 0 00 Spotlight on Safety SOS is our Time Losing Injuries 3 43 Our Weekly Safety Bulletin implementation of the internationally Restricted Work Injuries 1 03 brieng process provides a fast-track proven DuPont STOP programme.
Medical Treatment Injuries 0 50 communication vehicle to reach all This behavioural safety programme is First Aid Injuries 207 148 154 those working on the site.
We use the coupled with the Drax Four Pillars 1 RIDDOR reportable 5 64 process to draw attention to specic of Safety: Notes: safety issues and our performance 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences k Task Risk Assessment TRA Regulations.
record, and to recognise achievements.
k Safety Kick-Off start of shift Active engagement in the safety Attaining leading performance safety brieng brieng process is a job requirement.
The lost time injury rate and total recordable injury rate for 2011 at k Dynamic Point of Work Risk A Health and Safety Advisory Committee 0.08 and 0.10 respectively, remain Assessment POWRA HESAC, which brings together industry-leading, with the latter a record a range of employees, including k Weekly Safety Meeting breaking achievement at the power trade union representatives, safety station since the measure was first representatives, occupational health and The Four Pillars and SOS give us recorded in 2005.
Maintaining this level management team members, continues the framework we need for open of performance is commendable given to play a vital role in facilitating staff engagement between operatives and the significant construction work that consultation on health and safety supervisors.
Together these tools allow took place during the year and number issues, and driving standards upwards.
us to develop the defensive behaviours of man-hours worked, which at the Drax A Corporate HESAC group also exists.
which are a fundamental component of Power Station site totalled some 3 million.
Focusing on engagement with corporate the robust world-class safety culture Our safety record continues to compare staff, the group has a unique set of we aspire to create and maintain.
very favourably with that of our sector targets and a reporting line back to peers and international benchmarks.
Specic processes and procedures HESAC on a quarterly basis.
Amongst global comparator coal-red are also in place to clarify the general People working on the site at all power stations we are ahead of the health and safety responsibilities for levels who have demonstrated safety European and World Pacesetter group the effective supervision, control and leadership have been given for total recordable injury rate, which monitoring of contractors in accordance recognition awards.
is a clear indication that the safety with current legislation and regulations.
management system implemented in The arrangements are built around Our active involvement with the the last few years is delivering sustained an understanding that we and our programmes of our trade body, the levels of performance.
contractors have a responsibility to Association of Electricity Producers protect each other, their respective and the Coal Generators Forum, GENSIP, We have been successful in retaining workforces and others, such as visitors.
continues to provide new ideas and a certication of our Health and Safety An internal audit process is used to stimulus to drive our health and safety Management System to the ensure compliance.
internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety standard, OHSAS More generally, compulsory health and 18001, at the Drax Power Station site and safety induction courses are tailored we have attained certication for the our to suit a range of individuals and their straw pellet plant, based at Goole in the on-site activities.
In total, six courses have East Riding of Yorkshire.
Drax Power been introduced covering, at one end Station is one of a select group of large of the spectrum, accompanied visitors, coal-red power stations in the country right through to those employees or to hold this standard, which is approved contractors working on large scale by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility In 2010, we agreed a long-term pay Each year we recruit for our sponsored Employees deal for all employees in the collective four year apprentice training programme Employment bargaining unit, that is, all production covering power station operations and The Group employed 1,150 people at the employees other than managers and engineering maintenance.
Most of our employees work senior engineers.
The pay deal extends have 18 apprentices at different stages full-time and are on permanent contracts.
to 31 December 2012, providing a of the programme, with plans to recruit platform for continuing stable employee up to ten new apprentices in 2012.
Our opinion surveys consistently show relations in the year ahead.
that our employees are proud to work We accommodate work experience for the Group, and other measures All employees in corporate functions, requests and support local schools of engagement are also very high.
Haven Power and senior production staff and colleges with their career events, For example, at Drax Power Station are employed on personal contracts, as well as supporting employees to be the annual resignation rate is only 1.6%, which are not covered by collective school governors.
the average length of service is just bargaining.
Formal information and At Haven Power, there are a number of under 15 years and 37% of the workforce consultation arrangements are in place leadership programmes in place for the has been with the Group for 20 years for these groups of staff, so that any operations management team, all team or more.
This high level of retention is proposals for change can be discussed managers and all new team leaders.
positive, as our power generation openly and with sufficient time to build in This year Haven Power has also business requires levels of skill and revisions arising out of the consultation.
introduced a Learning to Lead experience which are difficult to source programme focused on equipping Learning and development externally.
Absence rates are consistently potential team leaders with the skills Our personal and career development low, at around 2% per annum.
to progress into supervisory roles.
processes are designed to equip all The annual resignation rate at Haven our people with the technical skills, Throughout the Group we have a rolling Power is over 30%, reecting the nature management and leadership programme of health and safety and of the business.
This is an improving competencies, and personal behaviours first aid refresher training, to underpin gure and Haven Power management needed to achieve our Business Plan.
the safety culture which is central to has recently established a working group All employees receive annual all operations.
which is focused on potential actions to performance and career development reduce staff turnover.
Individual targets are reviewed Internal communications and assessed formally through interim We use a variety of communication We work to achieve high standards in and final appraisal discussions with their channels to ensure that all colleagues employment practices, for example, manager.
Personal development plans are kept fully informed of developments through the avoidance of discriminatory include both technical training and in the Groups operations and have practices, and the speedy and clear behavioural development, which are an opportunity to provide feedback.
resolution of queries and grievances.
delivered through a rolling programme In our 2011 Employee Survey, 96% of We review our policies and procedures of internal and external learning events.
respondents said they understood on a regular basis to ensure legal the direction the Group is taking.
compliance and improved service levels.
In 2011, we introduced a supervisor development programme to develop a At Drax Power Station, Open Forums Employee relations pipeline of potential supervisors to ll provide a series of face-to-face meetings At Drax Power Station, 529 people succession gaps at Drax Power Station.
where the Chief Executive and Executive 68% of the workforce are covered Seven participants completed the Committee present business updates by collective bargaining arrangements.
programme, sponsored and accredited to small groups, followed by an open Formal negotiation and consultation by Coventry University.
The group question and answer session.
The takes place through the Company developed their leadership skills through Open Forums, which are scheduled Committee a joint management and a series of workshops, an action learning to accommodate the power stations union body that meets regularly to project and a 12 week secondment into operational resource requirements, cover discuss working practices and terms and a supervisory position.
Most of the every shift pattern so that all employees conditions of employment for production participants have already secured a have an opportunity to attend.
We use employees, and to receive updates on supervisor position and work is now a variety of media at the Open Forums, the Groups strategy.
underway to run a second programme including DVDs featuring colleagues during 2012. across the business.
This face-to-face communication channel is much valued For approved external training by employees.
programmes, our employees receive financial support, for example, course fees and expenses.
The Group also supports those staff who, as members of professional institutions or associations, are required to undertake continued professional development.
43 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 One of our key priorities: Deliver excellent people leadership across our operations Nurturing our talent Our people are a key resource and we consider it a priority to deliver excellent people leadership across our operations.
Richard Neville Head of Human Resources 2 3 1 4 1,150 1 3 Apprenticeships Diversity and equality Each year we recruit Our policies on diversity for our sponsored and equality, and dignity four year apprentice at work have been training programme.
updated in line with the Equality Act 2010.
2 4 Our values Throughout the Number of employees Group we share the The Group employed values of honesty, 1,150 employees at the energy, achievement year end.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility Through monitoring and encouraging In addition, our all-employee The proportion of women feedback, the Group is committed communication methods include employed within the Group to ensuring that none of the protected monthly team briefs and e-mail and characteristics, such as age, race and intranet communications.
religion, which underpin the Equality Act At Haven Power there is a framework of are barriers to working for us.
individual one-to-one discussions, team meetings and staff forums.
This year Performance and reward Haven Power has introduced a weekly Pay and benets at Drax are attractive communications cascade and targeted and match or exceed the best in the communications events focused on industry sector and the local area.
Board Executive Committee 11.0% 20.0% particular initiatives.
The intranet is We benchmark our salaries and widely used.
benets at every level in the organisation against the industry sector and the Each month following the Haven Power Board meeting, members of the senior market as a whole.
We also participate management team conduct brieng in specialist industry meetings to sessions that all staff are invited to exchange information and developments attend.
These sessions update staff on in employment policy.
the progress of the business and provide 2 Through a range of share plans we Senior Management Drax Power Limited an opportunity to raise questions and to 1 Group 11.4% encourage all employees to build a discuss any concerns.
19.2% personal stake in the ownership of Diversity and equality the business.
We are committed to attracting a broad All core benets, including pension, spectrum of candidates, as we believe permanent ill-health insurance, free that we are more likely to nd the best or discounted private healthcare, available people if we look in the widest life insurance, maternity paternity leave, possible talent pool.
Our aim is to and the Savings-Related Share Option maintain an inclusive work environment Plan are provided to both full and partHaven Power Group total where difference is respected.
2 time, as well as temporary, employees.
Limited 25.1% 52.3% We have established a policy to ensure Recognition that gender diversity is one of the factors The achievements of our staff have been Notes: taken into account when considering 1 This excludes the Board and Executive Committee.
recognised through a number of awards 2 This excludes the Board, Executive Committee and Senior future appointments to the Board and Management Group.
and shortlistings for awards from other senior appointments, and in line external bodies during 2011. with the Equality Act 2010, we have updated our diversity and equality The Forest Footprint Disclosure policy and our dignity at work policy.
scheme is an innovative initiative assisting businesses in assessing their We give full and fair consideration to impact on the worlds forests.
For the suitable applications for employment third year running, Drax was ranked as from people with disabilities having the leader in the utilities sector based on regard to their particular aptitudes and the comprehensive sustainability criteria abilities.
Through a voluntary diversity in our business procurement activities.
monitoring data collection process, 6% of colleagues who responded This year staff at Haven Power helped recorded that they have a disability, the company to achieve the accolade amounting to 3.5% of the workforce.
1 for customer satisfaction Where a colleague becomes disabled in the small and medium enterprise whilst employed by the Group, SME market in the external 2011 we make reasonable adjustments, Datamonitor Survey.
with the assistance of advice from the occupational health team and other specialists, to help them remain in work.
45 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 We were shortlisted for the Company Some categories of worker are Pension provision and retirement Award, given to the company that exposed to materials which may pose There are 378 employees who are has done the most to advance UK a risk to health, such as chemicals and members of the Drax Power Group of renewables, of the British Renewable coal dust.
In these cases, more specic the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, Energy Awards 2011.
Our work on health surveillance, such as lung function which was closed to new entrants in introducing sustainability standards tests, hearing tests and eyesight tests 2002.
All other employees are eligible to to the biomass supply chain ahead of are undertaken through an ongoing join the Group Personal Pension Plan or legislation was recognised and shortlisted programme managed in accordance the Haven Power Personal Pension Plan, in the Renewable Energy category of with risk, exposure and Health and Safety which are both actively promoted to the Green Business Awards 2011.
Any employee aged 55 driver training support programmes are or over is eligible to take their accrued In addition to receiving recognition for in place for those travelling on business retirement benets, in line with the our project work, we were also delighted on a frequent basis.
statutory minimum age for receipt to be acknowledged for upholding good of an occupational pension.
Each year we have a planned programme governance and professional standards of health promotion.
Promotions in 2011 at the ICSA Institute of Chartered In 2011, we removed the default included a healthy heart campaign for Secretaries and Administrators Hermes retirement age and we now have a all employees at Drax Power Station, Transparency in Governance Awards number of employees working beyond run by the charity Heart Research 2011, where we were shortlisted for the the age of 65.
We have also introduced UK and funded by us, and a prostate Best sustainability and stakeholder a phased retirement policy so that and ovarian cancer awareness campaign.
disclosure FTSE250 award and any employee aged 55 or over may the Best remuneration disclosure apply to take accrued retirement benets Haven Power had a full week aimed FTSE250 award for our 2010 and continue to work part-time for Drax at greater promotion of staff benets Annual report and accounts.
Power Limited, subject to operational and facilities.
During the week Haven requirements.
Health and wellbeing Powers occupational health partners We are committed to promoting the visited both the Ipswich and Chelmsford From our Human Resources information health and wellbeing of all our staff sites and provided health advice on systems we produce reports to assist and ensuring a professional response areas such as keeping t at work and managers with retirement and to all first aid and emergency situations stress management.
succession planning and for employees that occur.
approaching their chosen retirement All the Drax Power Station workforce age we offer paid pre-retirement is represented in formal joint On appointment to a role in the Group, leave and pre-retirement courses to management-worker health and safety each new employee completes a medical help people transition smoothly from committees that help monitor and questionnaire or examination to identify working life to their new life.
advise on occupational health and any pre-existing medical conditions safety programmes.
The committees and previous environmental exposure, Each year we invite over 350 Drax have senior management representation, or to identify where any reasonable pensioners to a celebratory event with trade union or employee adjustments are needed in cases at Christmas.
where an employee has a disability.
Association organise trips and other events during the course of the year for We have published occupational people who have retired from the Group.
health policies which address industrial disease risks, and our occupational Sports and Social Club health team undertakes regular Employees can join the Drax Sports programmes to screen colleagues and Social Club for a nominal monthly who are in contact with, for example, subscription through the payroll.
high noise levels or dust.
Everyone The Sports and Social Club, which is also working in operational areas has open to public subscription, offers an a general medical every three years.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility Caring for the community We are committed to being a good neighbour and our caring for the community philosophy involves being part of our local and regional communities.
Rachael Hudson External Affairs officer 3 1 136,813 1 3 Financial support Cricket in the During 2011, the Group community 4 gave financial support Our cricket initiative of 136,813 across a continues to be popular range of charitable and amongst local schools.
In 2011, we staged the fifth Drax Cup 2 competition for boys Skylark Centre and girls aged under At the heart of our nine across the region.
nature reserve, the 4 Skylark Centre is equipped with facilities Art in the Community to help schoolchildren Our Summer Art understand more about Schools and annual the natural habitat and art competition ecology of the area.
were well supported during the year helping us to promote art learning within the National Curriculum.
47 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Stakeholder engagement and community relations Engaging with our stakeholders Like many businesses, our stakeholders 2 are many and diverse, including our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, the local community, Government, non-governmental organisations, regulators, opinion formers and the media.
Communication with all our stakeholders is considered to be an essential part of our business and we aim to be open and transparent in all that we do.
Reference has been already made to specic stakeholder engagement practice and exercises throughout this Corporate and social responsibility section: below we touch on other aspects of our stakeholder engagement commitments, from investor relations to community relations.
Investor relations We are committed to delivering shareholder value.
We communicate our results and prospects to our shareholders in an accurate and timely manner using a variety of channels.
In addition to the Annual General Meeting, we communicate through our Annual report and accounts, Half year report and Interim Management Statements.
All of these documents are made available 7 on our website at www.
significant matters relating to trading and the development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of announcements via a regulatory information service and those announcements appear as soon as practicable on our website.
Announcements are frequently followed up with either conference calls or presentations to provide further detail and greater understanding.
In addition, face-to-face meetings are held with our major institutional shareholders, again to assist them in their understanding of the announcements, but also to ensure that the Board is aware of their views and concerns.
In 2011, a formal meeting programme was conducted in the UK after each of the Preliminary and Half year results announcements, and we undertook investor visits to the United States, Canada and mainland Europe during the year.
To aid our communication with private investors, the investor section of our website has been developed to be a readily accessible and transparent source of information to enhance understanding of the business.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review 48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate and social responsibility Community relations Now in its seventh year, the outage External relations We are committed to being a good charity scheme raised 7,000 during As in previous years, we maintained our neighbour to our local community the years single outage.
Through the engagement with public affairs audiences and our caring for the community scheme 500 is donated for every on issues with implications for our philosophy involves being part of seven days that goes by without an injury business.
With energy policy still high on local and regional communities.
requiring more than first aid treatment.
the political agenda we had significant Our involvement takes the form of Added to this was a further 400 engagement with Parliamentarians and sponsoring a variety of local charities through an initiative to collect used ear ofcials at all levels on issues including and fund raising events, promoting our plugs during the outage.
As in previous forthcoming environmental legislation, own campaigns which focus on the three years the money was divided equally renewables policy and market reform themes of youth sport, education and between two local charities chosen by issues.
the environment, and maintaining open Drax staff and our contractors: Willows The form of engagement was varied communication channels and good Wish, helping a 7 year old girl with and included both face-to-face and working relationships with the regions cerebral palsy travel to America for a written briengs, participation in public key opinion formers.
potentially lifesaving operation: and The consultations, written evidence to Steve Prescott Foundation, which raises inquiries, and visits by Parliamentarians Sponsorship and fundraising money for people suffering with cancer.
and ofcials to Drax Power Station.
As in During 2011, the Group gave financial the past, trade association membership support of 136,813 2010: 131,450 For the fifth year running we held a proved useful during the year.
The ability in total across a range of charitable charity corporate golf tournament at to meet with and discuss issues of the and non-charitable community causes.
The event raised day with other interested parties has Of that total, charitable donations 14,520 for the Yorkshire Air Ambulance, facilitated representation of collective amounted to 93,878 2010: 87,384. which provides a crucial emergency positions on energy policy matters.
A further 750 Some 18,000 of the total donations was donated following a fund raising Locally, we have continued to engage were made under the direction of our event held at the Drax annual Safety with parish, town, district and county sponsorship team, across a range of Conference for contractors and staff.
councillors and ofcers, with the activities within a 20-mile radius of the intention of keeping them up to date with power station.
Each month the team Education in the community our business issues and developments.
meets to consider requests received for We provide a choice of educational Our regular communication channel with charitable donations and community experiences hosted by our team of power these and other local opinion formers sponsorship and makes awards against station guides and, at times, technical takes the form of an annual consultative our criteria of furthering community, experts.
A state-of-the-art visitor centre meeting, and three meetings each year environmental and sporting interests.
is of particular interest to students of with our local parish and town councillors.
all ages allowing them to explore the One of the good causes supported properties of electricity, discover how No political donations were made through the sponsorship team in 2011 a power station works and consider in the UK or elsewhere during 2011 was the Childrens Heart Surgery Fund the environmental issues related to 2010: nil, and the Groups contact Charity, at the Leeds General Inrmary, electricity generation.
with those active in the political arena which supports valuable equipment, has been and will continue to be aimed resources and research for the treatment Combined with a tour of the power solely at the promotion of the Groups of children with heart defects, whilst station, students can learn about the business interests.
providing a support service both for the basic principles and development children and their families.
of electricity generation, the role of The denitions of EU political expenditure different fuels in electricity generation, are broad and there is widespread doubt Drax also operates a for and trading of electricity, environmental about the extent to which normal Give As You Earn matching scheme, issues related to burning fossil fuels, business activities, which might not be under which we match any monies raised the recycling of by-products and the thought to be political expenditure in the for, or donated to, charity by employees.
role of a large industrial complex in the usual sense, could be considered to be During 2011, just over 40,000 of the local economy and community.
political expenditure within the meaning total donations made were through of the legislation.
The Company wishes this scheme.
Another visitor opportunity exists at to avoid any inadvertent infringement our Skylark Centre that lies at the heart of the legislation and each year, though a of our ash disposal site.
A nature reserve resolution at the Annual General Meeting, has been established there to provide seeks the authority of shareholders to a sanctuary for over 100 species of incur expenditure for the Company wildlife.
It is specially designed to help and its subsidiaries for such purposes schoolchildren understand more about of 100,000. the natural habitat and ecology of the area.
49 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Visitors to Drax Educational visits are complemented by Thousands of visitors are welcomed to classroom and laboratory facilities where the power station every year.
The appeal teachers and students can discuss and of discovering more about how power is investigate the results of pond dipping, produced and the sheer scale of the site a bugs and grubs hunt, or a nature trail and its associated activities attracts walk through woodland areas.
schools and colleges as well as business Our Cricket in the Community initiative organisations, and local and professional launched in May 2006 has continued associations.
During 2011, we played host to prove popular with local schools.
During the year, the England and Wales Cricket Board qualied coaches on our On Easter Sunday, we held an event to staff, together with England ladies provide fun and games for local families cricketer, Katherine Brunt, took cricket and also raise money for The Sobriety coaching to schools in the local area as Project, a charity based at the Yorkshire part of our support for education and Waterways Museum in Goole, which to promote sports learning as part of helps disadvantaged young people the National Curriculum.
and vulnerable groups in the local community.
Hundreds of children took Strengthening our links with the game part in the activities, which included a of cricket, for the fifth year we ran the hunt for huge Easter eggs, mask-making Drax Cup, a cricket competition for teams and face-painting.
of girls and boys under the age of nine.
Around 340 primary schools across For three Sundays in the run-up to Yorkshire took part in the knock-out Christmas, we converted the Skylark tournament organised by the Yorkshire Centre into Santas Grotto.
The attraction County Cricket Club Yorkshire CCC proved popular with local residents, over in conjunction with the Yorkshire Cricket 1,200 people came to visit the grotto Board and the Yorkshire Schools Cricket and through their generosity and other Association.
The four area final winners Christmas initiatives some 2,500 was English Martyrs RC Primary School from raised for Selby Hands of Hope, a charity York, Wickersley Northeld Primary helping to fund groups and activities in School from Rotherham, Snaith Primary the local area.
School near Goole and Alwoodley Primary School from Leeds met in the semi-nals and final day at Headingley Carnegie Stadium, the home of Yorkshire CCC and a long-standing venue for test matches and one-day internationals.
This year, for the second year running, the winning school was Alwoodley Primary School.
Under the Art in the Community banner, we held our fifth art competition for primary and secondary schools.
Some 20 schools participated and the winners received prizes of top art supplies and their schools shared in prize money totalling over 2,800.
Our Summer Art Schools, designed to encourage and develop art appreciation as part of our support for education and to promote art learning within the National Curriculum, entered their fourth year in 2011.
Children aged 7 to 10 learnt how to make creatures from bugs to birds and animals in an arts and crafts class using a variety of materials along with t-shirt printing and painting, while a master class for 11 to 14 year olds helped them get to grips with more advanced arts and digital technology.
Fi Financi ial ls G Governance Business review
