BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING 51271 p31-39 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:33 Page 31 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 31 Corporate Responsibility Review A sustainable DS Smith collects waste paper, makes recycled paper, then turns it into approach packaging the full recycled loop.
We play our part by helping our customers meet their environmental targets.
DS Smith also has its own targets that we strive to achieve and exceed.
Our Corporate Responsibility approach Health and safety Aims 2010 11 actions and progress Ensure the safety of our staff and others Health and safety is our top priority in all In 2010 11 excluding Otor : affected by our operations senior operational meetings, it is the first item Lost time accidents LTAs down 9% on the agenda.
Reduce the number of accidents with Accident frequency rate AFR down 7% the ultimate goal of zero accidents Accident severity rate down 8% 62 sites had no LTAs in 2010 11 Environment Aims 2010 11 actions and progress Reduce our emissions by 20% over the next DS Smith has set the target of reducing CO Energy usage per 000s revenue down 9% 2 10 years, relative to production water and landfill usage, relative to production, CO emissions per 000s revenue down 13% 2 by 20% over the next 10 years.
Each of our Contribute to optimising resource usage and businesses has targets as part of their business Water usage per 000s revenue down 14% minimising waste throughout our supply chains plans to achieve this.
Waste sent to landfill down to 13% from 14% Employees Aims 2010 11 actions and progress A Sharesave Plan has been rolled out to UK Develop our employees to fulfil their potential The first Group-wide employee engagement employees to facilitate wider ownership of survey was completed in October 2010 with Promote the alignment of the Groups talent shares among employees.
We have plans 79% of employees participating a very high behind the corporate strategy through to extend similar schemes to employees in response rate for a first survey.
communication, engagement and effective other regions.
people management Community involvement Aims 2010 11 actions and progress Develop and maintain good relations with DS Smith seeks to focus its charitable activity Our businesses work closely with local schools our local communities on projects local to our operations that foster and colleges.
engagement with and between our employees We participate in liaison groups and hold and our communities.
We support good causes in local communities.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Environment Our principles and approach to corporate responsibility DS Smiths business model is built on DS Smith aims to deliver attractive and sustainable returns to its sustainability by providing corrugated shareholders.
Our business is the production and supply of recycled packaging an essential part of the supply chain for many goods.
packaging that is largely made of recycled We are also the largest collector of used cardboard and paper in material, and that is fully recyclable.
Our customers look to DS Smith to provide solutions to plastics products, such as bag-in-box, also reduce both their costs and their carbon footprint by ensuring optimum performance of the packaging they need.
As we help offer significant environmental benets over our customers in their businesses reach their environmental targets, alternative packaging materials.
Therefore we also seek to set high standards within our own business.
for DS Smith, sustainability is part of our Our corporate responsibility CR approach covers health and safety, the environment, our employees, and our communities.
The Board considers risks to the Groups short and long-term value arising from CR matters as part of its regular review of the key risks External recognition for DS Smith in the field to the Groups operations.
It ensures that the Group has in place of sustainability: effective policies and systems for managing any significant CR risks and it receives regular reports on performance.
The Group Chief Green Apple Awards 2010: Executive is the Director responsible for CR matters and he reports DS Smith Recycling received the Green to the Board on these.
It is the responsibility of the Divisional Chief Apple Award for Environmental Best Executives and general managers of the individual businesses to Practice Champion of Champion prize, in communicate and to apply the policies, to ensure compliance and partnership with customer Marks & Spencer, in November 2010.
DS Smith Recycling has to review procedures, taking account of local legislation and been working with Marks & Spencer to potential risks.
deliver their Plan A environmental initiative.
The Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy, under which employees may report in confidence any perceived wrongdoing within the Group on matters relating to safety, the environment, unethical business conduct or breaches of Group policies, the Financial Times PLC awards 2010: law or other regulations.
This policy is reinforced by a confidential DS Smith Plc received the award Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail facility which we aim for Achievements in Sustainability to make available to our employees worldwide as local legal at the PLC awards 2010, presented and regulatory issues are resolved: to date, it has been extended at an awards ceremony in March to employees in nine countries.
The awards recognise are appropriately investigated.
achievement among FTSE250 and smaller companies.
DS Smith continues to be selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies deemed to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING 51271 p31-39 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:33 Page 33 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 33 How packaging helps a sustainable society DS Smith Recycling is the largest collector and recycler of used Packaging is often perceived as a negative part of our economy paper and cardboard in the UK.
DS Smith Recycling also collects filling up our bins, and in turn landfill sites and consuming valuable other types of waste and works with commercial partners to recycle natural resources.
What is less well understood is the role packaging it.
We are different from our main competitors in the UK as, unlike plays in reducing waste, by ensuring that products for example them, we do not own landfill sites.
Therefore customers of our recycling food, household products or electrical goods reach us in good services know that our commitment lies in landfill diversion.
For example, it is estimated that in some developing Corrugated packaging has good environmental characteristics and countries 30 50% of food does not reach consumers due to we see substantial opportunities to continue the expansion of its use wastage, while in the UK less than 3% of food goes to waste between as a substitute for other forms of packaging material.
production and retail depot Source: Industry Council for Packaging For example, our bag-in-box technology is used for a wide range of and the Environment INCPEN.
In the UK, taking food as an example, the energy used in packaging, on average, is 10% of products in substitution for rigid plastic containers, bottles, or other packaging formats.
The cardboard box is readily recyclable, while the total energy input, compared to the energy used in production of the food of over 50% Source: INCPEN.
Therefore it makes sense the plastic content in the bag and tap is often significantly less than the amount of material used in the production of an alternative to use packaging appropriate to the product, in order not to waste the materials and carbon already invested in it.
The benefits continue through the supply chain as boxes of liquids can be packed in a more space-efficient manner Packaging is designed to be eye-catching and therefore is something and the weight of the packaging is less often making it cheaper we tend to notice.
However, of the average weekly load of household and less energy intensive to transport.
These benefits of bag-in-box waste in the UK, 18% is used packaging, while waste food comprises packaging have been independently verified by PIRA the Paper 25%.
Of that packaging, 85% of it is commonly recyclable and Board, Printing and Packaging Association and are promoted Source: INCPEN.
to customers by our Plastic Packaging business.
With the cost of raw materials rising, there are strong commercial Environmental management and regulation pressures to reduce the amount of material in packaging while still The environmental performance and activities of the divisions are delivering the functionality it is designed for.
Looking at the UK, reviewed at the Group Environment Committee, which is chaired the amount of packaging used per person has stayed the same by the Group Chief Executive.
in weight since 1998, despite the increase in consumption since Each of our sites is required to implement an environmental then source: INCPEN.
management system EMS which is appropriate to its activity.
Appropriate packaging, therefore, plays its part in a sustainable DS Smith has 64 sites accredited under the ISO 14001 standard society by protecting our goods and reducing waste particularly and 45 that have in place a simplified EMS, appropriate to their when that packaging is made from recycled material, and can be lower level of potential environmental impact.
As part of their EMS, fully recycled itself.
many Group businesses have procedures in place for assessing How DS Smith plays its part in a sustainable economy their suppliers environmental policies and management systems, Corrugated packaging produced by DS Smith has attractive as appropriate.
environmental characteristics, being both made from recycled The Group had a number of minor environmental incidents during raw material and recyclable.
the year, following which prompt corrective action and steps to We work closely with our customers to reduce the carbon footprint prevent any recurrence were taken.
As previously reported, in 2010 of the packaging they require and at the same time, to save costs.
the Environment Agency brought a case against DS Smith Paper We look at the cost and carbon impact of the whole supply chain, Limited formerly St Regis Paper Company Limited in relation to taking into consideration the transportation, wastage on the packing alleged breaches of the Higher Kings Mills Pollution Prevention and line, and the materials used in the packaging.
For example, Control PPC permit that occurred between December 2005 and DS Smith has been developing light-weight solutions for some time.
The charges primarily related to the training of staff, Our latest innovation in corrugated board, R-Flute, significantly record keeping and the operation of the mills effluent treatment improves the carbon footprint in the supply chain.
A detailed environmental survey has indicated that these similar strength properties to alternative types of corrugated board, breaches did not result in any significant environmental impact.
That means that 20% more boxes can be fitted At the court hearing in October 2010, DS Smith Paper Limited in one lorry from our factory to that of our customer, so fewer pleaded guilty to a number of the offences, generally relating to lorry journeys are needed.
This is a simple example of saving record keeping, and pleaded not guilty to charges of intentionally our customers cash and carbon in their supply chain.
We have a making false entry in a required Environmental Agency record.
range of products under our PackRight tools that help the design DS Smith Paper Limited was found guilty on all charges.
It is of optimal packaging to help our customers realise these savings.
appealing against three of the 19 charges, being those charges 51271 p31-39 vAW.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Review continued and related fines of intentionally making false entries in a required environmental performance indicators.
This review concluded that Environmental Agency record.
The appeal is expected to be heard overall there was a good level of process control and reporting at at the Court of Appeal later in 2011.
In relation to this incident, the sites but identified some areas for improvement which are being DS Smith Paper Limited has received fines totalling 387,100, considered and, as appropriate, implemented.
of which 120,000 relate to the charges being appealed.
On 1 September 2010 the Group acquired the French corrugated In accordance with our general practice relating to any regulatory packaging business, Otor.
Accordingly, the environmental breaches, at the time of the incident a full investigation was promptly performance figures for the Group in 2010 11 include Otors undertaken of all our UK paper mills to ensure that nothing similar operations from that date.
This approach has been adopted in order arose.
As a result we implemented a range of actions to strengthen to be consistent with the consolidation of the financial returns from our systems including increasing the scope and frequency of our Otor.
This is necessary as our relative financial performance measure internal audits.
is revenue, the one common metric across our diverse business.
The Groups paper manufacturing operations account for c. 75% The Group consumed 9% more energy in 2010 11 compared of the Groups environmental impact, particularly because their with the previous year.
This increase was almost entirely due to the manufacturing process uses large quantities of energy and water.
inclusion of Otor in the business.
On a per 000s revenue basis, The UK paper mills are regulated through PPC permits under which energy usage fell 9%, reflecting the change in mix of the business they each have specific improvement programmes and targets.
away from energy intensive paper manufacture to less energy DS Smith Papers overall compliance with its environmental permits intensive corrugated packaging manufacturing, plus the effect of rose to 99% in 2010 11 2009 10: 94% principally due to better price inflation on revenue.
The Groups paper mills reduced their performance of the effluent treatment plants at both Kemsley and energy usage per tonne of paper produced by 3%, due to improved Higher Kings Mills.
DS Smith Paper is a key participant in the UK operational efficiencies at our Wansborough Mill in the UK and paper sector Climate Change Levy CCL Agreement with the increased use of our combined heat and power CHP plant at Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs under which the Kemsley.
The Groups total water usage was 3% higher than in industry has undertaken to achieve energy consumption reduction 2009 10, principally as a result of the inclusion of Otor, but lower targets.
DS Smith Paper met the final target of the existing scheme relative to revenue by 14%, also reflecting mix and price inflation.
with future targets yet to be identified awaiting Government revision The proportion of waste generated by the Group which was sent of the scheme.
The Groups UK and French paper operations are subject to the terms Energy efficiency of their respective national schemes for implementing the EU Emissions Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the UK and Kaysersberg in Trading Directive.
We expect the Groups emissions to be slightly France have on-site CHP plants.
These CHP facilities provide energy below our emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase 2.
The effects of subsequent phases from 2013 onwards are likely to be more more efficiently, with lower CO emissions and at significantly lower 2 onerous, being dependent upon the details of the emissions allocations cost than if it were to be sourced from the external grid.
In addition, and the market price of carbon under future phases of the scheme.
Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy recovery, a substantial proportion of the reject material, such as plastic and polystyrene, Environmental performance which enters its process mixed in with the waste paper and is DS Smith this year has set a target of a 20% reduction in carbon separated out during paper manufacture.
The mills own waste-todioxide CO emissions, water use and of waste to landfill, relative 2 energy plant efficiently recovers the energy to produce steam for to the activity level of the business, over the next 10 years.
Given the use in the mills operations.
Further, we applied in April 2010 for businesses activities carried on within the Group the activity metric planning permission for a sustainable energy plant at Kemsley to employed by each part of the business has been chosen to be that reduce the mills reliance on fossil fuels.
The proposed fuel for this which is the most relevant to them.
For example, for the corrugated plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced and pre-treated offsite, packaging businesses, the relative metric is the quantity of corrugated 2 which might otherwise go to landfill.
The power plant would be built board produced, in m. by energy company E. ON and by waste specialist Wheelebrator, Our businesses include their environmental impact in their budgeting with DS Smith providing the site.
Kent County Council gave their plans in order to track their progress against their targets.
agreement for this plant in April 2011.
The project is now subject to other consents, principally in relation to environmental permitting by During the year, we again employed independent consultants, Bureau the Environment Agency.
If the necessary consents and permits are Veritas, to review our environmental data collection and reporting process in order to ensure the robustness and accuracy of the Groups obtained, it is expected that the plant may be operational by 2016. BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING 51271 new1 p32 35 Layout 1 06 07 2011 17:37 Page 35 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 35 Environmental Performance Indicators Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd 2010 11 2009 10 1 Energy consumption Gigawatt hours 3,492 3,212 Megawatt hours 000 revenue 1.41 1.55 2 Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 311 279 Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 604 602 For the third year we have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions 000 tonnes 915 881 independent opinion on the Environmental Performance Indicators Kilograms 000 revenue 369 426 presented on this page of its 2011 Annual Report.
Having completed a process incorporating site visits, document review and interrogation Water usage of associated management and reporting systems, it is our opinion Million cubic metres 14.5 14.2 that the presented performance indicators provide a fair and Cubic metres 000 revenue 5.9 6.8 accurate representation of DS Smith Plcs performance.
3 Waste management DS Smith Plc should be commended on their approach to data Waste recycled 000 tonnes 223 150 collection, which continues to remain consistent across the divisions Waste sent to landspread 000 tonnes 162 144 with a clear understanding of required processes demonstrated by Waste-to-Energy 000 tonnes 99 105 those with responsibilities in this regard at both divisional and site level.
It is clear that DS Smith Plc is constantly looking to improve Waste sent to landll 000 tonnes 71 65 these processes: both via internal mechanisms, and as demonstrated Total waste generated 555 464 in the proactive manner in which the company has continued to Kilograms 000 revenue 224 224 engage Bureau Veritas on this project.
% of total waste sent to landll 13% 14% As with last year Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc to continue Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance to improve the monitoring of its performance by initiating a halfwith the guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas yearly review of consolidated performance data.
Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is currently practicable.
The figures reported above include data from all of the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned operations A full verification statement including our methodology, basis for and sites worldwide.
The methodology used is consistent for 2009 10 and 2010 11. our opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a 1 The energy figures relate to the usage of all fuels used in fixed installations on the statement of Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the Groups sites plus the diesel fuel used for freight transport.
DS Smith Plc website 2 The CO emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as defined above.
2 The factors used for converting gas, coal, fuel oil and diesel usage into CO emissions 2 http: www.
are the latest factors for each year as published by the UK Department for the Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA in the Guidelines to DEFRAs GHG Conversion June 2011 Factors.
The factors used for converting electricity usage are the national figures for Bureau Veritas UK Ltd each country in which the Group operates, also sourced from DEFRA: these factors London therefore reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions are reported separately.
2 Scope 1 direct emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group: Scope 2 indirect emissions are those arising from bought-in energy i. e. electricity or steam where the combustion has been carried out by another company.
The 2010 11 Scope 1 emissions included 60,000 tonnes 2009 10: 57,000 tonnes of CO which were associated with the production of 2 electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants.
Scope 3 emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Groups products and services are not included.
3 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Health and safety It was also encouraging that 84% of respondents felt empowered Safety is our highest priority.
In 2010 11 we to raise concerns about unsafe practices.
The Groups safety have made good progress, improving our safety communications programme, operating under the slogan Think performance in each of our three KPIs.
Safe, Be Safe, aims to raise awareness of key issues, to challenge unsafe attitudes and behaviour and to promote a collective responsibility for maintaining a safe working environment.
The Group has a well established safety audit programme The safety of our staff and those affected by our operations is our conducted by internal specialists and external consultants.
In 2010 11 the Group continued to improve its safety These audits are used to ensure sites consistent adherence to performance.
Our businesses benchmark their safety performance safety standards and to investigate possible areas of concern.
The internally and through the use of external data.
Information on safety resulting action plans set a clear pathway for improvement.
Further performance, including statistics related to our key performance progress in spreading best practice across the Group has been indicators KPIs, is reported to the Board quarterly.
The overall goal is to achieve zero accidents and our divisions set interim targets against made by integrating safety into the new operational improvement their KPIs, which reflect the nature of their business and their previous forum.
Through this forum, the Group is raising awareness around performance.
In 2010 11, our continuing emphasis on safety was issues such as re-engineering processes to improve safety, and the reflected in a 9% reduction in Lost Time Accidents LTAs : these are safety aspects of procurement decisions.
accidents that resulted in one shift or more of working time being lost.
All accidents and situations that might have resulted in an accident There was a 7% reduction in the accident frequency rate AFR, which are investigated to ensure we learn from these incidents and take measures LTAs in proportion to the number of hours worked.
There steps to prevent a recurrence.
In addition to focusing on specific was an 8% improvement in the accident severity rate, which measures risks, through techniques of risk assessment and root cause analysis, the hours lost as a result of accidents as a percentage of the total the Group also undertakes extensive safety training programmes at hours worked.
The improvements in the Groups safety record reflect all levels of the organisation.
the leadership shown by the Groups managers and the ongoing commitment of our employees to working safely.
As a Group we In 2011 12 the major challenge in health and safety will be the remain resolute in our determination to realise a zero accident culture integration of the former Otor businesses.
The Otor sites have an and to continue to build on the progress we have made to date.
AFR over four times higher than the Group average.
This represents a very significant challenge, but a comprehensive audit of the Otor The Groups progress towards a zero accident culture is evidenced by 62 of the Groups 128 sites having no LTAs in 2010 11.
In sites has been completed and detailed action plans have been the Groups engagement survey, 84% of respondents agreed developed and are being implemented to transform the safety that health and safety was taken seriously at their workplace.
performance over the coming years.
Safety performance indicators Lost time accidents Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate Numbers of accidents resulting Number of lost time accidents Working hours lost as a result of accidents in lost time of one shift or more per million hours worked as a percentage of hours worked 143 7.2 0.15% 2010: 157 2010: 7.7 2010: 0.17% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 299 278 240 157 143 14.1 13.0 10.9 7.7 7.2 0.23 0.24 0.23 0.17 0.15 BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING 51271 p31-39 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:33 Page 37 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 37 Employees Community involvement DS Smith employees are skilled, dedicated DS Smith actively works with local communities, and hardworking.
We are engaging with recognising the position we have in the locations our employees to deliver the Group strategy.
Employee engagement is central to the delivery of the Groups We seek to develop and maintain good relations in the local strategy.
In 2010 11, DS Smith completed its first Group wide communities in which we operate: this is particularly important engagement survey with 79% of employees taking the time to as in many of the locations where we operate we are one of the participate.
This is a very high level of participation for a first largest employers.
As well as providing significant employment survey which reflects the dedication and commitment of the Groups opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions to our employees.
The engagement survey is an opportunity to listen to the communities and build a reputation as a good neighbour and structured feedback and views of our employees.
Our businesses work closely with local schools and been analysed and communicated, and priorities for improvement colleges providing training, mentoring, work experience placements have been identified by management teams with action plans and other opportunities for pupils to learn about industry and developed for the coming year.
A further survey will be completed in business.
The Group is involved in a wide range of other local 2012 to monitor the progress made against these plans.
The Group community activities including sponsorship of community projects has also embarked on a programme to communicate and engage or sports teams and provision of adult skills training.
Our businesses all its employees with the new corporate strategy.
This programme participate in liaison groups with local residents, particularly at will ensure that all employees know the Groups vision and values, locations where there is a need to review ways in which we can its strategic goals and the role they can play.
reduce any inconvenience to neighbours from our operations as a result of traffic movements, odour or noise.
Some sites hold open A new Sharesave Plan for UK employees was rolled out in 2011 days to foster relationships with their local communities.
The Group with the aim of promoting ownership of DS Smith shares amongst supports charitable fundraising activities through modest cash employees.
There are plans to extend similar schemes to employees contributions or staff time.
The majority of the money donated in other regions.
by the Group is given by individual business units, principally Training programmes are carried out by the Groups businesses in to good causes in their local communities.
response to their specific operational performance requirements.
The individual training and development needs of employees are met through a variety of schemes including: management development programmes, which in some cases involve external accreditation: support for studying external vocational and professional qualifications: and schemes for coaching and mentoring managers, using both external and internal resources.
New recruitment and development initiatives, designed to ensure the Company has the skills available to meet its growth targets, are being implemented.
In 2009, DS Smith initiated a two year development programme for c. 70 of its senior business leaders.
The programme has been designed and run in partnership with Warwick Business School with bespoke content combining the latest academic thinking with practical application to the Groups businesses.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunities in all recruitment and employment practices.
It is also committed, as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights and legislation requirements in each of the countries in which it operates: in practice the Group often exceeds the local and international requirements.
As DS Smiths operations are almost entirely located in member countries of the OECD, human rights matters are not perceived as a significant Group risk.
