Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 47 Corporate social responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is integral to meeting the long-term expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and to ensure the sustainable development of our business.
It is clear that protecting the environment and running our business ethically not only makes good commercial sense but also improves the experience for both staff and customers.
The Board places particular emphasis on maintaining good relationships with its customers, employees, suppliers and local communities: on ethical sourcing: on environmental issues: and on charitable contributions.
The Executive Management team reports regularly to the Board on all of these issues.
Our people Dunelm employs over 6,600 people throughout the Groups 113 stores, distribution, manufacturing and head office locations and the Group places a high priority on maintaining regular communications with all employees.
This keeps colleagues engaged in the development of the Group and also keeps them aware of the many career development opportunities that exist.
The Group is a growing business and places an emphasis on the retention and development of its own employees.
Our benefits package is competitive.
We offer nationally accredited training programmes and ILM Institute of Leadership and Management qualifications to support the development of talented individuals at all levels of the business.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and is committed to recruit, develop, promote and retain skilled and motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status or age.
Our suppliers Dunelm is clear that committed suppliers are crucial to us achieving our growth ambitions.
Our products are sourced from many countries around the world and finding the best manufacturers to meet our high standards for design & innovation, quality and value is essential as we leverage our increased buying scale.
The Group continues to work in collaboration with suppliers to ensure that our products are produced in clean and safe environments, that workers are treated with respect and earn a reasonable wage and that suppliers work within the relevant local laws and legislation.
All direct suppliers are required to sign up to our Ethical Code of Conduct enforced by a full program of independent factory audits, based on the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI base code.
Dunelm operates standard terms and conditions ensuring that all suppliers are treated fairly and on a consistent basis.
All new suppliers are made aware of the basis of trade with Dunelm and in particular our standard payment terms in advance of commencing trade.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment at 2 July 2011 was 36 days 2010: 36 days.
Health and safety Dunelm is committed to achieving high standards of health and safety in all operations and understands its duty of care to our employees, contractors, customers and any other visitors to our premises.
The business has a Health & Safety Committee which meets quarterly supported by a dedicated Health & Safety manager and senior operational management.
This committee ensures that key risks are fully understood and that all mitigating action has been taken to provide a safe environment.
Monthly KPI reporting, outlining significant risks and incidents, is also presented to the board.
The Group undertakes a program of risk assessments and audits to identify areas of concern whether its in workplace transport, safety during store development or a safe shopping environment.
Training programs ranging from documented Safe Systems of Work SSOW to web based e-learning and testing modules are also in place to help ensure a safe and clean environment and each site is subject to an annual compliance review.
During the past year the number of reported accidents was 49 2010: 46.
48 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued Environment Dunelm recognises that good environmental management makes good business sense.
The Group is committed to controlling and minimising the impact of our operations both directly and indirectly in the key areas of waste management, energy consumption and carbon emissions.
The Company has established an Environment Policy to determine appropriate business behaviour and has an Environment Committee tasked with delivering the strategy to continually improve these key areas and to achieve high levels of environmental performance.
Our progress over the past financial year and our goals for the forthcoming year are detailed below: 1.
Waste recycling Dunelm is aiming to maximise the volume of waste which is recycled and in so doing reduce the volume going to landfill.
Part of our strategy is to boost recycling capabilities by accelerating our investment in balers.
This year we have increased the number of sites with balers to 103 2010: 43 and at the same time launched our Recycle at Work initiative to engage colleagues in correct treatment of waste.
A new position of Group Recycling Manager has been created to oversee this and to deliver more effective waste management strategies.
In the year we have also completed the full roll-out of DMR Dry Mixed Recycling to all Dunelm stores and central support facilities 2010: 12 sites.
As a result we now recycle all of our plastics, paper, bottles and cans in addition to cardboard.
We have also engaged our suppliers to review the specification of packaging used to maximise recyclable content.
These initiatives, together with enhanced volume, weight and contamination reporting of site by site performance has enabled Dunelm to reduce the proportion of waste to landfill from 50% 2010 to our lowest ever level of 32%.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce the cube volume of waste sent to landfill by a further 25%.
In addition we now expect to achieve our target of zero waste to landfill within the next 3 years.
Waste recycled all stores % 100 yoy improvement 80 76% 68% 60 50% 40 30% 20 cardboard electrical metals plastics 0 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 Target 2011 12 Landll Recycled 2.
Energy usage Energy reduction on a site-by-site basis has been a key focus for the Group in the last financial year.
In addition to the AMR Automatic Meter Reading smart meters that are in place for all electricity supplies we have applied the same technology to monitor and control our gas usage.
Data on energy consumption is pulsed through on a half-hourly basis allowing us to profile high or unusual patterns, target specific sites and to monitor the success of our energy reduction initiatives.
All investments in new and refitted stores now come with a Building Management System BMS as standard.
This BMS is designed to optimise energy usage across the site while maintaining an appropriate shopping environment for our customers and staff.
In H2 we commenced the trial of these systems in 3 other existing stores and we expect to roll-out more widely next year.
At the end of the year we had 30 BMS stores 2010: 11.
As a result of these actions we have reduced electricity usage by 6.3% and gas usage by 20% in like-for-like stores.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce electricity by 5% and gas usage by 10% in like-for-like stores.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 49 YOY Reduction in electricity consumption L4L stores - % 14 12 12.5 10 8 6 6.3 5.0 4 2 2.4 0 2009 10 2010 11 Target 2011 12 Cumm by end FY12 3.
Carbon emissions CO 2 2 We have reduced our total CO equivalent emissions from energy and business mileage per ft of selling space by 15% over the year.
2 Dunelms carbon footprint for the period ended 2 July 2010 was 23,280 tonnes of CO Companys Independent energy advisers.
2 Over the past year we have continued to source energy from Green Energy supplies such as combined heat and power sources where CO 2 emissions are 30% lower than the national average.
In July 2010 we agreed to switch all supplies of electricity to Green Energy and we will continue to monitor this over the coming year.
We have continued to reduce the maximum emissions tolerated within our company car fleet, this is now 135g km 2010: 155 g km and many fuel efficient variants have been added to the scheme.
This year we will focus on building design and efficient investments to reduce consumption further.
Continued investment in BMS will remain a strategic goal but we will also look to invest in LED lighting solution for stores where possible.
During the year Dunelm achieved the Carbon Trust Standard CTS certification recognising our success in reducing our carbon footprint but also our continuing governance and management in this area.
We have also registered for the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC and have submitted both annual and footprint reports as part of our commitment.
We will continue to partner with an external consultancy to further focus on reducing our carbon emissions.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce relative CO emissions year on year.
2 Carbon emissions - tonnes per store 300 250 252.0 225.0 200 217.5 210.0 150 100 50 0 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 Target 201112 50 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued 4.
Product packaging Dunelm continues to work with suppliers to reduce both the absolute level and recyclability of packaging in our products.
In the year we have audited many of our waste streams to divert materials from landfill where possible.
Most recently we have identified a particular spec of clear plastic or wrap that should be used by suppliers LDPE Low Density Polyethylene.
This product has the most has a much greater recyclable content.
This will be the standard for all suppliers going forward.
The Group is promoting a reduction in the use of single-use carrier bags and we ensure that Eco-bags are offered in all stores.
Charitable donations The Groups charity of the year in the last financial year was Rays of Sunshine childrens charity.
Collections are made in stores, specific fund-raising events are organised and the Group makes its own donations, from time to time the Group also makes ad hoc donations to local charities.
The total value of donations made by the Group in the year ended 2 July 2011 was 56,000 2010: 60,000.
Total funds raised for charity by the Group and its staff was 140,000 2010: 157,000.
