Directors Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide Introduction Health and Safety Policy are: This report describes the policies and procedures that the Board has put in place to ensure that ensuring that health and safety issues are at the Aggreko operates in a safe, ethical and responsible forefront of considerations when we design our manner, which protects the environment as well as equipment: safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers, and the communities in which it operates.
ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained The process for identifying, evaluating and managing to the highest standards: the risks that are considered significant is summarised under the heading of Internal Control on page 59. training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment: and The nature of our business is that we work in many different countries, often in remote and difficult ensuring that health and safety issues have environments, with equipment and substances which, the appropriate level of focus throughout the if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to management chain.
people and harmful to property and the environment.
We frequently operate in response to natural or manAggreko has created its own Global Environmental made disasters, where the infrastructure has been Health and Safety Management System GEMS badly damaged and where operating conditions are far which has been implemented throughout the business.
Over time, therefore, we have developed At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice a comprehensive range of operating procedures and document that is published in 8 languages English, processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian to people or to the environment.
The Best Operating Practice is updated in the light of experience and incidents.
Health and safety Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, which is designed to ensure that the Company knows electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around of every incident, and can learn from it.
Compressors and generators respectively accident and incident data collection procedure produce high-pressure compressed air and high voltages is implemented worldwide, and from this we can electricity, either of which can be harmful to people measure our performance and benchmark our if mishandled.
Performance measures are reported at a business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious Aggrekos policy is to implement common health incident is immediately reported to the Executive and safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating Meetings of the senior management of each region procedures are the same high standard.
are held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
The Executive Director responsible for Health and Safety, George Walker, produces monthly reports, which are considered at each meeting of the Board.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Safety Employees and equal opportunities Our business involves the frequent movement of heavy Aggreko is committed to promoting equal equipment which, in its operation, produces lethal opportunities for all, irrespective of disability, voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous ethnic origin, gender or any other considerations that safety processes are absolutely essential if we are to do not affect a persons ability to perform their job.
avoid accidents which could cause injury to people and damage to our reputation and property.
Safety The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career processes are also a basic benchmark of operational development and promotion of employees are based discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation on the suitability of the individual and give those who between a well-run business and a safe business.
are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining The main KPI we use to measure safety performance the Group are given suitable training for alternative is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the The Group continues to operate team briefings base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, throughout its business to keep employees informed of 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
developments and plans, both in their own operations A lost time accident is a work related injury illness and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access that results in an employees inability to work the to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based day after the initial injury illness.
system, which provides them with a wide range of information on the activities of the Group around the The Groups FAR during 2011 was unsatisfactory, world.
The annual and interim results are publicised in that it increased markedly over the previous year.
extensively throughout the business and are made It is still better than the benchmark of 1.1 reported available to all employees.
for US rental and leasing industries published by the US Department of Labor in 2010, but we expect to The Group introduced a whistleblowing hotline in be much better than the rest of the pack, and we are April 2011, which now gives access for all employees to dissatisfied with being only a little better.
It is perverse a confidential, multi-lingual service to report any cases that this statistic should get worse in a year in which of ethical non-compliance, bullying or discrimination.
safety processes have been strengthened in many areas: in particular, our manufacturing operation achieved The environment OHSAS 18001 certification in the 2010, yet saw a Set out below is an explanation of the terms and sharp increase in FAR in 2011. abbreviations used in this section.
After a disappointing year, in which our FAR CO2 Carbon Dioxide.
performance has come perilously close to being merely EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
average for our industry, we intend to re-double our efforts SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction.
in 2012 to make Aggreko a safer place to work in 2012. g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
FAR was as follows: kVA A thousand volt amperes.
Year ended 31 December LWA Sound power level at source.
Finally, it is with great sadness that we report that we Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
had our first fatality ever in Aggreko: in Mauritania, a Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 US Federal Government service technician, being driven home at the end of his target emission reduction levels.
shift by a professional driver, was involved in a serious car crash and later died of his injuries.
Our thoughts and condolences go out to his family.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Environmental policy The principal contribution we can make to reducing Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design good order, and introducing engines into the fleet and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to with good emissions performance.
minimise the environmental impact of that equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers equipment and In an increasing number of countries, air quality solutions that are designed to comply with applicable regulations stipulate emission standards with which laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we new equipment being sold must comply.
Generally operate in the world.
In effect, this means they comply countries allow equipment already operating to with the laws, regulations and standards of some of the continue to do so for its useful life.
This is called most stringent jurisdictions in which we operate and, grandfathering.
The US EPA has introduced the therefore, far exceed the levels required in many others.
earliest and most stringent regulation in this area, introducing reduction targets for emissions of NOx The two major environmental issues we deal with in and particulate in Tiers, starting with Tier 1 in 1996, our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment moving to Tier 4 final around 2014.
The EPA the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the requirements have therefore been the main driver safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
The following graph illustrates the reduction targets for emissions under Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar the EPA regime.
They comprise: NOx and particulate reduction targets ensuring that environmental issues are at the forefront of considerations when we design our fleet: 0.6 Tier 1 ensuring that our equipment is built and 0.5 maintained to the highest standards: training and educating our staff worldwide 0.4 in the safe operation of our equipment: and 0.3 ensuring that environmental issues have Tier 3 the appropriate level of focus throughout Tier 2 0.2 the management chain.
Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates 0.1 Tier 4 Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of final hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as Tier 4 interim 0 engines have become more efficient and legislation to 0 2 4 6 8 10 limit emissions around the world has become stricter, NOx g kWh emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in co-operation with the manufacturers of diesel engines in order to meet new emission requirements in a timely manner.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Particulate g kWh As our suppliers produce engines which comply with Aggreko natural gas generator development new emissions, we work with them to introduce the We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing new engines into the fleet.
In 2008, we started trialling emissions, and have developed a gas-fuelled temporary new Tier 2 compliant engines for our high-horsepower power solution, which has significantly lower levels range, and these were introduced into production in of emissions see below.
During 2011 we continued our investment in Tier 1 engine Gas engine Reduction new emissionised fleet: by the end of 2012 we will have invested $135 million in our North American NOx 8.5 g kWh 1.4 g kWh 74% fleet renewal programme with the vast majority of Particulates 0.10 g kWh 0.04 g kWh 60% our power fleet capable of operating at Tier 2 EPA CO2 intensity 669 g CO2 520 g CO2 22% standards or above.
At lower horsepower sizes we kWh kWh have started to deliver Tier 3 and Tier 4i machines.
Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over During 2011, over 50% of the new diesel engines other energy sources.
It is seen as economically more introduced to our worldwide fleet were certified to at efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas least Tier 2 in North America or the equivalent Stage produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
At the same time, more than In addition, technological advances are constantly 10% of new sets were certified to Tier 3 Stage 3 or improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation above.
We expect this trend for increasing emissions and storage techniques as well as in equipment that compliance to continue in 2012. uses natural gas.
Tier 4 emissions Natural gas is considered an  Development is underway of diesel generators to meet clean fuel, offering important environmental benefits up-coming Tier 4 standards for mobile generators.
when compared with other fossil fuels.
The superior In 2008 a significant project was undertaken in Chile environmental qualities over coal or oil are that to deliver the lowest level of NOx yet stipulated by a emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and that standard.
Seventy of Aggrekos project machines were the level of NOx and CO2 emissions is significantly fitted with an advanced SCR that reduced NOx by lower.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a by-product of 90%.
Similar technology will probably be required production or is derived from a biological source, a CO2 to meet EPA Tier 4 requirements in the US and in and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
This helps to Europe shortly after.
We are currently working closely reduce problems of acid rain, ozone or greenhouse gases.
with engine manufacturers to develop appropriate solutions for these requirements.
In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is effectively a stranded resource.
Aggrekos service allows for generation of power from this valuable resource on a more flexible and scalable basis than existing solutions.
50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Alternative energy sources Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide In addition to the work we have undertaken All of Aggrekos core activities release CO2 into the developing natural gas-powered generators, we are atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
The most constantly reviewing product technologies, looking significant impact arises from power generation in for advances that we can adopt within our product Aggreko International owing to the intensiveness of portfolio.
These include: our activities in providing temporary power stations.
Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon Bio-fuels Across some of our markets we have seen fuels inevitably causes the release of CO2 and the the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative energy performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable source.
These fuels are compatible with most of our to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively generator fleet, either in a blended or pure format.
researching the availability of alternative mobile Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given that the power sources that will reduce the level of CO2 crop that derived the fuel has absorbed CO2 from emissions: until an economically viable alternative the atmosphere.
While we will continue to support becomes available, the level of emissions will mirror customers who wish to run our equipment on the level of our business activity.
The actual amount Bio-fuels, our main concern with this energy source of CO2 released by our engines is driven by the usage is sustainability of the sources of production, and our customers make of our equipment on rent: an the environmental impact of certain production engine running 24 hours day will emit much more methods.
Consequently, we are not actively CO2 than an engine used for a few hours a day.
promoting Bio-fuel use in our business.
These patterns of usage can vary widely from country to country and from year to year.
We estimate that Fuel Cells Whilst we keep a close watch on the customers using Aggreko engines produced an average development of Fuel Cell technology, we do not CO2 emission rate of 619 g kWh.
The CO2 intensity currently see any commercial application in our of UK grid power generation is approximately 594 g business.
This may change as technology improves CO2 kWh: given our mix of gas and diesel generating and costs reduce.
sets, it is therefore reasonable to assume that the CO2 intensity of our customers use of Aggreko equipment Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage is likely to be similar to that of the UK National Grid.
the application of renewable energy sources to large temporary power generation projects.
While Because customers operate and fuel much of our fleet, we have, for example, reviewed the application of we do not have visibility of fuel consumption and battery technology in combination with a diesel therefore CO2 emissions, so we can only guess at what generator to provide hybrid power, which can the emissions are in a year, but a reasonable estimate improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, would be between 12 and 15 million tonnes of CO2 technology is not yet advanced enough to worldwide: this compares with Drax power station enable us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
in the UK, which has a capacity of 4,000MW and We do however foresee a role for our products produces about 22 million tonnes of CO2 per annum.
in supporting systems and grids which rely upon renewables, where seasonal restrictions can occur.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The graph below illustrates the relative emissions rates Our equipment has been specifically designed to of Coal, Diesel and Gas for electricity production.
minimise the risk of fluid spillage through features such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.50 has been CO2 intensity in pure electricity production set by the Group as a target for 2012, based on 90% of the 3-year average experience.
g CO2 kWh 1,000 Another potential source of environmental damage 800 is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil and filters.
In our Local business, these are normally 600 returned to our service centres where they are safely disposed of.
In our International Power Projects 400 business, site-specific arrangements are made to ensure the safe handling of these items.
200 0 Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way Coal Diesel Natural gas to safety incidents, with monthly reports reviewed at each meeting of the Board.
Petroleum spills and the safe disposal of waste fluids Noise Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through quantity of diesel fuel and the rare occurrence of an equipment fleet that minimises external noise.
This accidental fuel spills is an area that the Group monitors is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures very closely.
The measure used by management to as well as high performance isolation and attenuation measure the performance of the Group in handling systems.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its fuel is the Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This is suppliers and local university research departments in calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the order to develop its expertise in this field.
As a result, our cumulative average MW on rent.
The PRR performance equipment is able to achieve the following performance over the past three years has been: standards that are well below the maximum levels permitted by current European legislation.
2011 0.62 Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA Aggreko Aggreko 2010 0.58 Maximum Standard Premium Prime power EU limit Product Product 2009 0.49 30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 60kVA 96.77 93.0 80.0 125kVA 97.10 94.0 83.0 200kVA 97.30 94.0 91.0 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
52 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Refrigerant Business ethics In accordance with the timelines and accords set Ethics Policy out by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, CFC plant from its temperature control rental fleet performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: we long-term success is something less tangible and less have introduced HFC production models in all areas.
easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business Social Responsibility dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term Policy relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to as well as consultants and agents who we work with, engage with the communities in which they work, and are expected to behave ethically in their work, and each year they undertake innumerable initiatives to help our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate the disadvantaged or those affected by natural disasters.
The objective of the Policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain Charitable donations our reputation for exceptional customer service and ethical business dealings: to compete ethically: and to During the financial year the Group contributed to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high a range of charitable, community and disaster relief standard.
The Board has set up an Ethics Committee organisations.
In terms of cash and value-in-kind this comprising Philip Rogerson Chairman, David Hamill amounted to around 157,000 compared to around and Ken Hanna, to oversee the implementation of the 300,000 donated in 2010, but this is an estimate Groups policies and procedures, and the report of the and probably an under-estimate, because it is hard to Committee is set out on page 68.
Further discussion precisely quantify value-in-kind donations, and does of our policies for handling ethical risks is set out under not include a valuation of employees time.
Of this Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 31 and 32. total, 43,370 2010: 43,256 was donated in cash to registered UK charities.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their We have a policy of giving little donations to many confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
organisations which are involved with the communities The implementation of a Group-wide whistleblowing in which we work, rather than giving a lot of money hotline, described above, helps this process.
Our largest single donation goes to Book Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in See our Corporate Responsibility website Africa, with whom we have been working since 2006.
Book Aid has provided hundreds of thousands of Further information and copies of the Environmental, books to schools and libraries.
We admire their work Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy enormously, and donations from Aggreko have enabled are available at www.
com investors books to be distributed in Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia, .
Books are, we feel, a good form of donation: they do not require maintenance: they can be used by many people: they are not open to corruption: they last a long time: and they help directly in the key task of helping people to help themselves.
No political donations were made during the financial year 2010: nil.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53
