36 easyJet plc Corporate responsibility Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued Share schemes Charitable donations We once again offered all our people the opportunity easyJet has continued to support the Alzheimers to join its popular all-employee share plan, easyJet Society as its European charity partner.
The plan has won five major awards to onboard collections we have managed to raise over date, and involves three elements: Save As You Earn 800,000 for this charity.
SAYE : Buy As You Earn BAYE and Free Shares.
Each Our charitable support also focuses on our employees scheme is Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and their efforts to raise funds for local charities across approved and is open to all our people on the UK our pan-European bases.
This has involved raising payroll.
For our people who are on non-UK payrolls, funds for a number of different charities and has seen international schemes have been established, with our staff undertake numerous activities including, the similar terms and conditions to the UK scheme, albeit London and Paris marathons, and the Three Peaks without the UK tax benets.
Participation in the challenge to name a few.
scheme remains very strong, with over 80% of our eligible people taking part in one or more of the plans.
Political donations easyJet does not make donations to any political party.
Your benets This in not in line with our values and would be deemed Our UK people continued to be entitled to select from as inappropriate.
This enables our people to access programmes and savings which would not Gifts and gratuities be available to them on an individual basis.
A lifestyle easyJet employees are sometimes sent gifts from benets scheme also remained in the year offering various companies throughout the year.
In order to discounts on a wide range of products and services.
provide clear guidance to employees and avoid potential conicts of interest, we have a strict policy Our people make further savings in tax and National that prevents any employee accepting gifts over a Insurance for many of these benets, through salary nominal value of 35.
When required, easyJet holds a sacrifice.
easyJets National Insurance savings staff rafe of all the gifts that are received.
Every contribute to the nancing of the scheme, which is fully employee across Europe is entered into the draw and outsourced.
Numbers are easyJet Spirit Awards then drawn at random and winners have the gifts sent In 2010 we launched a new employee awards scheme: directly to their home.
This scheme rewards our people for their commitment and hard work, and recognises where our easyJet and the environment people go above and beyond to enable our business to succeed.
During the course of the year, we have efficiency is in our DNA and this applies to our monthly, quarterly and annual recognising achievement environmental impact as well.
We believe the most across the different communities within our business.
important environmental issue facing the industry is climate change and addressing our environmental This year we also launched the easyJet Spirit Awards impact is part of our responsibility as an airline.
As an Portal, a section of our intranet where employees can airline easyJet is constrained in what it can do in the recognise each other, and nominate their colleagues area of CSR as we are heavily constrained by the for Spirit Awards.
This has been really well received with technology available to us, the development of which more than 5,000 nominations for Spirit Awards during isa highly regulated and lengthy process.
the first four months, representing an over 500% increase on the number of our people formally Fuel is our largest single cost item, so we are heavily recognised during the previous year.
We will be holding incentivised to minimise its use and therefore CO2 our second annual awards event in February 2012. emissions As we grow we are replacing less efficient operators and therefore reducing emissions on routes where we are replacing capacity.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 37 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
Environment Progress over time and environmental data The aim of our business is to be as efficient as we can Over the last ten years easyJet has successfully be this applies to our environmental impact as well.
improved our CO2 efficiency every single year.
Our environmental policy is governed by three However, this year our CO2 efficiency declined promises: slightly.
This is due to a number of factors including shorter sector lengths, increased fuel burn in the first To be efficient in the air half of the year due to winter weather and disruption.
To be efficient on the ground Emissions per passenger km the standard industry measure of efficiency increased in 2011 to 84.6g km To lead the move to more efficient ying from 84.4g km in 2010.
Emissions per passenger We have also focused on ensuring the industry plays its journey also increased, rising from 82.3 kg per sector role in tackling climate change.
Our next financial year to 84.6 kg.
We redoubled our efforts to improve fuel is an important one for aviation and the environment as efficiency in the second half of the year and this will it will encompass the first year aviation will play a full continue to be a significant focus in 2012 role in the European Union's Emission Trading System Aviation and the environment ETS, ensuring that aviation emissions are part of Aviation has three main environmental impacts: Europes efforts to tackle climate change.
On climate change To signicantly reduce our environmental impact Aviation contributes to climate change through both further will require technological change across the the direct emission of CO2 from fuel burn, and due to industry, so our environment policy focuses on these other non-CO2 effects from the emission of Nitrogen long-term gains.
Oxides NOx, particles and aerosols and cloud formation.
The science surrounding the impact of CO2 passenger Km g aviations CO2 emissions is very well developed, while the science surrounding non-CO2 effects remains uncertain.
It is clear however that the long-lasting 0.2ppt impact is from CO2 emissions.
2011 84.60 On local air quality 2010 84.40 Local air quality impacts arise from NOx emissions during aircraft take-offs and landings.
We have 2009 87.30 upgraded 40% of our engines with the tech insertion 2008 90.31 upgrade.
This reduces emissions but also reduces NOx emissions by 10%.
These engines are the best in class 2007 95.56 and help minimise our impact on local air quality.
2006 95.70 On noise levels 2005 98.80 Aircraft noise clearly has an impact on residents around airports.
easyJet complies with local rules that govern 2004 104.50 noise at airports such as curfews and routeings to 2003 110.00 avoid built up areas.
Our aircraft meet the tightest international noise standards [ICAO chapter 4].
Our 2002 106.90 focus on improving the efficiency of our ying has also 2001 112.50 reduced our noise impact: by changing the ap settings used for landings we have both improved fuel efficiency and reduced noise levels at landing.
