32 easyJet plc Annual report Corporate responsibility and accounts 2011 At easyJet we view ourselves as a responsible Safety first and foremost European airline.
We want to achieve our ambition of The safety of our customers and staff is easyJets becoming Europes preferred short-haul airline and in number one priority: it remains a core part of our DNA.
order to do so we are always looking at safer, more From all across the business, the boardroom to the sustainable and innovative ways of running things, but ight deck and the check-in desk to the maintenance place just as much importance on nurturing the bay, safety informs everything we do and is the starting well-being and happiness of our people.
As we point for every decision, at all times.
continue along the path of Turning Europe Orange there is no substitute to having a responsible approach.
The evolution of our open and just culture continues We know that that our success is inextricably linked to with easyJet being at the forefront of promoting open the well-being of our customers, our people and the reporting of all safety-related incidents, no matter how communities in which we operate and work.
minor they may appear at first glance.
At easyJet, we aim to maintain processes and structures to monitor Our foremost responsibility is towards the safety of all and manage safety related risk throughout the of our people, from our customers through to our hard business.
working staff both on the ground and onboard our aircraft.
This is core to the business and something we Our Chief Executive officer, Carolyn McCall, and communicate on at all times to all our partners and Director of Group Operations, Warwick Brady, are stakeholders, be they European governments, responsible for all aspects of safety delivery, including regulators, or other stakeholders central to our business our compliance obligations under the Air Operators operations and commercial success.
The Accountable Safety Executive is Carolyn McCall and she chairs our Safety Review Board But it is the strength of our people which above all which meets monthly to assess reports from the Safety others marks us apart.
Their passion, expertise and Action Groups across the business.
This review and commitment is at the heart of what we do.
Over the assessment process delivers monthly reports to both past year we have continued to build up connection the UK Civil Aviation Authority UK CAA and the with our people.
Were evolving and changing the way easyJet Board.
In addition to our internal safety and we communicate to them all across our European compliance oversight regime, our Director of Safety operations.
In turn, our long-term performance and and Security, Captain David Prior delivers an sustainability are dependent upon their understanding, independent safety report to the Board each month goodwill and active support so that they continue to which underlines how serious this issue is for our Board.
improve the experience for our customer.
Safety is taken very seriously by the Board right down We believe in the positive contribution ying brings to to regular day-to-day communication.
The Board even Europe, particularly during these difficult economic has direct phone line through to our Director of Safety.
times, and is central to many Europeans businesses Any reported safety-related incidents are assessed and and way of life.
At easyJet we are rightly pursuing our categorised, with risk values assigned and aggregated ambitious path towards minimising our environmental to form our Composite Risk Value CRV index.
During footprint both in the air and on the ground.
This is the year, the index showed a steady improvement, central to the ongoing success and sustainable continuing a long-term trend reducing risk to well within development of the business.
Operating across an the assigned boundary level.
increasingly environmentally conscious Europe, we can justly lay claim to having one of the youngest and most fuel-efficient eets around.
We are proud of this, and proud of our role in helping shape a greener future for European aviation.
There is little doubt that by continuing to act in a responsible manner this will help us to achieve our ambition of becoming Europes preferred short haul airline by making travel easy and affordable and generating market leading returns.
