Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 33 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
The Safety Management System SMS launched in easyJet has since become the first airline to start trials 2009 has continued to extend its inuence across the of the AVOID.
8,288 organisation to ensure that the highest standards of Number of people The safety of our passengers once they have left the safety risk management and oversight are embedded across easyJet network aircraft is also important to us.
Last year easyJet in everything that we do.
We have now successfully worked with the EU to help raise awareness of the embedded the concept of Operational Readiness and pan-European emergency number 112.
Several activities 5,000 this process now applies to all our major operational were carried out including onboard announcements initiatives such as the ground fide-icing programme.
Number of Spirit and a permanent mention in the in ight magazine.
recognitions in first four During 2011 we congured a number of SMS tools and Allof this to help our millions of customers feel safer months since launch carried out a range of activities.
We are in the process on their European travels.
of integrating our bespoke safety data system into our operations.
easyJet has developed the capability to Connecting with our customer is also core to the generate risk based safety oversight through the use of easyJet strategy.
The past year has seen a raft of intelligent systems.
These new initiatives will deliver innovations introduced across the business to improve further cost efficiencies whilst maintaining high levels the communication with the customer, from new ofsafety.
website information tools, an improved booking process, an expanded customer experience team.
As an acknowledged leader in the eld of Fatigue Risk Throughout the disruptions, be it the bad winter, the Management Systems FRMS easyJet continues political and industrial unrest, and the latest Icelandic towork with other world class entities to ensure eruption, we have been there for our customer maximum benefit is gained in terms of cost efficiencies throughout.
We spent the year introducing a raft of and crew utilisation.
In 2012 we will see FRMS linked as new measures to help better deal with disruption, an integral part of the operations team.
In this position including leaets, improved accommodation and the system will be well placed to deliver Quality catering support, and more efficient communication Assurance of roster delivery whilst maintaining strict tools.
Throughout these events we also added rescue regulatory compliance.
ights to our schedule to ensure that our customers easyJet is working closely with UK, EU and European reached their destinations as soon as possible.
governments and agencies to ensure there is a Finally at easyJet we take the welfare of our coordinated response to any future large scale air passengers extremely seriously whatever their needs trafc disruption caused by volcanic activity or weather and disabilities.
During this years Icelandic volcanic eruption passengers with reduced mobility from across Europe easyJet worked closely with the British authorities to and have worked closely with European disability provide advice on the whereabouts of the latest ash groups across various countries to improve our service cloud.
easyJet has since been appointed as one of the offering for this group of travellers, but without Governments strategic partners on this issue.
easyJet has also taken part in several international exercises simulating the effects of large scale volcanic Connecting with our people eruptions.
In parallel continued work alongside the Norwegian Institute for Air Research, to support the Our people make the difference, across all areas of our development of the innovative on board ash detection team, from cabin crew and pilots through to our radar AVOID, invented by Dr Fred Prata.
AVOID engineering teams and management and admin Airborne Volcanic Object Identier and Detector teams.
Our focus is to attract the right person technology is a system which uses infrared technology regardless of level within the business, and to keep built on the aircraft, similar to weather detectors them engaged in making travel easy and affordable for currently used, to enable pilots and ight control to see our passengers.
an ash cloud up to 100km ahead and at altitudes We also look for ways to operate more efficiently between 5,000ft and 50,000ft, and to amend their across all areas of the business to provide the best course to miss areas of ash cloud, and in effect open returns for our shareholders whilst maintaining the level up a larger area of airspace than might be available of service and satisfaction among our people to using existing data methods alone.
provide a quality service to our customers.
34 easyJet plc Corporate responsibility Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued 2011 saw a lot of work on ensuring a stable and efficient In addition to this and to ensure that our people remain crew planning and rostering approach to ensure that at their highest level and support their progression, this we could operate effectively through our busiest past year we have provided training at our bespoke summer months.
We increased standby across the easyJet training Academy to ensure our crews are all network, resourced at a base level and not a network up-to-date on the latest industry developments.
level as in previous years and worked on the resource Engagement planning and the rostering robustness.
Given this Recognising that there are proven links between an summers results, this has all been to good effect.
engaged workforce and excellence in customer service People strategy and business delivery, we have continued to focus on We have continued to implement our three-part the engagement of our people.
strategy to nd and retain the best people to deliver We have focused on making it easy for our people to our ambition of becoming Europes short-haul airline of do their work and listened to their ideas and feedback choice with market leading returns.
through various communication channels, including a weekly CEO call, EMT base visits across the European Talent network, and web chats and videos directly to our During the year we added to our existing talent pool by people.
recruiting some 1,371 cabin crew, 395 new pilots and 228 management and administrative staff.
We understand that good communication is vital within a business especially one which has such an Following the appointment of the new CEO towards extensive and multinational staff base to ensuring the end of the last financial year, we have grown and that key issues and matters are discussed with staff developed our Executive Management Team EMT, sothat we can react quickly and ensure our people with a new structure focused on building capability remain engaged in the business.
Communication is a across Europe, developing our business traveller two way task, enabling us to both listen to our peoples proposition and focusing on the customer.
This resulted views and disseminate messages to them, but also in new roles for some of the existing EMT members respond to their concerns.
and the appointment of a new Group Director IT, Group Director Marketing, Group Director Our at management structure enables us to pass Communications, Group Director People and Group messages across the team, directly to our people.
In support of our strategy to become Inaddition, through our company intranet, our people Europes preferred short-haul airline, we have appointed have an opportunity to use the various forums to Senior roles in each of our European countries to help highlight and discuss issues that affect them, and to us drive the implementation of our strategy and raise issues.
maximise our potential in each of these countries.
More formally, we communicate and discuss matters This year we have also made three new Non Executive with our employee representatives and partner a appointments to our PLC Board.
number of trade unions across Europe, ensuring two way communication across these partnerships.
We have spent time building our leadership teams and capability, ensuring that our leaders understand the All of our locations have funds allocated for the local evolving strategy, the associated business challenges groups to support local engagement initiatives at base.
and their roles in leading and engaging their teams to We have also begun a new redevelopment deliver on this.
programme of our main base crew rooms, including And the talent development doesnt only stop at the the construction of new ofces and rest facilities at top.
As part of our plans to build a talent pool for the specified locations.
As a part of this we have been future, 17 graduates from across Europe have been engaging with our people to ensure that the design recruited this year and a new graduate programme and refurbishment are reective of what works well for introduced.
As a result we plan to have introduced our teams locally, as well as meeting the needs of the approximately 100 highly capable graduates into our business going forward.
management pipeline within the next five years.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 35 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 uSay Turning Europe Orange For the second year running, we have conducted our Following the growth of our network, we continue to uSay staff survey, aimed at obtaining employee grow our presence across Europe to continue to feedback from everyone across our European strengthen our position as Europes only truly panorganisation as well as each of our main communities.
In 2011 our overall score has improved to 40%.
We will As at 30 September 2011, easyJet employed 8,288 be using the results to identify improvement areas and people 2010: 7,359, based throughout Europe as action on suggestions.
illustrated below: Organisation To succeed in our corporate ambitions, we need to United Kingdom 5,116 have high quality people with the right skills in the right Switzerland 666 place at the right time.
Our aim is to ensure that our France 774 people contribute more to our business than they Spain 614 would for any other employer.
We aim to ensure that Italy 797 we continue to recruit the best people in the roles and Germany 320 keep these people engaged in the business so that we Netherlands 1 can achieve these objectives.
Total 8,288 Following our strategic review we reshaped the organisation around a few key principles: Equality and diversity easyJet is an equal opportunities employer.
We ensure the customer is at the centre of all that we do: align that our people and applicants do not receive less the structure around our product delivery, ensuring favourable treatment on the basis of their age, colour, robust tracking systems monitor and advise on that creed, disability, full or part-time status, gender, marital needs to be achieved, ensuring clear accountability, status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual roles and responsibilities for our fundamental orientation.
Applications from disabled people are processes, putting in place simplied structures and always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes processes to facilitate good coordination securing of the applicant concerned.
In the event that one of the right people in the right places and improving our people becomes disabled every effort is made to tools and processes across the organisation ensure that their employment at easyJet continues and This year we have looked to improve all our recruitment training is arranged where appropriate.
programmes, placing emphasis on the candidate We are pleased to report that our gender ratio across experience and the assessment tools we use so that the organisation is 51:49 male : female and in the last we attract and retain the best.
year we have increased our female representation on We have also begun a programme of investment in the both the PLC Board and the EMT.
relationships we have with our people forums, such that we can have more of a partnership dialogue about Reward what is best for easyJet and our people.
In addition we easyJet offers a competitive rewards package and are establishing a European Works Council which is reviews salaries annually in line with market rates to currently at the stage of electing appropriate ensure continued alignment to the market.
The representatives across all countries.
rewards package includes an annual performancedriven bonus, based on personal and Company As with all businesses there are levels of staff attrition performance, which encourages all our people to that will occur and in 2011 our overall unforced staff contribute towards achieving our strategic objectives.
turnover was 9.69%, which was a slight increase Our UK people are also eligible to participate in a Group on2010.
personal pension towards which easyJet contributes to, as well as having the option to make their own contributions through salary sacrifice.
