The Groups long term aspirational goal is for zero lost time accidents, with stretching annual targets to deliver safety improvements.
During the year, we Corporate social responsibility can report good progress.
High profile branded Health and Safety campaigns were launched across the Group to raise awareness and develop wider safety engagement.
Target Zero in the UK, and Open Your Eyes in Europe have featured preventative campaigns on areas including slips, trips and falls and safety on staircases, with the content then shared broadly across the other Sound corporate responsibility regions.
These initiatives were supported by an increase in health and safety training courses which saw attendances exceed 8,700 people, which translates policies and practices are to over 1.5 courses for every employee in the business the highest ever recorded by the Group.
The Group placed a requirement for health and safety objectives to be set for all departments and managers in the UK, North America, Europe and Asia Pacific to broaden participation in the health and safety effort from the wider management population.
The Group Executive Committee and senior management conduct regular health and safety visits to our distribution centres and trade counters to reinforce the importance of this vital issue.
There were 73 GEC health and safety visits recorded during the year and 141 senior managers attended Policy and overview behavioural safety training aimed at reinforcing attitudes and behaviours We are committed to sound corporate social responsibility policies on health and safety: with the training being cascaded to all levels in the and practices as an integral part of our business.
We believe that the business this year.
progressive alignment of our values and strategy with responsible and ethical business policies and practices helps enhance employee engagement Despite an increase in workload of over 20% during the year and an increase and competitiveness, and is a driver for sustainable growth and success.
in the number of full-time employees across the Group, there was a 40% reduction in days lost to injury from 1,211 in 2010 to 737 in 2011 a significant The Board of Electrocomponents takes account of Corporate Social improvement.
There was a slight improvement in the lost time accident LTAs Responsibility CSR matters in our business operations.
The Group Chief rate recorded across the group from 1.05 LTAs per 200,000 hours worked in Executive is the Director responsible for CSR, environment and health and 2010 to 1.01 per 200,000 in 2011. safety across the business.
Electrocomponents plc is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
The Groups objective is to achieve long term behavioural change, promoting good practice and behaviours amongst all employees, regardless of whether The Group has a policy manual, Our Standards, which sets out the they are office-based, field-based or work at our distribution centres and trade standards of behaviour to which every employee is expected to work and counters.
To raise awareness, the Group has improved reporting of near-misses which defines the core values and principles we apply in dealing with our to reduce the potential of accidents happening and introduced regional health customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Our Standards covers gifts, and safety forums reporting to a global health and safety committee.
A Group hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, competition law, conflicts of Health and Safety Manager was also appointed in May 2011 and the Group is interest and respect for our employees.
We issue Our Standards annually committed to continually improving its health and safety performance.
to our management population across the Group in seven languages, using a web-based tool which ensures the manual has been received, Environment read, understood and accepted.
Our Standards is also available to all The Group Environmental Policy Statement, which is set out in Our Standards employees via the Group intranet site.
commits us to identifying and managing the environmental impacts associated The Group has an independently operated whistle-blowing facility called with our activities.
The policy and our implementation programmes support Speak Up.
This facility allows employees to report matters of concern in the Groups business strategy.
Our aims are to promote greater efficiency confidence using a telephone hotline, email or a web-based system.
During and progressively reduce our environmental impacts per unit of turnover.
the year, the scope of Speak Up was increased from UK and Asia Pacific to The most significant environmental impacts are carbon emissions due to include North America and Europe, so that it now operates Group-wide.
the consumption of energy at our facilities, the use of paper in our printed catalogues and packaging for our products, the generation of waste, and Health and Safety water use.
Health and Safety is of paramount importance to the Group and ensuring the safety of our 5,800 employees around the world is a primary concern.
We use a set of key performance indicators KPIs to assess and monitor the environmental performance of our sites and businesses.
The KPIs index We have taken positive steps to not only improve training and raise awareness relevant environmental impacts to sales to reflect performance allowing for of safety in the workplace, but long term also to develop the behaviours and business growth.
This enables us to benchmark individual areas of the Groups mindset of employees to ensure sustainable improvement can be achieved.
business and helps identify performance improvement opportunities.
The Group believes it will take three to five years to achieve this behavioural change fully and we are a year into this journey.
We encourage areas to gain certification to ISO14001:2004 Environmental Management Standard where this supports our business objectives.
57% of the Group by sales turnover is certificated to ISO14001.
30 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review The Groups long term aspirational goal is for zero lost time accidents, with Engaging with stretching annual targets to deliver safety improvements.
During the year, we Corporate social responsibility Corporate Responsibility can report good progress.
Target Zero in the UK, and Open Your Eyes in Europe have featured preventative campaigns on areas including slips, trips and falls and safety on staircases, with the content then shared broadly across the other We participate in and engage in a Sound corporate responsibility regions.
These initiatives were supported by an increase in health and safety number of external schemes including training courses which saw attendances exceed 8,700 people, which translates policies and practices are the FTSE4Good index and the Carbon to over 1.5 courses for every employee in the business the highest ever Disclosure Project, in which we were recorded by the Group.
recognised as a FTSE 350 sector leader.
The Group placed a requirement for health and safety objectives to be set In the UK our business has been for all departments and managers in the UK, North America, Europe and Asia Pacific to broaden participation in the health and safety effort from the wider granted patron status of the NSPCC.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Corporate social responsibility continued We aim continually to improve the quality and coverage of our environmental Paper and Packaging Tonnes CO per m turnover 2 reporting and have restated 2009 performance where appropriate, with all We continue to work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers KPIs on a constant currency basis and other adjustments to reflect more to reduce the carbon footprint of the paper catalogue.
This applies both in 25 24.5 accurately the prior years data.
All of our facilities across the Group report production and distribution, and we work to minimise weight and to maximise their environmental performance and this section covers the comparable efficiency.
As a result we have improved distribution efficiencies, reduced 20.2 20 data for calendar years 2009 and 2010. costs and cut our carbon footprint.
15 Emissions All the pulp for our paper catalogues are sourced from either the Sustainable The Group participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and in 2010 was Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited forests, with all the printing carried out 10 recognised as a FTSE 350 sector leader for its CO emissions performance in ISO14001 certificated facilities.
Our catalogues in the European and Asian 2 and reporting information.
markets all carry the PEFC chain of custody accreditation marks.
5 Our premises and operations infrastructure continue to be the primary source Our customer packaging is the subject of on-going review which aims to of our energy usage and carbon emissions, presenting a relatively fixed identify opportunities to reduce the quantity of packaging whilst ensuring 0 element of our carbon emissions footprint.
For 2010 this has meant that the customer orders are protected against damage whilst in transit.
2009 2010 level of energy and carbon emissions has stayed relatively flat at 78.6kg CO 2 The quantity of packaging consumed by the business increased significantly Calendar year 2 2 per m in 2010, against 78.2kg CO per m in 2009 despite the growth in the 2 during 2010 with a 20% increase in the total used, driven by the sales increases.
Groups sales, resulting in increases in overall efficiency.
There was an increase of 4% in the quantity of packaging per line ordered There was an increase of 1% in total energy usage in calendar year 2010 during the year, with the development of the Production Packaging customer relative to 2009.
This was against a 20% year on year increase in sales across offer for electronics introducing a new packaging stream to the business.
The UK is the primary reserve stock location for the Group, and the increase As a result, 2010 saw an improvement of around 17% in energy intensity in sales in Europe and Asia Pacific resulted in an increase in demand for tonnes of CO per m turnover.
This has been driven primarily by sales international transit packaging from the UK which also contributed to the 2 growth, with contributions also from continuing local energy efficiency 4% increase.
initiatives, including for example energy efficient lighting projects in the Waste larger businesses, including in the UK, North America and Europe.
The total quantity of waste produced across the Group in 2010 was 3,074 The Group is investing 500,000 this year in new video-conferencing facilities tonnes, remaining broadly consistent with that reported in 2009. to improve our international communications, which should also reduce overall The uplift in sales in 2010 produced an 18% improvement in waste intensity travel costs and carbon emissions.
kilogrammes of waste per k turnover over 2009.
The UK business participates in the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Recycling rates across the Group improved by 3% points to 74% in 2010.
Efficiency scheme, requiring the monitoring and reporting of energy usage and A recycling initiative in our North American business resulted in the tonnage the related emissions on an annual basis.
We purchase a number of carbon of waste disposed of to landfill being halved over that for 2009. allowances to account for the emissions for which we are responsible.
The UK business continues as a member of the Carbon Trust Standard, and was The UK started an initiative to significantly reduce landfill waste from its larger independently verified to confirm year on year reduction in carbon emissions.
The ultimate aspirational goal is to achieve a zero to landfill objective for the site.
Emissions KPIs 2 We emphasise the importance of waste reduction and recycling initiatives Total Emissions Tonnes CO2 per Kg CO2 per m Tonnes CO2 m Turnover Floor area across the business by spreading best practice, including for example moving to electronic invoicing, inclusion of buyback clauses in supplier contracts and 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 reuse of transit packaging.
CO2 due to premises Waste and recycling KPIs # energy use 22,943 23,015 20.2 24.5 78.6 78.2 Total waste tonnes Kg waste k turnover CO equivalent from all energy sources, including country specific CO factors for electricity 2010 2009 2010 2009 2 2 # Excludes a number of smaller facilities where utilities are included in lease costs Total waste 3,074 3,080 2.7 3.3 Waste recycled tonnes % of total waste recycled 2010 2009 2010 2009 Waste reused recycled 2,268 2,196 74% 71% Water The Group continues to work to reduce water consumption and in calendar year 2010 total water use and water use per employee was down.
The Groups use of water is primarily for domestic and fire safety purposes, such as catering, washroom purposes, and water sprinkler systems.
Total water consumption across the Group reduced by around 2% in 2010 relative to 2009, with consumption per employee reducing by around 3%.
The improvement was driven by reductions in consumption reported in North America, Italy and South East Asia where local initiatives such as tighter control of irrigation of green spaces, improved metering of supplies and monitoring of consumption have had positive effects.
32 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Tonnes CO2 per m turnover Business review Paper and Packaging We continue to work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers to reduce the carbon footprint of the paper catalogue.
This applies both in production and distribution, and we work to minimise weight and to maximise efficiency.
As a result we have improved distribution efficiencies, reduced costs and cut our carbon footprint.
All the pulp for our paper catalogues are sourced from either the Sustainable Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited forests, with all the printing carried out in ISO14001 certificated facilities.
Our catalogues in the European and Asian markets all carry the PEFC chain of custody accreditation marks.
Our customer packaging is the subject of on-going review which aims to identify opportunities to reduce the quantity of packaging whilst ensuring customer orders are protected against damage whilst in transit.
The quantity of packaging consumed by the business increased significantly during 2010 with a 20% increase in the total used, driven by the sales increases.
There was an increase of 4% in the quantity of packaging per line ordered during the year, with the development of the Production Packaging customer offer for electronics introducing a new packaging stream to the business.
The UK is the primary reserve stock location for the Group, and the increase in sales in Europe and Asia Pacific resulted in an increase in demand for international transit packaging from the UK which also contributed to the 4% increase.
Waste Kg waste per k turnover The total quantity of waste produced across the Group in 2010 was 3,074 tonnes, remaining broadly consistent with that reported in 2009.
4 The uplift in sales in 2010 produced an 18% improvement in waste intensity 3.3 kilogrammes of waste per k turnover over 2009.
3 2.7 Recycling rates across the Group improved by 3% points to 74% in 2010.
A recycling initiative in our North American business resulted in the tonnage 2 of waste disposed of to landfill being halved over that for 2009.
The UK started an initiative to significantly reduce landfill waste from its larger 1 distribution centre.
0 We emphasise the importance of waste reduction and recycling initiatives 2009 2010 across the business by spreading best practice, including for example moving Calendar year to electronic invoicing, inclusion of buyback clauses in supplier contracts and reuse of transit packaging.
Waste and recycling KPIs Waste reused recycled Total waste tonnes Kg waste k turnover 2010 2009 2010 2009 % Total waste 3,074 3,080 2.7 3.3 74 Waste recycled tonnes % of total waste recycled 2010 2009 2010 2009 Waste reused recycled 2,268 2,196 74% 71% Water The Group continues to work to reduce water consumption and in calendar year 2010 total water use and water use per employee was down.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Kg waste per k turnover Corporate social responsibility continued These gains were partially offset by a significant increase in water consumption Community and Charity reported from France, where fire protection improvements to the warehouse We have around 5,800 employees globally, located in 32 markets.
It is a resulted in the water sprinkler systems being drained and refilled on a number fundamental Group value that we interact with and support the people and of occasions during the commissioning process.
communities where our offices are located.
Water KPIs Through our offices and distribution centres we have very strong links to our Total Water Consumption per local communities and we positively encourage and support our employees 3 Consumption m employee Litres to be involved with charitable activities.
2010 2009 2010 2009 The emphasis is on local focus as opposed to a central or corporate policy, Total Water Use 40,929 41,809 7,536 7,737 consequently there are many smaller activities conducted locally rather than one or two large global initiatives.
Examples of such local initiatives Our People are detailed below: We value the commitment of our employees.
We respect the rights of every During the year, our UK business was granted patron status of the childrens employee and, regardless of circumstances, we aim to treat our employees charity, the NSPCC.
This was recognition for donations by employees with dignity and consideration.
Our employment policies are designed to in excess of 150,000 through a salary donation scheme and through attract, retain, motivate and train our people and to respect their rights.
We organised events: our UK business is proud to have a ten-year association provide training and personal and professional development opportunities to with the NSPCC.
equip employees with the necessary skills to carry out their roles and to provide career growth opportunities and job satisfaction.
Our UK businesss call centre supported the UKs Comic Relief charity as part of the donation network across the country for Red Nose Day 2011.
We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity with regard to our Over 150 volunteers made up of RS staff, friends and family members employment practices and procedures.
No employee or prospective employee manned the call centre during the evening of Red Nose Day to take should receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, ethnic donations and pledges.
Over 4,200 calls were handled which generated or national origin, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, age or disability, 130,000 for Comic Relief.
or any other factor that is not justified in law or relevant to the requirements of the job.
Our Asia Pacific management team donated 5,000 to our employees in Japan to donate to a charity of their choice in the wake of the March 2011 This year, we strengthened our Executive team with three key appointments: earthquake and tsunami.
Keith Reville, joining from Orange where he was Director of Online Sales, to head up our eCommerce team, Phil Cook previously Chief Information Officer In North America, our Allied business is an active participant in a number of of BAT to lead our Global Information Systems team and Nigel Main, previously community initiatives including: the United Way, the Future City Competition communications director for EMEAI at Wyndham Exchange and Rentals, to and the Battered Womens Foundation.
We intensified the global roll out of our Supporting education is a key theme for our UK business.
We are a sponsor Leadership Coaching Programme throughout the business.
of the local Business Academy and an active participant in the Young The implementation of a global recruitment system in 2010 ensures we can Enterprise Scheme and Enterprise in Action.
We also support a Mentor provide potential candidates with complete visibility of all vacancies throughout programme for teenage children in local schools.
Our market leading use of social media tools such as LinkedIn to The Group supports its employees efforts to raise funds and increase attract and vet the best candidates has enabled us to increase quality whilst awareness of personal worthy causes, as well as organising events for significantly reducing cost.
In 2010, UK based employees raised over 50,000 Building a Great Place to Work continues to be a strategic focus for us for various charities, including: the Lakelands Day Care Hospice, throughout the Group with Continuous Improvement and Health and Safety Help for Heroes, the Riding School for the Disabled, Warwickshire being key elements of this strategy.
The Executive team also launched & Northamptonshire Air Ambulance, Rosie Weaver Campaign and Face2Face, our award-winning employee communication programme in the George Eliot School.
UK, and have held similar sessions around the Group.
We regularly measure progress against our employee engagement targets through employee surveys Verification and have achieved consistently positive results.
Electrocomponents evaluates its CR policies and performance as part of its risk management and internal audit processes.
Those locations During the year a business-wide initiative was undertaken to crystallise certificated to ISO9001, ISO14001 and OSHAS18001 have regular audits the organisational values we have now, recognising the evolution we have by external agencies.
5,000 of our employees were invited to respond with their views on what our values should be and the kind of behaviours we should Our environmental reporting processes and data are reviewed by our Group expect from one another.
Over 50 focus groups were conducted amongst over Risk Manager working with external consultants to verify, where appropriate, 400 employees to take initial responses and refine them into a simple set of our environmental key performance indicators.
words, phrases, actions and behaviours.
These will reflect the best qualities We consider that these procedures provide a reasonable level of assurance of what we do now, but also set aspirational values to evolve the organisation that our non-financial key performance indicators are free from material and culture to be a better, more satisfying place to work in as an employer and misstatement.
Whilst we have considered the potential for further external a more customer focused dynamic business for our customers, suppliers and verification of the Groups CR performance we have decided that currently stakeholders.
Our new values will be launched across the Group in the autumn we will limit this to external professional advice on specific matters as required.
34 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Community and Charity Corporate Responsibility We have around 5,800 employees globally, located in 32 markets.
It is a in action fundamental Group value that we interact with and support the people and communities where our offices are located.
Through our offices and distribution centres we have very strong links to our local communities and we positively encourage and support our employees Our offices and distribution centres to be involved with charitable activities.
have very strong links to our local The emphasis is on local focus as opposed to a central or corporate policy, communities and we positively consequently there are many smaller activities conducted locally rather encourage and support our employees than one or two large global initiatives.
Examples of such local initiatives to be involved with charitable activities.
are detailed below: During the year, our UK business was granted patron status of the childrens charity, the NSPCC.
This was recognition for donations by employees in excess of 150,000 through a salary donation scheme and through organised events: our UK business is proud to have a ten-year association with the NSPCC.
Over 150 volunteers made up of RS staff, friends and family members manned the call centre during the evening of Red Nose Day to take donations and pledges.
Over 4,200 calls were handled which generated 130,000 for Comic Relief.
Our Asia Pacific management team donated 5,000 to our employees in Japan to donate to a charity of their choice in the wake of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.
In North America, our Allied business is an active participant in a number of community initiatives including: the United Way, the Future City Competition and the Battered Womens Foundation.
Supporting education is a key theme for our UK business.
We are a sponsor of the local Business Academy and an active participant in the Young Enterprise Scheme and Enterprise in Action.
We also support a Mentor programme for teenage children in local schools.
The Group supports its employees efforts to raise funds and increase awareness of personal worthy causes, as well as organising events for national charities.
In 2010, UK based employees raised over 50,000 for various charities, including: the Lakelands Day Care Hospice, Help for Heroes, the Riding School for the Disabled, Warwickshire & Northamptonshire Air Ambulance, Rosie Weaver Campaign and George Eliot School.
Verification Electrocomponents evaluates its CR policies and performance as part of its risk management and internal audit processes.
Those locations certificated to ISO9001, ISO14001 and OSHAS18001 have regular audits by external agencies.
Our environmental reporting processes and data are reviewed by our Group Risk Manager working with external consultants to verify, where appropriate, our environmental key performance indicators.
We consider that these procedures provide a reasonable level of assurance that our non-financial key performance indicators are free from material misstatement.
Whilst we have considered the potential for further external verification of the Groups CR performance we have decided that currently we will limit this to external professional advice on specific matters as required.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
