19 cOrpOrAte sOciAl respOnsibility repOrt INTRODUCTION Business ethics and Anti-bribery and corruption ABC Elementis takes its corporate social responsibilities CSR seriously.
In June 2011, the Elementis Code of Business Conduct and Ethics From public and employee safety to environmental awareness, the Code was updated to reflect evolving standards articulated supply chain responsibility to business ethics, the Company by US regulators and courts in various documents and contexts, recognises that how it performs in this important area of our business including in the US Sentencing Guidelines provisions regarding activities is critical to the long term success of the Company, which is the elements of an effective compliance programme, and our why the Chief Executive is responsible for CSR matters at Board level.
anti-corruption policy was updated to reflect the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the guidance issued by the Ministry of Justice.
The Code, which includes appropriate anti-harassment, anti-retaliation and whistleblowing policies, helps employees understand the standards of ethical business practices that are expected from them at work and to be aware of ethical and legal issues that they may encounter in the course of carrying out their duties and responsibilities.
Elementis joined the FTSE4Good index in September 2009 The Elementis compliance programme, which incorporates compliance as to ABC risks, includes top level commitment by the The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good index, a leading Board and senior management as to compliance, communication global responsible investment index, and its CSR activities are and training programmes in multiple languages, risk assessments, centred on four core areas: people, community, environment due diligence procedures and monitoring and review processes.
Elementis employees are required to complete training on the Code and then self-certify that they understand and agree to be bound by PEOPLE its provisions.
In addition, Elementis businesses require independent A key differentiator between Elementis and its competitors is our contractors, consultants, agents and sales representatives who people, who remain our most valuable asset.
The long term success represent the Group to agree to the same high standards as the of the Group depends on the passion, attitude, commitment and Groups employees while working on Group business.
work ethic of all our employees around the world.
This Elementis can do mentality is encouraged by a strong culture of performance, A summary of the key features of the Code is on our website at: leadership and success, with a focus on innovation and customer www.
com  service, and is supported by Group policies, training and guidelines.
health and safety We have a global workforce including contractors and temporary The health and safety of Elementis employees is paramount as is workers of over 1,300 spread across three continents 42 per cent overseeing the safety of contractors and visitors on our premises.
in North America, 27 per cent in Europe and 31 per cent in Asia.
The Groups policies, practices and performance are reviewed A summary of our employment policies is set out in the Directors routinely by senior operations management.
Our activities in this report on page 28.
Gender diversity in the workplace is a current area are supported by guidance and training from both internal focus of governance in UK public companies.
Elementis is and external subject experts.
A programme of health and safety committed to equality of opportunity and firmly believes that compliance audits is undertaken on a three year rolling cycle.
women contribute equally in the workplace.
However, it does An incident notification and reporting system is in place to ensure not consider targets or quotas to be appropriate for increasing that all recordable safety incidents are reported to the Board and the percentage of women in management positions.
Investigations are carried out following any information on this is in the Corporate governance report.
incidents, including near misses, and appropriate corrective action Our HR policies seek to ensure that people from any background is taken to mitigate the risk of their recurrence.
Safety incidents or gender have equal access to employment, training and and improvements are highlighted in bulletins that are shared promotion opportunities and we base our decisions on objective throughout Group sites to raise awareness of safety issues among criteria and merit so that the best qualified person is the one who employees in all operating and office sites.
A summary of the Groups policy on health, safety and environmental matters can be found on the Groups website at: www.
com  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 20 cOrpOrAte sOciAl respOnsibility repOrt continued safety performance Recordable incident rate The Company continually strives to eliminate accidents and injuries Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked within the workplace.
We seek to achieve this through maintaining 4.0 our strong focus on, and commitment to, safety design, a safe environment, setting and communicating safety standards, training, 3.0 encouraging safe behaviour and developing a company culture that emphasises and supports all of these.
2.0 The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of safety performance.
Recordable incidents, as defined by the 1.0 US Occupational Safety & Health Administration, are work related injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first 0.0 aid.
To monitor performance and trends among more serious injuries 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and illnesses, the Group also records lost time accidents LTAs, Elementis as defined by the UK Health & Safety Executive greater than three ACC Responsible Care companies days lost, not including day of incident.
US chemical general rate The number of recordable incidents across the Group in 2011 was Comparator group trend is shown only for periods where data is available.
Despite the slight increase in the number of recordable incidents over the past two years, the majority of the incidents both In terms of LTAs, five of the recordable incidents were classed as in 2011 and the preceding year are due to slips and trips, sprains and LTAs in 2011 2010: four, which equates to a rate of 0.20 LTAs per unsafe acts or behaviours that were avoidable.
Board and management team are determined to reverse the trend.
As a result, new safety initiatives were introduced to strengthen To ensure comprehensive monitoring of our safety performance, safety behaviour and management see below.
Senior management Elementis also records and reports separately the recordable injury support is given to operations managers to ensure that sufficient rate for contractors working at our sites.
Contractors are closely priority is given to safety.
Key safety initiatives and performance are supervised and are subject to compliance with Elementis safe built into each operations managers objectives.
Incidents, including systems of work.
As a result, the safety performance of contractors near misses, are investigated thoroughly to establish root causes and is generally comparable to that for Elementis employees.
A solid year identify appropriate corrective actions.
The Board takes a close for contractor safety led to zero recordable injuries to contractors on interest in safety performance and is committed to continual Elementis sites.
The contractor recordable injury rate in 2011 was improvement in safety performance.
As well as the total number of recordable incidents, the Board safety improvement initiatives started in 2011 monitors the overall trend, or the recordable incident rate, which for A comprehensive review of our basic safety processes was 2011 was 1.20 per 200,000 hours worked 2010: 1.10.
Notwithstanding undertaken in 2011 and relaunched at sites on a prioritised basis.
the slight increase in recordable incidents last year, in industry terms, This is a structured approach that emphasises safety leadership our performance is comparable with companies that are generally starting with the site leader and cascading throughout the viewed as having good safety performance based on American organisation.
This leadership brings together safety policies and Chemistry Council Responsible Care statistics.
For comparison, procedures, behavioural safety, active communication including the recordable incident rate for the general chemical industry in the shift changeover and safety toolbox talks and safety inspections.
US is 2.3 per 200,000 hours 2009, latest data available.
Safety training is recognised as a key aspect to working safely.
A significant improvement has been made in the way safety training is conducted to make sure all training requirements are recognised, conducted in a timely way and then audited to ensure comprehension and completeness.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 21 Keeping track of safety related actions and reporting can be a Employee social events complex task.
To help manage this, a new compliance calendar Throughout the year, social activities are held at various site locations database has been introduced to ensure that all safety related actions for employees and often their families.
As examples in 2011, these are completed in a timely manner.
In addition, corporate policies have included: the annual Elementis Cup football tournament in have been strengthened with a revised policy on personal protective Delden, Netherlands which 100 employees participated in: our equipment and a comprehensive electrical safety procedure to Hightstown and Jersey City locations in New Jersey invited Santa increase the emphasis on arc flash safety, expanded work permit to a Saturday brunch just before the holiday season which was requirements where energy sources are present and improved attended by over 150 employees and their families: at both the labelling of electrical components.
Songjiang and Hsinchu plants, in Shanghai, China and Taiwan respectively, employees were recognised for five year service training provision milestones in celebratory presentations: and also at the Hsinchu plant, The Group provides a wide range of training courses to its employees, a sports day was held in April with over 100 participants and a family some of which are mandatory for all employees, such as training day was held in October with nearly 200 employees and their families.
on the Code or on ABC compliance, whereas others are mandatory depending on the job, role or position.
These courses include topics COmmUNITy such as: Global mutual respect, Human rights, Environmental Elementis understands the need to work with local communities to stewardship, Anti-trust, Privacy and data protection and provide information on its activities and be a responsible neighbour.
A number of new courses were introduced in The Group continues to be a sponsoring partner of the Mojave 2011: Preventing workplace violence, Global substance abuse, Environmental Education Consortium MEEC, a partnership and UK Bribery Act.
Employees in professional or managerial roles programme between businesses and state departments and may also undertake additional training or professional development agencies, which provides many environmental education activities at the expense of the Company and there is great emphasis programmes and resources for teachers and students.
at sites on health and safety training.
Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and Fundamental human rights supporting employees to be active in their communities through Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of all its volunteer work or fundraising.
The Company has guidelines for employees and all those who may be affected by our business charitable giving but does not dictate any specific areas or priority activities.
These include, for example, the right to the freedom of for corporate support.
This approach is designed to encourage speech, thought, movement, association, a right to privacy and to management and employees at individual sites to focus on local make decisions and contracts, and a right to equality of treatment, issues and to take the initiative.
Their efforts are often rewarded by protection and non-discrimination.
While the application of some either a Company donation or programme that matches amounts of these principles have centred on employment practices, such as raised by employees.
child or forced labour, these concepts can have daily application in many different aspects of our activities.
Employees can expect Our employees have continued to develop the relationships that have to be treated fairly, with dignity and respect.
Anti-harassment and been cultivated over the past few years, such as the Cape Fear Area anti-retaliation policies and grievance procedures all allow employees United Way in Wilmington, North Carolina and United Way of Greater to speak freely and openly.
Our employment policies recognise Milwaukee.
United Way is a network of volunteer-driven, non-profit the right of employees to join a union and to be treated equally organisations that work with many other partners and programmes without discrimination.
to address many different areas of need in local communities, such as homelessness, poverty, unemployment, education or health related The Company further recognises that its contractors, customers and needs.
Elementis continues to sponsor a child from Belarus through suppliers where relevant also have a right to expect the Group to the work of the Friends of Chernobyls Children, a UK registered respect their wider fundamental human rights and is supportive of charity.
We made a five year commitment in 2010 to this charity and this view.
This may mean we respect the right of our customers or the child, Sasha, who is now eight.
Our sponsorship means Sasha suppliers to take their business elsewhere or to negotiate their terms can spend a month in the UK every Summer for five years and stay of business.
This extends to taking customer complaints seriously.
with a host family to experience a wide range of educational and These are just a few examples of how our support for fundamental sports related activities that many children in the UK take for granted human rights can translate into action and good business practices.
but which Sasha and other children like him can only dream of.
An important caveat to all of this, however, is that the Group can strive In 2011, the Group made charitable donations of $51,113 to uphold the fundamental rights of its employees worldwide and 2010: $56,040 to a wide range of groups and organisations support the rights of its contractors, customers, suppliers and wider supporting many different causes.
As well as the examples given, stakeholders where relevant, but only insofar as the rights of the organisations and groups supported last year include local youth individual do not conflict with those of the Company or its duties or and sports clubs, schools, arts groups, hospice and other welfare legal and other obligations.
In this respect, the Code sets standards related groups and medical research health related charities.
and provides guidance to ensure that all relevant and applicable laws and regulations are fully complied with and, wherever relevant or practicable, consideration is taken in business decisions of the wider fundamental human rights of all employees, contractors, customers and suppliers.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 22 cOrpOrAte sOciAl respOnsibility repOrt continued ENvIRONmENT In 2011 Elementis experienced one Tier 3 incident 2010: zero Tier 2 or Elementis operates its facilities in an environmentally responsible Tier 3.
This incident involved an over-filled residual oil tank, resulting manner.
We view compliance with all applicable regulatory in a spill in a local containment area that was remediated and fully requirements and other codes of practice as our minimum restored.
The incident involved no injury and, while the regulatory standard.
Our sustainable development strategy requires that authorities were notified, no regulatory action was taken against we work proactively to reduce emissions, minimise waste from Elementis.
The Tier 3 classification was solely due to the remediation our processes, conserve valuable natural resources and ensure costs exceeding an Elementis defined threshold of $25,000.
responsible product stewardship throughout the supply chain.
Emissions to air, discharges to water and waste disposal are regulated In addition to complying with environmental regulatory reporting by external authorities and controlled carefully within Elementis.
requirements, Elementis records and categorises incidents into tiers Table 1 shows our performance in this area as well as our water based on the severity of the incident on the environment or actions and energy usage over the past three years.
Tier 3 incidents are those that have an impact on the environment and require reporting to an external Some of the data presented in Table 1 is influenced by production authority, who are likely to take action, or where the clean-up costs levels, so an increase or decrease does not necessarily mean our exceed a self-imposed threshold of $25,000.
Tier 2 incidents have a performance in these areas has improved or deteriorated.
The impact minor impact and require notification but are likely to result in minimal on levels of production as a result of the economic recovery in 2010, or no action by the authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require no external the recession and the closure of the Eaglescliffe facility in 2009 are reporting and are recorded internally and investigated so that reflected in the data for these years.
The columns showing per tonne continual improvements can be made to reduce the likelihood of production are affected by changes in the product mix and plant of future Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
As is standard practice in the chemical industry, some emission values may be calculated from energy use or based on Environmental performance samples rather than continuous monitoring.
However, environmental Our target is to comply with all environmental regulations and emissions, discharges and solid waste data are subject to periodic permits, with zero environmental incidents classed as Elementis internal audits to ensure accuracy and consistency of reporting.
Table 1 Environmental performance 2011 2010 2009 per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production CO emissions tonnes 200 0.74 261 0.99 206 1.01 2 3 Water consumed m 1,889 6.97 1,848 6.99 1,263 6.21 Energy consumed GJ 4,862 12.1 4,926 12.1 4,306 13.5 per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of 000s production 000s production 000s production Hazardous waste disposed tonnes 1.54 5.67 1.20 4.54 3.02 14.86 Non-hazardous waste disposed tonnes 116 431 114 433 87 426 Emissions to air installation of a new and more energy efficient spray drier at our As reported in previous annual reports, Elementis is aware that Newberry facility where production levels in 2011 increased by greenhouse gas GHG emissions, such as carbon dioxide CO, seven per cent but CO emissions fell by 14 per cent.
These projects 2 2 are linked to global warming and climate change.
The Group is have helped to improve our performance in 2011. committed to reducing, wherever it can, its emissions of GHGs and complies with relevant national CO reduction schemes, such The Groups operations also result in some emissions of the oxides 2 as the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment energy efficiency scheme.
of sulphur and nitrogen, which can cause acid rain.
Volatile organic Elementis made a significant reduction in CO emissions from April compounds, where emitted, can damage soil and ground water 2 2011 when the chromate kilns in the chromium plant at Castle Hayne or combine with nitrogen oxide to cause smog.
However, all these were converted from using oil to natural gas.
This led to a 35 per cent emissions are controlled to comply with regulatory permits and, reduction in the volume of CO emissions at this facility against the as the volumes are not considered to be significant, they are not 2 previous year.
Our overall emission levels also benefited from the reported here.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 23 Discharges to water The Group encourages the re-use, reduction and recycling of general Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we operate is vital office waste and recycling schemes are in place at various office to protect the ecosystems and communities in which we operate.
The amount of general office waste is not reported The Groups production activity generates process effluent with low separately from non-hazardous waste, as the volumes are not concentrations of organic material that are discharged to water.
This is measured as chemical and biological oxygen demand.
These are regulated by external authorities and managed carefully product stewardship by Elementis.
However, the volumes of these discharges are not Elementis recognises its responsibility to ensure that its products are considered to be significant and are not reported here.
safe for human health and the environment.
Each employee takes responsibility to ensure health, safety and environmental protection There were no emissions to air or discharges to water above are a part of their daily activities.
regulatory permitted levels in 2011 2010: zero which would classify as a Tier 2 or Tier 3 incident.
These incidents will continue to be Safe product use is guided by our extensive experience with our reported each year under environmental incidents.
products, third party studies and meeting global regulatory requirements.
Safe handling, transport and disposal information Water consumption are communicated to our employees, customers and the general Generally, the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water public via technical bulletins, safety data sheets SDS and labelling.
shortage and recognises that water is a valuable resource which needs These communications are further enhanced by product safety to be conserved.
Water consumption is therefore minimised where discussions with our employees, suppliers, distributors and possible by treatment and recycling.
To illustrate how extensive our interactions with wider stakeholders are, each year our product stewardship team manages Water consumption is related to production output, product mix responses to several thousand product safety and compliance and plant utilisation, and this is reflected in Table 1. questions from our customers and regulatory authorities.
These questions have in the past concerned how we address wider CSR Energy consumption issues, such as: climate change, animal testing, human rights and As the Group uses a range of fuel sources purchased conventionally supply chain responsibility, environmental management, safety and in a variety of units, we report usage in gigajoules GJ to provide quality systems and sustainable development matters.
We practice a consistent and coordinated approach to regulatory The Group is committed to reducing, wherever it can, its compliance at a state, national, regional and global level.
We support consumption of energy because the use of fossil fuels in energy voluntary industry efforts and engage stakeholders in both industry production can contribute to global warming in the form of GHG.
and government authorities to enable regulations based upon An example of this commitment is the action taken by the Group to established scientific risk assessment and risk management principles.
move towards cleaner energy sources, such as replacing our use of Our goal is to ensure regulations that are predictable, flexible and oil with greater use of natural gas.
In 2011, natural gas represented capable of responsibly addressing societys economic, environmental 69 per cent of our consumption of fossil fuels gas, oil and coal and safety requirements.
measured in consistent energy GJ units.
The comparative level in 2010 for gas was 28 per cent.
This result is largely attributable to the project described previously at our Castle Hayne facility.
There is also the added incentive that energy is an expensive resource and its efficient use has a significant effect on the cost of production.
solid waste As part of our commitment to sustainable development, Elementis seeks to minimise the quantity of all types of waste.
The quantity of hazardous waste resulting from our operations has reduced significantly over the last decade.
The increase in hazardous waste in 2011 is attributable to a number of factors including: timing of licensed disposal of hazardous waste generated as part of our operations that is carried out periodically at the Delden and Jersey City sites: decommissioning of the Eaglescliffe UK chromium site: and disposal of kiln bricks at Castle Hayne to licensed disposal sites.
Non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled as far as possible.
Non-hazardous waste is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln operations, which is deposited in our own permitted impoundments and licensed landfill sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 24 cOrpOrAte sOciAl respOnsibility repOrt continued Through our product stewardship team, Elementis continues to R&D and sustainable development be fully engaged in the European REACh programme and began Among others, our R&D projects continue to be driven by the a robust and comprehensive programme in 2011 to fulfil its 2013 Tier 2 specific objectives of: REACh obligations.
We continue to support our global customers and markets through our Only Representative services under REACh r eduction in the use of materials that contribute to covering imports into Europe by Elementis entities and key customers.
greenhouse gases: The product stewardship team continues to be actively involved in many consortia coordinating the REACh registration of our most development of new biodegradable products for use in important product categories.
We continue providing active support aqueous environments: and to consortia and organisations such as CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council and SIEF Substance Information Exchange Forum.
expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
In addition to complying with the REACh regulatory requirements Following a collaborative project, many global coatings producers for our products during 2011, Elementis continued to focus on have adopted our new zero-VOC volatile organic compounds compliance with the United Nations GHS Globally Harmonized rheological additives to replace additives that contain high levels System hazard communications standard as it is implemented of VOC.
Our zero-VOC range of additives ensure the desired level around the world.
Elementis is very pleased to report that the of performance is maintained to enable a high quality coating.
necessary GHS safety data sheets and labels were available for its products in China, when that countrys new GHS regulation went into Our recent efforts have also led to new products that are non-toxic effect towards the end of 2011.
Further, as many countries in Asia and to marine organisms and that are biodegradable, being introduced Latin America are implementing new, or revising existing, chemical for use in oil and gas exploration and recovery.
control regulations, Elementis is actively meeting these new regulations in our global markets.
We are also working closely with external agencies to speed up our development programmes that expand our portfolio of bioElementis also continues to work with non-governmental based materials.
organisations and expert panels, such as the Centre for Environment, Fisheries & Aquaculture Science Cefas and the Cosmetic Ingredient Our commitment to these and other environmentally friendly Review CIR, by providing data and comment that supports their initiatives remains very high.
safety reviews of our products in a broad range of applications from oil production to cosmetics.
Biodiversity Elementis takes care to ensure that its activities do not cause long Finally, at Elementis we have a robust and innovative global product term damage to the biodiversity in the areas where it has operations.
stewardship programme to evaluate, review and monitor all stages of In this regard, the Group has policies and systems in place to ensure a products life cycle and ensure continuous improvement in how we full compliance with environmental requirements.
assess hazards, risks, and regulatory compliance for each product.
BUSINESS RELATIONShIPS Customers Each of our business strategies has as its cornerstone superior customer service with a focus on offering value added high quality solutions that are supported by strong technical service.
Best in class customer service and product innovation are critical elements in helping our customers be successful and in how we differentiate ourselves from competition.
We monitor our performance with metrics such as OTIF on-time, in full delivery and new product introductions.
We develop and nurture close customer relationships through our key account business process, our participation in trade shows and industry forums, as well as conducting numerous group workshops, training seminars and hosting collaborative laboratory sessions to work with customers one-on-one.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 25 In terms of quality management systems, all ten of our global Elementis has also reviewed its supply chain to ensure that our manufacturing facilities in the Specialty Products and Surfactants products and supply chain are not impacted by international businesses are certified to the ISO 9001 standard.
Our Chromium rules on conflict minerals.
Conflict minerals are absent from business uses unique product delivery systems that supply our supply chain.
high quality products to its customers and which incorporate many of the elements of ISO 9000.
Our sites also apply the 5S workplace Another area of focus has been our emphasis on materials and organisation methodology which uses standardised work procedures packaging recyclability or reuseability and we are expanding to simplify the work environment, reducing waste and non-value initiatives across our global network.
For example, we have for adding activity while improving quality, efficiency and safety.
a number of years been a member of the German Repasack Our quality systems utilise statistical process control and techniques paper bag recycling programme for organoclay products.
to ensure product quality and consistency, and to drive process The Repasack programme in Germany is responsible for improvements.
recycling up to Euros 8 billion of packaging materials every year.
suppliers and supply chain To demonstrate our continuing efforts to utilise sustainable sources, The Elementis global sourcing team continues to promote social the value of plant-based materials used in our coatings additives and responsibility, environmental awareness, trade compliance and consumer products businesses at the end of 2011 was $11.3 million, anti-corruption within our worldwide supply base.
Our purchasing an increase of $3.7 million or 48 per cent over the previous year.
code of practice was updated towards the end of the year to underline our commitment to address these issues throughout our worldwide supply chains.
We continue to successfully participate in customer and supplier surveys and our supplier audit programme has been stepped up to focus on these topical issues.
On 1 January 2012 the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 SB 657 became law in the State of California.
This legislation seeks to end slavery and human trafficking and requires companies to disclose their efforts to ensure that their supply chains are free from these activities.
Elementis supports international labour laws that seek to prohibit slavery and human trafficking.
As a responsible corporate citizen, we seek to ensure that quality and safety standards are maintained throughout our supply chain by well treated, fairly compensated workers in accordance with all applicable laws.
We have adopted a number of initiatives to ensure and verify the absence of slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain.
These include: risk assessments and audits: acknowledgement of standards by suppliers and verification of compliance with our purchasing code of practice: sanctions for non-compliance non-adherence: and training and communication.
Further information can be found on our website at: www.
com   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview
