cORpORatE sOcIal REspOnsIBIlIty cOllaBORatIVE Fellowship, mutual trust, cORpORatE sOcIal knowledge sharing and teamwork REspOnsIBIlIty REVIEW agIlE FOcus Nimble behaviour Relentlessly focused from a responsive on results, accountable and flexible team and entrusted cREatIVE Creativity and innovation to embrace new ideas and deliver solutions REspEct Respect is paramount, for people, safety and the environment passIOn A passionate, enthusiastic and committed organisation EmpOWERmEnt An empowered workforce is fundamental to success EnQuest PLC 34 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BusInEss REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Safeguarding our people and Our efforts to promote a healthy aligning the workforce behind our key ourenvironment working environment across performance indicators.
These are Our focus on the safety of our the Company achieved external supplemented by Town Hall events staff and our environmental recognition this year when we were where employees are briefed directly impact remains critical to the way awarded the Healthy Working Lives by EnQuest executive directors and we operate as a business.
This is Bronze award, part of a Scottish get the opportunity to ask questions embedded in our culture, in the way Government initiative, and we are now on a range of topics.
A new feature we manage the Company and how working towards the Silver award.
this year has been the introduction our employees organise their work of a series of high quality, engaging every day.
A high performance team videos that give staff a real insight We expect to exceed them and Since flotation, we have focused into projects going on offshore.
constantly strive to improve them.
on building the high performance organisation essential to delivering Operating to the highest ethical Personal Safety performance during EnQuests ambitious growth plans.
standards has been part our culture 2011 was good with just two Lost Scaling up the business has been from the day we started.
We put a Time Incidents LTI recorded, both critical.
We have more than doubled detailed Code of Conduct in place in hand injuries, and this put us once in size since IPO, in 2011 we recruited 2010 and this year we updated this again in the top quartile of industry around 200 people and we expanded significantly, augmenting the section performance with a Lost Time Injury into a second office in Aberdeen.
We on business ethics to reflect the Frequency Rate LTIFR of 0.44 ended the year with a core staff of requirements of the uK Bribery Act.
compared with the latest industry just under 300 high calibre individuals This reinforces our commitment to average of 1.82.
Key achievements and a total workforce of around 1,300 ensure our employees act with complete include a four year unbroken record including our offshore contractors.
integrity at all times, including how we for the Thistle Drilling Rig without any interact with our partners and suppliers.
LTIs, the Northern Producer completed Our objective has been to attract a second LTI free year, and the John the best in the industry, and we have Working with our local community Shaw Drilling Rig achieved one year LTI succeeded in attracting not only people The highlight of the year was probably free: records that we are all proud of.
who are highly skilled in their field, but our participation in the Aberdeen also people for whom EnQuests values Corporate Decathlon.
This was a hugely Safety leadership is critical to our resonate strongly and positively.
During successful event for us on several success.
Each member of the leadership the year we enhanced our remuneration levels.
Raising a substantial sum for team makes frequent offshore safety framework to ensure that we had the a local cancer charity was a fantastic visits, auditing specific activities and right salary and incentives package to result, but of equal importance was generally raising the safety profile.
compete successfully for highly sought the team building that supported after skills in the subsurface, well drilling this.
It was particularly pleasing We continue to invest in this area, and project engineering disciplines.
In to be nominated as the winning we strengthened the Health, Safety, addition to these enhanced incentives, company of the Charity Challenge.
Environment and Quality HSEQ team our strong production growth with a new manager, John Atkinson, who and active business development We have continued to develop our was formerly asset manager of Heather programme, in particular the new Alma relationship with Tullos primary school and Broom, so he brings considerable and Galia hub, has helped to raise our in Aberdeen, providing funds for books, operational experience to the role.
profile and build our reputation as school trips and contributing towards an an innovative, dynamic employer.
Active Maths Scheme that is part of the Our environmental performance remains Curriculum for Excellence programme.
in line with the industry average.
The Whilst recruitment has been a key Contributions were also made towards installation of hydrocyclones has focus over the last 12 months, retention the purchase of childrens mountain significantly improved the oil in water is clearly of equal importance.
To bikes, in conjunction with Aberdeen City OIW performance on Heather bringing ensure that this remains high, we Councils Go Mountain Biking initiative.
our OIW emissions back in line with our have begun to develop a series of target.
During the year, a number of technical ladders to facilitate technical We also focused on environmental and minor OIW incidents occurred, relating career progression.
The first of these youth projects including supporting to the transfer of fluids from supply is for subsurface disciplines, such as two local swimming clubs, football vessels.
A specific project to tackle this geophysicists, geologists, and reservoir clubs and the Solstice Garden issue has recommended modifications engineers.
Career ladders for other Centre that helps people who have to the bunkering processes.
CO disciplines will be rolled out during 2012. experienced mental health problems 2 emissions were marginally ahead return to the workplace, by offering of last year as a result of additional We have now built what we believe to be work experience and horticultural flaring on Thistle, but gas flaring overall a centre of excellence in Aberdeen, with training.
This was complemented by remained below permitted limits.
one of the best integrated development corporate donations to a number teams in the industry.
The EnQuest of local and national charities.
We are on track to achieve ISO 14000 in development machine is well and truly in 2012 as our environmental management place, underpinned by in-depth expertise We see positive benefits for our staff system continues to develop.
Our and firmly focused on execution.
from these activities and intend to Alma Development Environmental build on this in 2012 by forming a Submission was a clear demonstration We believe that open, frequent new committee to decide the best of our progress.
This comprehensive communication is key to employee way to allocate the funds we raise.
report includes a rigorous and detailed engagement and nurturing our culture.
risk assessment with mitigating Short weekly bulletins keep staff upstrategies, setting the standard for all to-date with progress on production, of our installations going forward.
health and safety, and our share price, EnQuest PLC 35 Annual Report 2011
