38 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility encompasses a broad range of philosophies, activities and standards.
Filtrona considers the issues that are material to its business and seeks to respond to them in a manner appropriate to the interests of all its stakeholders PRIORITIES GOALS HOW DO WE MANAGE IT?
Reduce the impact Set carbon emission targets Substantially improved the Continue with global of carbon emissions at each operational location majority of global sites in carbon reduction initiatives and secure continuous Reduce carbon emissions, accordance with Carbon Offset emissions when possible improvement in prevent pollution and improve Trust principles Continue environmental environmental manufacturing efficiency Complied with UK Carbon improvement to ensure performance Implement initiatives to reduce Reduction Commitment initiatives retention of accreditations waste and increase recycling Ranked equal first in the CRC Secure accreditation for newly Explore the use of energy-saving Performance League Table acquired sites within two year period technology in manufacturing Reduced carbon emissions Investigate accreditation to Extend the span and quality by 11.4% global ISO 50001, a new of data collection Retained accreditation voluntary energy standard Develop new techniques with to ISO 14001 standard suppliers and customers for at all manufacturing sites  products Achieved ISO14001 Recycling Gain ISO 14001 accreditation biodegradeable processes at PayneCardiff business Secure continuous Secure OHSAS 18001 Intoduced additional Identify other training needs improvement in accreditation at principal behavioural training Continue to demonstrate health and safety manufacturing sites Introduced corporate health & year-on-year improvement Establish Group standards safety training for all employees in the lost work day rate for improvements and results Retained OHSAS 18001 Encourage employee initiatives for established sites to reinforce Company training Achieved OHSAS 18001 for newly acquired sites within two years Ensure the highest Promote Filtrona Values Continued communication Respond to new risks standards of business Establish clear policies of policies and requirements integrity and conduct and guidance Implemented new Provide further learning Secure employee awareness compliance systems Drive employee responsibility and engagement Trained employees in Code Seek increased assurance Establish Right to Speak policy of Business Ethics Investigate complaints Rolled out new Right to Speak policy and reporting procedures Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Corporate Responsibility 39 Filtrona recognises the significance and importance of being a The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk responsible corporate citizen in the workplace, marketplace, environment activities, undertaking health assessments and, where appropriate, and community.
The Companys international operations fulfil their implementing health surveillance programmes.
The Company has responsibility to record, monitor and make publicly available the potential achieved the Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems impact of its activities.
In pursuing its corporate strategy, Filtronas aim is to OHSAS 18001 for all of its principal manufacturing sites.
The recently adopt business practices that are economically, socially and environmentally acquired sites are given a period of two years to reach the required sustainable, and to promote these to its stakeholders in order to strengthen standard in accordance with Filtrona policy.
relationships, share knowledge and encourage best practice.
As part of their integration all businesses which join the Filtrona Group The Companys risk management processes include consideration of have to ensure that they achieve the Companys health and safety the potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Filtronas reporting requirements within a suitable timescale.
The Companys investment decisions take into account appropriate evaluations of the potential consequences for its employees, Businesses undertake extensive training programmes which are particularly customers and suppliers and theenvironment.
focused on the key, or most frequent, risks in their operations.
Training in risk assessment and root-cause analysis features strongly in the Companys The Filtrona Values form the core of the Companys adoption of the health and safety management.
highest standards of business ethics and integrity that underpin its relationships with both internal and externalstakeholders.
Details of the Companys health and safety performance for 2011 and subsequent progress throughout 2012 can be viewed on page 41 and The Values can be found on the Company's website www.
on the Companys website www.
Workplace The Company has implemented the Filtrona Group Safety Awards which reward manufacturing sites with Gold, Silver or Bronze status on the basis Health and safety of their annual performance assessed against increasingly stringent criteria Filtronas overriding commitment in the workplace continues to be the set by the FHSEC.
The criteria governing these awards are based upon: health, safety and welfare of its employees and all those who visit the achieving a high Filtrona audit score: OHSAS standard accreditation: Companys operations.
The Board provides health and safety leadership regular health and safety meetings: availability of suitably trained employees and the Chief Executive has primary responsibility for setting the overriding on site: completion of all critical risk assessments and achieving accident health and safety objectives within which the detailed policies operate, reduction targets.
and for reviewing progress against thoseobjectives.
2011 2010 2009 The Company has designed procedures and developed a culture which Gold awards 7 14 15 7 aims for continuous improvement with the sharing of best practice Silver awards 9 7 5 11 in all areas of health and safety, in addition to strict compliance with Bronze awards 5 2 2 1 applicable laws and regulations.
The degree of autonomy afforded to local management allows them to set the agenda best suited to the The figures in brackets represent the awards which would have been made requirements of individual businesses, but subject always to the proper if the 2010 criteria had been applied implementation of the core health and safety policies and principles which Filtrona has adopted.
The Filtrona Chief Executives Special Award for health, safety and environment recognises the achievements of the division or site that Ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, assess and drive performance.
best meets the following criteria: Investigations are carried out into all circumstances that may have resulted in injury or near miss incidents.
Continued reporting of near miss incidents Demonstrates a significant impact on work methods or behaviours and non work related injuries has enhanced the Companys ability to resulting in improvements to employee perception of health, learn from potentially hazardous conditions and prevent their reoccurrence safety and environmental standards or escalation into more seriousincidents.
Involves the majority of employees Utilises novel or interactive media or methods The Group-wide intranet-based management reporting system facilitates an extensive live programme of active monitoring, that measures in detail In 2011, the award was won by the Porous Technologies division exactly how successful the Company is in managing the safety of its due to the strong impact of the ECO Reservoir recycling project.
The workplaces at individual site level.
During the year a complete suite of development of a recycle extruder allows the conversion of manufacturing training videos was introduced via the intranet reporting system which waste into usable material for writing instrument reservoirs.
This new covers all aspects of health and safety in the workplace.
These training product offering has reduced the Richmond plants waste to landfill.
videos, which are becoming part of employee induction programmes This achievement reflects the long-term commitment of the management and annual training, will be updated for revised and new legislation team and employees to environmental excellence.
Employees Filtrona has an established Group Health, Safety & Environmental Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of operational Council the FHSEC which is an international group and includes senior excellence and the provision of quality products and service to its operating management from all divisions.
The FHSECs primary task is to customers.
The skills and expertise of Filtronas employees drive the review progress with the implementation of HS&E policy and performance innovation which enables the Company to provide added value to its and set objectives and standards for the Group worldwide.
The FHSEC customers, enhance supply chain logistics with its suppliers and reduce meets bi-annually and discusses the physical, regulatory and financial the environmental impact of its operations.
risks associated with all HS&E issues including climate change.
There is a mechanism for identifying and allocating suitable resources to specifically identify risks, and for reporting to theBoard.
40 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility continued The Company regularly reviews its organisational structure to ensure that its performance, but also on the integrity in its management of the the business has the necessary personnel to deliver its strategicpriorities.
workplace and the environment and its ethical and responsible conduct in the marketplace.
The development and continuation of long-term Filtrona understands the importance of having the right people with business relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company and such the right skills now and in the future, to deliver the exceptional service commitments are an important component in the ongoing success of and expertise which is the bedrock of the Company's long-term the Company.
To deliver that service and expertise, Filtrona is continually improving its comprehensive talent pool, from Filtronas Code of Business Ethics policy is applicable to all its businesses graduates to senior management.
Since its formation Filtrona has run around the world.
The policy details the standards expected by Filtrona a very successful graduate training programme which has historically in the conduct of its business and its relationships with third parties, recruited from Europe and the Americas.
During 2011 this scheme was including free and fair competition, and the prohibition of bribery and introduced to candidates in Asia and it will be further expanded in 2012. political donations, and provides general guidance on honest and fair dealings with suppliers, customers and local and nationalauthorities.
Key strategic aspects of recruitment, training and development are overseen or co-ordinated at a Group level to ensure consistency Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of approach, to identify strategic threats and opportunities and of workers and employment conditions in its supply chain meet or exceed to open up a wider range of opportunities for employees.
Filtrona encourages its employees to develop and manage their own Environment careers.
It facilitates this by providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, aims to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees Filtrona applies a structured approach to minimising its environmental are suitably qualified andexperienced.
impact by: Filtrona is committed to improving employee engagement and learning Implementing and maintaining formal environmental systems more about the needs of its workforce.
In addition to the impact of accredited to ISO14001 on a global basis the training and development programmes, employee engagement is Measuring consumption and emissions and setting targets enhanced by the communication practices which have been adopted to improve performance across the businesses.
Carrying out environmental impact assessments and developing site management plans Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employees and recognises Providing training to employees and engaging with customers the importance of communication to good working relationships and and suppliers to raise environmental awareness practices.
The Company seeks to ensure that employees are informed Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste on matters relating to their employment and on financial and economic factors affecting the businesses.
The Company actively seeks feedback Filtrona is listed in the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure and ideas from employees to improve its operations, and forums the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised appropriate to Filtronas local businesses have been established to allow corporate responsibility standards, and facilitates investment in those employees to voice their views on how the Company should fulfil the companies where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing demands of all its local and international stakeholders.
The Companys factor in an investors decision-making process.
European Information and Consultation Forum facilitates the discussion of issues across all of its operations in the EuropeanUnion.
Filtrona supports the activities of the Carbon Trust and participated in the 9th annual Carbon Disclosure Project CDP environmental impact The Company recognises the importance of, and the benefits to be survey in 2011.
It is the Companys intention to participate in the CDP derived from, diversity across its international operations and is committed survey during2012.
to offering equal opportunities to all people without discrimination of any form.
Filtrona remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance During the year the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy 350 Index Series the and local market conditions.
Series was introduced which aims to support investors in incorporating climate change risks into their investment strategy.
It features futureThe Company gives full and fair consideration to employment applications orientated criteria that assess the exposure of individual companies to by disabled persons.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, higher future costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions.
The FTSE every effort is made to ensure that the training, career development CDP Carbon Strategy 350 Index is a carbon-risk biased version of the and promotion opportunities enjoyed by disabled persons are as far FTSE350 Index with the constituent companies weighted according to as possible identical to those of non-disabled employees.
their carbon exposure relative to their sector peers.
In the 2010 Series, Filtrona was ranked number 30.
Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights as set down by the United Nations Declaration and its applicable International The UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC legislation became Labour Organisation conventions.
Operations based in India, Indonesia, effective during 2010, and Filtrona achieved the Carbon Trust Standard Jordan and Thailand are also accredited to SA 8000 which details at all its UK manufacturing sites during 2011.
This standard ensures fundamental principles of human rights.
commitment to improved carbon footprint and enhanced reputation.
The CRC is designed to drive energy efficiency and carbon reduction Marketplace by giving organisations a financial incentive through emissions trading.
Filtrona continues to apply the principles of the Carbon Trust Standard Filtronas reputation with its customers and suppliers and in the to its global operations and will be well placed to address future communities where it operates is based not only on the quality of anticipated legislative changes in its operating regions.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Corporate Responsibility 41 The first CRC Performance League Table PLT was published during Supplier standards are subject to review by the Company employees 2011 by the UKs Environment Agency and ranked Filtrona equal first.
who audit their environmental credentials.
The 2010-11 PLT is based on early actions that participants have taken to show that they are committed to energy efficiency within their The FHSEC provides an opportunity to share best environmental practices organisations.
Participants get credit for early action where they: and waste minimisation initiatives across all the Company sites.
Filtrona is committed to respecting the environment and seeking practical ways Have a proportion of their CRC emissions certified under one of to lessen the impact of its business activities.
The Group Environmental the seven carbon management schemes which the Environment Award has been designed to give additional recognition to those sites Agency has accredited with projects or campaigns that further that objective, and is given to the Have a proportion of their CRC electricity and gas supplies measured most successful and innovative environmental improvement or initiative through voluntarily installed automatic meter reading devices, on a site or division which meets one or more of the following criteria: dynamic un-metered supply and daily read gas meters in year one Reduction in emissions Filtronas position as joint first is a direct result of the early action Recycling of waste product undertaken under the auspices of the Group FHSEC.
Waste reduction Energy efficiency Given the diversity of Filtronas international operations, local Efficient use of raw material management drive environmental performance based on divisional Use of bio-degradable materials objectives set in accordance with Filtronas environmental policy.
Copies of the policy can be found on the Companys website And which impacts one or all of: www.
Local community Filtrona uses a variety of indicators relevant to each of the operating Local ecology divisions to monitor environmental performance, but the following Public perception of the business core impacts are identified for the Group as awhole: Profitability of the Company Greenhouse gas emission from energy use, including electricity, In 2011 the Group Environmental Award was won by Payne India in natural gas, heating fuel, transport and travel recognition of the wide-ranging and community linked Environmental Use of resources including water Improvement Programme conducted over a number of years.
Generation and disposal of waste Community Filtrona is continually seeking to ensure reduction in the use of natural resources and has established research and development facilities in the Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen extends UK, Asia and the US to investigate the use of renewable resources and to the support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects recyclable bio-degradable versions of products.
across a range of organisations and charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries, the Company aims to support the creation 2011 2010 % change of prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the 1 countries and cultures in which it operates.
In its attempts to bring Carbon emissions 117 132 11.4% benefits back to those communities whose support provides a basis 2 2 2 General waste 2,361 2,187 2,293 3% 4.6% for Filtronas success, the Company has focused on education and Recycled factory waste 2,007 1,905 5.4% enterprise, health and welfare and the environment.
Filtronas support 3 & cardboard is driven at a local rather than a corporate level.
The approach is to 4 3 3 Water 221m 250m 11.6% support and enhance employee efforts in their communities through the application of the Company's resources.
In pursuit of its aims within 1 tonnes of CO per million of Group revenue 2 the community, Filtrona has developed targeted programmes for local 2 these figures show the effect of the Payne Cardiff acquisition communities, often involving commercial sponsorship and significant which contributed an extra 174 tonnes of general waste 3 employee engagement through direct involvement or secondment.
tonnes of recycled production waste 4 per million of Company revenue Accident trend average incidents Filtrona is committed to ensuring good environmental practice at all its locations and in its operational processes and investment decisions.
2008 27.3 Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited and all of the Companys European businesses comply with EU and domestic 2009 21.9 waste management regulations.
2010 22.7 2011 22.1 Due to the scale of Filtronas international operations, the use of energy 25.1 has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, and financially viable, energy from renewable resources is utilised to Lost time accident trend incidents limit environmental impact, commercial risk andcosts.
2008 3.4 Filtrona actively engages with its employees, customers, and suppliers to exploit opportunities offered by new technologies, improved process 2009 3.2 operations and new materials to further reduce environmental impact 2010 2.6 and improve profitability further.
