ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Sustainable Development Review We appointed Professor Dr Dieter Ameling our baseline data set and have not included This review presents the as the Board sponsor for SD.
This, coupled prior year data on the basis that it is not with the Chief Executive Officer CEO directly comparable.
headlines of our progress chairing the Health, Safety, Environment and and performance in 2011 Community HSEC Committee, ensures Key activities and progress in 2011 independent expertise and leadership in the key areas that Safety respectively.
The Chief Financial Officer Safety is a top priority for the Group, CFO is now responsible for the support and enable us to and it continues to be one of the core development of SD reporting, including fundamentals of our growth strategy.
achieve high standards of data systems and controls.
Our recording of fatalities and lost time corporate responsibility.
We have established the role of Group incidents is based on the definitions set SD Manager reporting to the CFO and Further information will out in Kazakhstani regulations.
We with direct liaison with the Board sponsor.
acknowledged in 2011 that the scope of our The embedding of SD into our business be presented in our first reporting was not consistent with recognised management processes is driven through international practices.
As a result fewer Sustainable Development the operational review meetings which incidents are reported as work-related.
are conducted four times per year.
These Report, to be issued later For example fatalities that occur as a result meetings are chaired by the CEO and of an employees failure to follow procedures, attended by Presidents and General in 2012. or due to alcohol, are not included.
An SD working group with case of lost time injuries, lost time tends divisional representation provides support mostly to be authorised only for severe Governance of Sustainable to the management on the implementation cases, for example fractures and breaks.
Development SD of SD initiatives.
The Africa business is now We are working towards gathering more included in the governance structures comprehensive data for 2012 but recognise In 2011 we have taken steps to achieve for HSEC.
stronger Group level leadership and to that it will take time to change practices.
establish greater accountability within Performance summary our operational Divisions to go beyond Kazakhstani standards also do not require We have started a data improvement reporting of contractor cases.
programme to enhance the quality and these requirements we have included scope of the HSEC data we use as a contractor fatalities reported to us for the We recognise the importance of including SD risks into our strategic and operational business.
As part of this programme, in first time this year.
We are starting to capture 2011 we sought external assurance for contractor lost time cases for internal decisions, in capital expenditure programmes, and leadership remuneration.
The Assurance Report from reporting in 2012.
 LLP can be found We also understand the need for formal processes and controls to ensure internal on page 70.
Our HSEC Reporting Principles, Any fatality occurring as a result of work which provide the basis for our reporting, activities is unacceptable.
We investigate all accountability in environmental, social and economic performance.
com en-GB cases to understand the causes of fatalities Media1 Reporting.
As a result of this and lost time events and take steps to reduce programme we are using the 2011 data as their occurrence throughout the Group.
1 Performance indicators Units 2011 2 Workforce employees Number 74,989 3 Fatalities work-related Number 6 4 Fatalities contractors and non work-related Number 7 5 Lost time injuries employees Number 63 6 Lost time injury frequency rate n a 0.49 7 Community social investment US$ millions 156 8,9 Energy consumed Terajoules 293,300 8,10 Greenhouse gas emissions Million tonnes CO equivalent 26.9 2 8 3 Water withdrawn Million m 1,926 People trained in Trust but Verify ethics and conduct training Number 3,734 1 Prepared in accordance with ENRCs Reporting Principles available at www.
com en-GB Media1 Reporting 2 Reported as at 31 December 2011.
Excludes Brazil and SABOT and some other entities within the Group with only a limited number of employees.
The average number of employees for 2011 includes employees across all Group operations.
3 Two employee fatality events are undergoing legal review with the potential for reclassification, one from 2010 and one from 2011.
Neither case is included in the reported numbers for 2011 as the classification decision is ongoing.
4 Includes on-site fatality events caused by alcohol, sudden worsening of occupational health cases, those events occurring outside of working hours and unauthorised tasks.
6 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR per 1,000,000 working hours employees only.
7 Includes the US$98 million contributions made to the Nazarbayev Fund to support the development of university education in Kazakhstan.
8 Includes production related activities only, excludes exploration activities and corporate offices.
9 Includes direct and indirect energy sources.
10 Carbon dioxide equivalency is a quantity that describes, for a given mixture and amount of greenhouse gas, the amount of CO2 that would have the same global warming potential, when measured over a specified timescale generally, 100 years.
40 Unlocking Value Sustainable Development Review continued Community Social Investment CSI of the Group and continued global incidents raised through the hotline are diversification, we are in the process of investigated and reviewed.
No cases of Most of our CSI is made into Kazakhstan developing a new Group People Strategy child labour and forced labour have been through the Komek Foundation which was which will be launched in 2012.
This will identified through the management established in 2008.
The Komek Foundation include development of policies and processes we have in place.
Investment in is governed through a board of trustees and, procedures as well as further developing healthcare and medical facilities has been from 2011, has been chaired by the CEO.
a major part of our employment packages The Komek Foundations long-term focus over a number of years.
is on the implementation of programmes We encourage employee engagement aimed at supporting the Groups own through established systems of Water employees as well as providing finance remuneration, training, employee for investment in the development of cultural, Almost all the Groups operations are committees, collective agreements and education, sport and health facilities.
located in water-stressed areas and we consultations.
We believe that all our people expect ever-rising demand and competition should be treated equally with respect and In addition to our established CSI activities, for water resources.
We are committed to dignity.
Our commitment to equality is we made US$98 million contributions to maximising water use efficiency as we are supported through giving full and fair the Nazarbayev Fund to support the conscious of the risks of water scarcity.
consideration to applications for employment development of university education in by disabled persons, having regards to their Kazakhstan.
This is done as part of the In 2011 the Group withdrew 1,926 million particular aptitudes and abilities: as well as Global Strategic Leadership Programme, cubic metres of water.
Almost all of the water continuing the employment of, and arranging which is central to the Group People Strategy.
withdrawn is used as cooling water for EEC.
appropriate training for, employees who have This water is taken from the Irtysh River become disabled during their employment.
We intend to review our Group CSI strategy under permit and goes through cooling in 2012 13.
This may alter the way in which towers: all of this water, except a small All our employees have the right to enter investment decisions are made to ensure amount lost in use, is returned to the river.
into a collective agreement and join a improved alignment to our business needs Strict control is established over the quality union.
The majority of our employees in including in particular an emphasis on skills of the water returned back to the natural the Republic of Kazakhstan and Russia development and creating economic source.
Absence of water pollution are members of trade unions.
We are also putting in place new is checked, monitored and confirmed by industrial agreements signed in 2010 at procedures and controls for CSI management the Kazakhstani State authorities.
our Kazakhstani and Russian operations aimed at mitigating legal and compliance risks continue to be in place.
In Brazil, our and to be able to report on the actual use of Water use is subject to annual planning by people may voluntarily join unions.
This approach will also the environmental and finance teams using Our operations in Africa also maintain be adopted in Africa and Brazil where CSI established processes according to legal cooperative relationships with the unions.
programmes are just being established.
In Kazakhstan and Russia monthly reporting to the State regulator We have established internal policies Employees on water withdrawn and discharged is addressing human rights as well as a Group mandatory.
In Africa our operations are also We employed 74,989 people at the end of Code of Conduct which has been updated subject to strong regulatory control over in 2011.
We are committed to uphold the UN 2011 across the majority of our operations water use and discharge.
In 2012 we will and including all those where there is a high Universal Declaration of Human Rights and review our definitions for reporting water use do not tolerate any form of discrimination or labour force our average employee number and extend our reporting on water recycled unfair treatment.
Our whistleblowing hotline covering all the Group operations through and re-used enabling more comprehensive is one of the methods by which potential 2011 was 77,441.
Recognising the growth analysis and priority setting.
human rights concerns are identified: implemented with support from Global presented in the second cycle of the Ethics and conduct Compliance Inc. an international and programme, which should be rolled out widely respected provider of compliance during 2012.
The Groups compliance programme solutions.
Allied to this, the Group to ensure adequate procedures has Compliance Department has conducted Global Compliance Inc. has also included the development, roll-out and face-to-face training in Kazakhstan on assisted the Group in implementing completion of a first cycle of ethics the same topics.
Face-to-face training and independently administering the training and Code of Conduct training.
has also been provided on competition whistleblowing hotline and communications law and international trade and sanctions programme.
This is staffed 24 hours a day, The Group has implemented web-based compliance to each sales and every day, and is available in five different ethics training and Code of Conduct marketing office.
This has been in place since training modules, Trust but Verify, which is May 2011. mandatory for selected employees.
The The Global Compliance Department in selection process involved identifying London is also working with Global The Global Compliance Department has predominantly senior employees in key Compliance Inc. to fine tune its training also engaged Forensic Risk Alliance since functions, for example procurement, programmes to make the various learning April 2011 to conduct a books and records finance and marketing, who work with third modules more immediately relevant.
In review across the Group.
This is helping us parties and execute financial transactions.
order to do this, we are incorporating some to identify areas where we can improve our The selection exercise was completed of the scenarios which have emanated from systems and controls, and ensure we are by the regional heads of Human Resources our whistleblowing hotline.
We expect aligned to meet our corporate values of fair and reviewed by the Global Compliance these refreshed case studies to be dealing and legal compliance.
This training has been ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 www.
com Sustainable Development Review continued In 2011 we have taken steps to improve the In the DRC, the Group runs a hospital Healthcare at ENRC quality of occupational healthcare available with 110 beds and three clinics with for our workers in Africa.
As public health approximately 30 beds.
These facilities sites in Africa issues in Africa are important for our support the entire population of Kakanda current and future employees we provide as there is no other medical service Within the Group, we understand the significant medical services to employee available in this area.
important role that global businesses dependants and community members.
can play in the rapid intervention to In Zambia, the Group runs a 16 bed stop the spread of disease amongst We have worked closely with local hospital which treats approximately employees and members of our communities to develop an effective HIV 330 people per month.
The spread of HIV AIDS AIDS programme based on preventive provides testing for tuberculosis and has in Africa is a major public health issue care, detection, support and treatment.
a well-established voluntary counselling and a significant risk to our At Chambishi in Zambia, the Group and testing and HIV treatment support employees.
There are also serious provides voluntary counselling and testing programme.
threats of tuberculosis and malaria and a successful active treatment in some African countries.
programme in conjunction with support for the government HIV AIDS programme.
42 Unlocking Value Sustainable Development Review continued Our production-related energy Identifying feasible projects to improve Energy and climate consumption accounts for the largest part energy use in existing equipment and of our greenhouse gas emissions and this facilities: change remains the focus of our efforts to reduce Energy consumption is a major factor Integrating energy efficiency into capital CO emissions.
In 2011 we launched a 2 in the Groups operations, amounting investments toll gating requirements: and Group-wide energy efficiency programme to 293,300 terajoules of energy in 2011. that should enable us to develop new, Investing in research and development Of this, 83% was sourced from coal.
and consolidate existing, efforts aimed of energy-efficient technologies.
A greenhouse gas inventory for 2011 at reducing energy dependency and has been prepared for all operations.
developing our response to the climate Implementation of the programme The total greenhouse gas emissions change problem.
should help deliver better management associated with direct and indirect decisions and contribute to reducing energy consumption amounted to The programme consists of four key carbon-related risks.
2 streams of work: Implementing proper performance management processes and systems:
