Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility The group is diverse and operates through a large number of businesses in Each office within the group is encouraged to reduce waste, reuse paper many geographical locations.
Each separate business provides important and only print documents and emails where necessary.
The main offices channels of communication to different sections of society throughout the across the group also recycle waste where possible.
The success of the groups businesses owes much to understanding offices recycled 43,420kg of paper and card, which is equivalent to 446 and engaging with the communities that they serve.
This allows them to trees.
The UK offices recycling capability includes plastics, glass and cans.
identify the issues relevant to their customers and to campaign effectively delivering benefits to a broad range of stakeholders.
Carbon footprint The group also owes much of its success to the entrepreneurial ability of The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and General Trust plc group its management teams.
Each business thrives by allowing local decisions DMGT, participates in a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis in a local context, while benefiting from the global outlook and financial completed by ICF International.
This exercise has been undertaken every resources of the wider group.
year since 2006 using the widely recognised GHG protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and the World Business Council The paragraphs below provide more detailed explanations on key areas of for Sustainable Development.
corporate responsibility: In addition, the company, through DMGT, is part of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and has been submitting full responses to them since 2007 Environmental responsibility and is included in the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series.
The group does not operate directly in industries where there is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
It does not print products in-house or have The directors are committed to reducing the groups carbon emissions any investments in printing works.
It takes its environmental responsibility and managing its carbon footprint.
The company, as part of the wider seriously and complies with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in DMGT group, committed to reducing its carbon footprint by 10% from each country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, account is the baseline year of 2007 by the end of 2012. taken of environmental issues when placing contracts with suppliers of goods and services and these suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
For This year the footprint fell by 8% compared to last year, after adjusting for instance, the groups two biggest print contracts are outsourced to companies acquisitions and disposals, and by 18% compared to the 2007 baseline.
The who have environment management systems compliant with the ISO 14001 company, as part of the wider DMGT group, having achieved the targeted standard.
The paper used for the groups publications is produced from pulp 10% reduction two years early, is now consulting with the groups business obtained from sustainable forests, manufactured under strict, monitored and units with a view to fixing a new, stretching target for the group.
FTSE4Good The group is not a heavy user of energy: however, it does manage its energy requirements sensibly using low-energy office equipment where possible In financial year 2011 the group was included for the first time in the and using a common sense approach to office energy management.
The group has a ESG rating of 3 5 which gives the 2011, the group began the roll out of new secure multi-functional device group a percentile rating of 39% in the ICB Global Super Sector.
technology which enables two sided printing and allows employees to delete unwanted documents at the printer before printing.
This initiative should reduce paper, ink and electricity usage.
Planning is underway to expand this solution to other offices.
32 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Social responsibility This year over 1 million has been contributed to a variety of international charitable causes.
Contributions came from Euromoneys own charitable budget and individual fundraising efforts, and also by way of a number of our clients who generously made donations that support Euromoney company-wide charitable projects.
Euromoney encourages its people to be active in charities.
This is a healthy two-way process often an individual running a marathon for his or her chosen cause asks the company to donate but in addition the board believes that periodically a big, company-wide project should be selected that is a challenge, is very focused on results, and has a specific social goal of permanently changing the lives of some of the poorest people in the Site of the new Kechene spring world.
The additional benefit if the project is successful is that it brings together employees from all parts of the group in the common pursuit of a cause that unites them.
Water and Sanitation, Kechene, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Following on from the company-wide vote, the winning charity, African and Medical Research Foundation AMREF sustainable water and sanitation project in Kechene the largest slum in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, received donations of over 111,000 during the year.
This was by way of contributions from the company as a whole and fundraising efforts by various divisions by way of awards dinners and other initiatives as well as individual employee donations via the Give as You Earn Scheme.
The Kechene project, which will benefit 22,000 people, is scheduled to be completed in January 2013 but throughout the year work was carried out involving the rehabilitation Collecting water from the new standpipes of previously redundant water springs, as well as the construction of sanitation kiosks, shower blocks, and water storage tanks.
As part of the project, local committees in Kechene have been established to ensure sustainability of the new facilities for the community.
AMREF Mobile Technology Health Project TelCap Capacity Media raised funds for AMREFs work to extend the use of mobile technology in its health and learning programmes in East and Southern Africa.
33 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate and Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Little Rock School, Kibera, Nairobi AbleChildAfrica Working with disabled children and young people in Africa In addition, the other project that was involved in the charity selection vote, Little Rock School, was adopted as a second company-wide charitable project.
This has included the purchase of land for the planned building of new school facilities in Kibera, which is Kenyas most concentrated slum Little Rock School at work... of over one million people.
Funds of close to 600,000 were raised at an auction involving generous donations from our client banks as well as seed capital from the Euromoney charity budget at the annual Euromoney Awards Dinner in London in July.
Construction of the Little Rock building project is planned to commence in January 2012 and be completed in October 2012.
This will involve the existing school which caters for 240 children over a third of whom are disabled moving to the brand new teaching facility, and an increase in the schools capacity to over 700 children.
Euromoney is working closely on the Little Rock School project with the UK-registered charity AbleChildAfrica which cares for disabled children and young people in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda.... and play 34 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Water Well Project in Kimbunga Valley, Kenya Euromoney made a donation during the year to fund the construction of a water well for two communities in the Kimbunga region of Southern Kenya.
These communities had until recently little source of water and had to purchase it from a water kiosk involving a four hour walking round trip from ABLE CHILD AFRICA logo, Little Rock Logo, EM conferences Logo and the communities.
In addition, very often water was not available, particularly EM Logo in times of drought and because of competition for water resources from Mombasas urban population as well as the hotels in the area.
The successful drilling and completion of the water well has meant that over 1,800 people now have access to a well in close proximity while ensuring water security even in times of extreme drought.
The well site has been identified and cleared ready Euromoney has worked on this project with The Haller to start digging Foundation which has been supporting communities by way of land regeneration in rugged and inhospitable locations outside Mombasa.
The water table is found and the inside wall of the well is constructed using stones and cement 35 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate and Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued The community at large Orbis Saving Sight Worldwide In addition to the above company-wide charitable projects, there were divisional fundraising initiatives which included a number of charity dinners and other activities: Bali Sports Peace Foundation Euromoney Seminars and Airfinance Journal continue to support Orbis which works to prevent and treat blindness by way of their annual charity dinner held alongside the Airfinance Journal conference in Dublin each January.
In addition, an auction of the name for a new Ethiopian Airlines Boeing aircraft resulted in a donation to AMREF.
Institutional Investor charity initiatives Coaltrans gave a donation of $10,000 towards the Bali Sports Peace Foundation.
This is a foundation which provides sporting opportunities for underprivileged children in Bali and Papua New Guinea and other parts of Indonesia.
Hope and Homes for Children Institutional Investor and Institutional Investor Journals continued to support a number of charitable projects in the US including: One To World which supports Fulbright Scholars : Baruch College Fund journalism qualifications for underprivileged students : Cathedral Spires Foundation and Student Sponsor Partnership to support local students in furthering Master reference drawn 13.05.08 EuroWeek held two charity dinners raising nearly 244,000 for Hope their primary education : Working In Support of Education a financial and Homes for Children charity, which works with children, their families, aid and mentoring programme targeted to low-income communities and communities and governments across Central and Eastern Europe and Africa.
Institutional Investor Intelligence made a donation to Sparks which funds medical research for the treatment of conditions affecting babies and children.
36 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com High-quality and honest personnel are an essential part of the control Customers and Suppliers environment.
The high ethical standards expected are communicated by The group operates through a large number of businesses in many management and through the employee handbook which is provided geographical locations.
As such, the relationships with key customers to all employees.
The employee handbook includes specific policies on and suppliers is decentralised such that there is no overarching policy on matters such as the use of the groups information technology resources, how the group manages these relationships.
This enables each business to data protection policy, the UK bribery act, and disciplinary and grievance tailor their approach to suit customers and suppliers specific needs and procedures.
The group operates an internal intranet site which is used requirements.
Each key customer and supplier has an account manager to communicate regularly with employees and provide guidance and allocated to them ensuring that open communication is maintained assistance on day-to-day matters facing employees.
The group has throughout the contractual relationship.
Further communication is a specific whistle blowing policy that is supported by an externally regularly provided to the groups key customers through emails and online monitored and run whistle blowing hotline.
The whistle blowing policy is information in order to promote respective products.
updated regularly and is reviewed by the audit committee.
Each business agrees payment terms with its suppliers and it is group Human rights and health and safety requirements policy to make payments in accordance with these terms.
The group had The group is committed to the health and safety and the human rights 77 days of purchases in creditors at September 30 2011 2010: 73 days.
of its employees and communities in which it operates.
Health and safety issues are monitored to ensure compliance with all local health and safety regulations.
External health and safety advisers are used where Employees involvement and training appropriate.
The UK businesses benefit from a regular assessment of the Equal opportunities working environment by experienced assessors and regular training of all The group is an equal opportunity employer.
It seeks to employee a workforce existing and new UK employees in health and safety matters.
which reflects the diverse community at large, because the contribution of the individual is valued, irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, Disabled employees sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications origin.
It does not discriminate in recruitment, promotion or other employee for employment from people who are disabled: to continue, wherever matters.
The group endeavours to provide a working environment free from possible, the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for unlawful discrimination, victimisation or harassment.
employees who become disabled: and to provide opportunities for the career development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
Quality and integrity of employees The competence of people is ensured through high recruitment standards and a commitment to management and business skills training.
The group has the advantage of running external training businesses and uses this expertise and resource to train cost effectively its employees in-house on a regular basis.
Employees are also encouraged actively to seek external training as necessary.
37 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate and Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
