44 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Highlights: Introduction of new Group-wide HSE Policy to standardise and improve HSE processes 23% reduction in lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR and a 50% reduction in fatal incident frequency rate FIFR compared to 2010 Reduction in air emissions of 14% compared to 2010 US$49 million invested in charity and support of social infrastructure in 2011 Commitment to continued improvement in systems for the collection of HSE performance data Our Approach Led by the Board Committee, we are Air Emission Dynamics Prior to our admission to the Main Market of committed to improving our HSE performance the London Stock Exchange in November 2011 through the implementation of improved 100 100% we began a process of strengthening and production processes, as well as new 90.1% consolidating at a Group level our processes management and control systems.
In 2011 75 76.7% for reporting our performance in the areas of we appointed our first vice president of HSE, health and safety, environmental performance, Alexander Kruchinin.
The role of the vice 50 human capital management and community president is to co-ordinate the HSE function engagement.
at Group and site level and report into the Board Committee on material HSE issues.
25 This section of our report provides an overview 2009 2010 2011 of our policies and performance in these In 2011 we adopted a new Group HSE Policy important areas in 2011 as well as an outline to standardise and improve HSE processes of how we intend to improve our performance across EVRAZ.
The above graph illustrates the reduction in the years ahead.
in the total amount of the key air emissions The latest versions of the Codes of Ethics Nitrogen Oxides NOx, Sulphur Oxides SOx, Additional relevant disclosures are contained and Business Conduct can be found on the Dust and Volatile Organic Compounds VOC in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on Companys web-site.
rebased to 2009. page 26 and the Corporate Governance Report on page 61.
At a site level each plant manager takes Lost time injury frequency rate overall responsibility for HSE compliance, with Fatal incident frequency rate Strategy and Governance the site level HSE function reporting both to Per 1 million hours worked During 2010 we established a Health Safety the site management and group level HSE and Environment HSE Committee of the management.
The HSE management system 4 0.18 0.20 Board and the Committees membership and is subject to periodic Group level audit.
terms of reference were revised in October 0.14 0.16 0.13 2011.
The Committee is now chaired by Karl In addition to our own internal codes and Gruber, Independent Director, and the other principles, we utilise the OECD Organisation 0.12 members are Alexander Frolov, CEO of EVRAZ for Economic Co-operation and Development 2 0.07 plc, and Terry Robinson, Independent Director.
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises to 0.08 Details of the terms of reference and activities ensure, as far as possible, a uniform approach 0.04 of the committee are set out in the Corporate to business standards across our global Governance Report on page 61. operations.
We fully endorse the provisions 2.23 2.69 2.40 1.86 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2008 2009 2010 2011 and strive, at all times, to uphold them.
LTIFR FIFR Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Key Challenges HSE Overview Air Emissions As a global Company with operations spanning In March 2011 we established our first Reduction of air emissions is one of the activities across the steel production chain Group-wide Safety, Health and Environmental key environmental objectives.
Our key we face a wide range of risks.
Pursuant to the policy, we aim to meet emissions primarily comprise nitrogen oxides cultural and regulatory differences which or exceed all applicable national legislation NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile exist in the countries where we operate and to increase the level of industrial safety, organic compounds VOC, carbon monoxide also represent a challenge in ensuring the labour protection and reduce our impact on CO, carbon dioxide CO and methane.
We 2 consistent application of policies across the environment across our operations.
have made significant progress in reducing the Group.
emissions to air at our operations through During 2011 we also significantly improved investments in modern technologies and Based upon a review of our business, we our HSE Reporting System in order to improve by withdrawing obsolete equipment from believe our four most significant on-going the collection and sharing of appropriate production.
As a result, we have reduced our challenges are: data across the Group.
HSE performance key air emissions of nitrogen oxides NOx, r Health and safety The health and safety information is now submitted by subsidiaries sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic of our employees is paramount.
Our to the corporate HSE Directorates on a compounds VOC by 23% 37.8 thousand industry has inherent risk that needs to monthly basis to ensure constant monitoring.
tonnes in the period since 2009 and 14.9% be managed effectively to ensure a safe Information on any significant incidents is 21.7 thousand tonnes during 2011. working environment.
We constantly strive immediately escalated to management to to improve our performance by avoiding enable appropriate investigations to take place For the graph on these key air emissions or by mitigating these risks.
in order to develop preventative and corrective please refer to page 44. r The environment Our operations have the actions.
We expect that the revised system will potential to have significant impact on the lead to an improvement in our ability to assess environment through our production and our HSE performance in thefuture.
use of the worlds natural resources.
We are committed to meeting or exceeding Health & Safety Performance legal requirements in order to reduce We continued to deliver an improved safety our impacts on the environment and to performance in 2011 with a decline in both maintain our licence to operate.
fatal accidents as well as in our LTIFR.
Group r Human capital management Retaining LTIFR fell by 23% whilst our FIFR fell by 50%.
the best talent requires investment in the development of our employees and We will continue to prioritise our performance is important to securing our business in these areas in 2012. for the long-term and drive technological development.
Environmental Performance r Community relations We are long-term EVRAZs environmental strategy aims to investors in the regions where we operate find optimal solutions for industrial waste and are committed to ensuring that local management, reduce emissions and promote communities benefit from our presence.
the efficient use of natural recourses.
Targets In 2011 we spent US$85 million on measures As set out above, we are committed to to ensure environmental legal compliance improving our performance over the long-term, and US$31.6 million on projects to improve reflecting our development as a business.
In the period from 2012 to 2017, the Group is committed During the year the HSE Committee reviewed to spending approximately US$303 million EVRAZs performance indicators and activities on environmental programmes across against the challenges set out above and its operations.
determined a number of strategic, long-term targets and initiatives: We continue to strengthen our management r A consistent reduction in lost time injury and reporting systems to enable us to collect frequency rate and the avoidance of any comparable data on our energy consumption fatal accidents across the Group.
across the Group, with a view to reporting r Continued implementation of environmental on our energy consumption in 2013.
We are health and safety management systems in committed to increasing the number of sites accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS that have implemented ISO 14001.
18001 across the Group to sites which are not currently certified.
r Improving our systems and processes for collecting and collating key corporate responsibility performance data from across the Group.
46 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued The main emissions issue associated with r The development of new products Human Capital our coal mining operations is the release of containing by-products from a number of We are committed to providing equal rights methane gas after mine degasification.
For example, in 2011 to our employees regardless of their race, concentration of such methane in extracted EVRAZ VGOK developed a new iron flux nationality, gender or sexual orientation.
air is low and therefore presents particular consisting entirely of wastes generated Differences exist in policies across our difficulties in terms of abatement.
However, we by three different EVRAZ plants: and operations as a result of the varied traditions continue to investigate solutions for minimising r The recycling of ferrous scrap in steel and cultures which exist in the communities the quantity of methane emitted from our production.
For example, our North where we operate.
However, we recognise the operations.
American assets use scrap as their main importance of diversity in attracting talented raw-material without impacting metal employees and are committed to evaluating Waste Management quality.
In 2011 we recycled 3 million and standardising our performance going Where possible we seek to re-use or recycle tonnes of scrap, 24.6% more than in forward.
waste and by-products in order to minimise 2010 2.4 million tonnes.
our environmental impacts whilst maximising As of 31 December 2011 we employed almost operational and financial efficiencies.
Our strategy for dealing with non-hazardous 112,000 people across Europe, Africa and mining wastes, such as depleted rock, North America with the majority located in Until recently much of the waste we produced tailings and overburden is to use them for land Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent was simply disposed of to landfills, however rehabilitation and the construction of dams or States CIS.
we are developing a strategy to reduce waste roads.
In 2011, we reused 46.7% 45.6 million storage volumes and to ensure proper waste tonnes of such waste material.
In 2010 this Employment Practices: Attract and Retain disposal.
figure was 21.8% or 16.4 million tonnes.
Competition for skilled labour in Russia and many of the markets in which we operate In total, in 2011 we recycled or reused In 2012 we will be looking to increase the is intense.
We strive to attract and retain 1 109.6% of waste and by-products from our amount of waste and by-products we recycle employees by providing training and career non-mining assets compared to 96.6%in even further.
development opportunities across our assets 2010.
We have achieved this positive result worldwide as we strongly believe that diversity through a number of steps, including: In 2011 there were no significant and the sharing of best practice within the r The increase of recycling and use of our environmental incidents.
We completed Group brings significant commercial benefits main metallurgical wastes: slag, scale and remediation and clean-up work at Evrazruda that will help improve our competitive position.
In 2011 we generated 8.6 million Russia in 2011 following a tailings spill tonnes of metallurgical wastes and, in which occurred at the end of 2010.
We employ on the basis of job requirements conjunction with the development of old and do not discriminate on grounds of waste deposits, were able to recycle and Water Consumption and Wastewater age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual use 11.8 million tonnes of metallurgical Discharge Prevention orientation, politics, religion or disability.
As a result, in 2011 we recycled Our objective is to be efficient in our use do not employ forced, bonded or child labour.
and used approximately 135% of the of water.
We recognise the right of all employees to volume of waste metallurgical materials choose to belong to a union and seek to generated, 32% more than in 2010 when The total fresh water intake in 2011 bargain collectively.
We employ people with we recycled and used 9.1 million tonnes was 495.1 million cubic meters including disabilities and make every effort to offer 103% of waste produced.
53 million cubic meters of mine waters.
It is suitable alternative employment and retraining 1% less than in 2010 499.6 million cubic to employees who become disabled and can meters.
Almost 80% of all the water was no longer perform their regular duties.
taken from surface sources, such as rivers, lakes and reservoirs.
We continue to work on developing new strategies to minimise the Below Top: EVRAZ Protective Clothing impact of our water use.
Below Bottom: Workow Control Room Employees by Age 1% 21% 25% 27% 26% 18-20 21-30 31-40 41-50 1 The amount of waste recycled or used as 51 a percentage of annual waste generation, not including mining waste.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In 2011, we extended the number of on, whilst at the same time being included in EVRAZ New Leaders Programme programmes we have put in place to support educational materials and disseminated to Brief overview: The EVRAZ New Leaders our employees through the provision of employees throughout the Group as part of Programme began in 2009 with the goal benefits such as health and life insurance, our in house educational system.
of developing a new generation of senior subsidised meals, free transport to work, management within the Company to Company-supported mortgage schemes, Employment Practices: Retain ensure continuity of leadership.
retirement benefits and the provision of Our programmes for our Russian employees Description: The programme runs for one recreational activities.
In 2011, we had an included health and life insurance programmes, year and comprises six modules.
Fifty-six employee turnover rate across the Group subsidised meals, free transport to work, EVRAZ employees from Russia, Ukraine, of 8%, in line with prior years.
company supported mortgage schemes and Czech Republic, Italy, South Africa, the US the provision of recreational activities.
and Canada successfully completed the Employment Practices: Develop programme in 2011.
This third year of In 2011, we increased our focus on the EVRAZ North America also implemented a wide tailor-made training was intended for those training and development of our workforce to range of social programmes with a special employees who have higher technical ensure that employees at various levels are focus on health care issues, retirement plans education and a proven track record in provided with the opportunity to fulfil their and various employee benefits.
It focused on developing those potential by developing technical, operational managerial, engineering and technological and managerial skills.
To foster better and stronger relations skills which will enable participants to take between employees, EVRAZ Highveld Steel senior positions within the Company in the Our educational programmes operate at three and Vanadium held various employee events future.
The curriculum included lectures levels: standard training programmes for throughout the year.
To address issues taught by world-renowned professors, current managers and high potential employees relating to health and safety, EVRAZ Highveld workshops, and group work on project HiPo : professional training: and strategic Steel and Vanadium re-launched its Wellness development.
The comprehensive tailor-made programmes based on specific Campaign in 2011 headed up by a Wellness programme covered many of the complex business needs: and arranged for a certain Committee whose membership comprises issues associated with business group of employees worldwide regardless Company and trade union representatives.
development, such as strategic planning, their location.
The Wellness Committee identified health In addition, twenty-two of our current top We have also developed a structured priorities which formed part of the years managers shared their experience with the approach to HiPo development and put a wellness programme including HIV Aids, participants.
The participants faced a real strong emphasis on identifying and developing tuberculosis, diabetes, high blood pressure challenge: to develop a strategic project the leaders of tomorrow.
The Wellness Programme to drive the further growth of one of the issues are supervised by a special Talent delivered support through counselling for worlds leading  steel, Committee comprising key EVRAZ executives, a variety of social, financial, emotional and mining and vanadium businesses.
The final all of whom are actively involved in and mental health issues in 2011.
EVRAZ Highveld exam consisted of presenting the project personally responsible for, tutoring and also continued with its Primary Healthcare to EVRAZs top-management.
overseeing a given pool of HiPos.
Policy which provided medical care to Results: 38% of those who graduated from employees without medical insurance and free the programme in 2011 have received a A further underlying element to our employee medical testing for HIV, tuberculosis, sugar promotion.
In the space of three years, development strategy is ensuring the and blood pressure.
Anti-retroviral treatment 114 employees have graduated from the preservation and wider dissemination of for HIV was also available to employees and programme 74% of whom have been since technical knowledge already held within their families.
We have launched a special project designed to collate existing in-depth and up to Employee programmes in the Czech Republic date information through the identification of included cultural and sports activities, health key expert individuals within the business and care programmes, life and pension insurances their successors.
The main goal of the project and various events.
is to ensure that critical information is passed Employees by Business Employees by Region 4% 6% 2% 1% 1% 12% 59% 92% 22% Developing a Steel Russia & CIS new generation Iron ore Europe Coal Africa of senior Vanadium North America Other management 48 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Cooperation with Labour Unions Community Investments Yuzhkuzbassugol Training Centre We respect our employees rights and aim to EVRAZ believes in supporting and engaging EVRAZ takes pride in its professional build a constructive and positive relationship with the communities where it operates and growth programmes, using innovative with the labour unions which represent them.
where its employees and their families live and methods to advance its employees All our sites operate through the collective work.
EVRAZ sees contribution to the social knowledge and skills.
Having certain skills bargaining agreement model.
and economic development of these areas as can be paramount to providing employees its responsibility and a key determinant of its safety, especially in mining operations.
We generally have high levels of unionisation long-term success.
A cutting edge Center for Professional at our operations, although this can vary Development has been functioning at the significantly across operations and countries.
Any charity or donation is conditional upon an coal mining company Yuzhkuzbassugol Very high levels of unionisation exist at our approval request through the Groups internal since the 1970s.
The Center serves as a South African and Ukrainian operations.
For procedures and its approval from a designated training facility not only for Yuzhkuzbassugol example 92% of EVRAZ Highvelds staff and compliance officer.
Assistance to schemes but for other mining companies as well.
100% of employees of Bagleykoks belong to which meet our criteria is provided through A model of a belt type conveyor and a trade unions.
Whilst at EVRAZ Palini only charitable foundations established by the special class for radio communication were 21.9% of employees are union members and Company and managed by local Supervisory built for practice.
In 2010-2011 the Center across EVRAZ North America unionisation is Boards.
Membership of these Boards introduced a new and unique multimedia approximately 58%.
In Russia approximately comprises entirely of local community programme, which covers various aspects 75% of workforce is unionised and we are representatives and their activities are of training, including allowing miners to an active member of the Russian Steel audited annually.
learn how to operate a tunnelling machine Manufacturers Association through which in a computer game-like environment.
we work with the Russian Mining and EVRAZ Charity Funds operate in Russia Metallurgical Trade Union.
Siberia and the Urals, Czech Republic, South Africa and the United States.
Many projects Internal Communications EVRAZ supported in Russia in 2011 included We are committed to keeping our employees support for children with special needs, informed of major corporate developments as especially those afflicted by cerebral palsy.
We much as possible ensuring they understand have historically prioritised support for children and are aligned with our business strategy.
with cerebral palsy as treatment for this EVRAZ has a well-developed internal condition has been neglected in Russia.
We maintain an are currently broadening our focus to include anonymous whistle blowing system, that children with other special needs as well.
Our allows employees to confidentially raise projects have focused on providing essential questions and concerns, including internal equipment for day care centres, career surveys, suggestion boxes and a special development and healthy lifestyle promotion anonymous hotline.
programmes for youth, such as the construction of playgrounds.
The EVRAZ Charity Fund in the Czech Republic was established in 2006 and supports the long-term development of the Moravian-Silesian region.
In 2011 donations were directed towards medical, educational and psychological support for children suffering from various disabilities of the central nervous system.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 During 2011, EVRAZs social investments in Transformation in South Africa Helping Children with Special Needs South Africa were distributed by the EVRAZ EVRAZ Highveld has significantly increased Description:EVRAZ Charity Funds in Highveld eMalahleni Community Forum, which diversity across all levels and has successfully Russia and the Czech Republic pay special was established in July 2010 and officially improved its Broad-Based Black Economic attention to providing support for children launched in August 2011.
The eMalahleni Empowerment B-BBEE scorecard with special needs, especially those with Community Forum targets the most vulnerable performance as a result.
Several innovative projects members of the communities within which scorecard score is now at Level 5 compliance had been introduced in 2011.
EVRAZ EVRAZ Highveld operates and will primarily 55.48 compared to Level 8 30.34 in 2010. funded a centre for hippotherapy in Nizhniy focus on social development, education and Tagil a special kind of physical therapy health issues.
This has been delivered through the where a trained horse is used for establishment of a transformation division childrens treatment and a Lekoteka in In particular, we are supporting a hydroponics in 2010 which has implemented a range Novokuznetsk a centre for children with and agricultural project, which combines of activities such as improving the special needs that combines treatment realistic, alternative work opportunities for local representation of historically disadvantaged with education through games.
A new people whilst also improving access to basic people in senior management structures, and promising approach was introduced nutrition.
This project, in the 60-household the development of education programmes, in Nizhniy Tagil as a result of EVRAZs village of Makwana, was established in 2011 preferential procurement agreements and support: therapy through storytelling.
to support emerging agricultural activities support for the development of local black Other types of activities included art which are hampered by a water shortage.
owned businesses as preferred suppliers.
therapy and aquatic therapy swimming.
After providing training for villagers in 2011, In Novokuznetsk EVRAZ helped parents a hydroponics and agricultural hub will be The target for 2012 is a score of 58.
Employee of children with cerebral palsy to establish established in 2012 as a training centre and input in transformation initiatives was enhanced a regional advocacy group that works to local market that can provide a reliable outlet in 2011 with the establishment of a Diversity raise awareness about the disabled and of fresh produce from households in the area.
The Forum, whose the issues they are facing.
membership comprises employees and union In Canada, EVRAZ is involved with representatives, is involved in transformation, several non-profit organisations, including skills development, equal opportunities and The United Way, Junior Achievement and remuneration and awardsmatters.
others, addressing a variety of issues, such as family violence, drug abuse and education.
EVRAZ also supports the Canadian Cancer Societys Relay for Life, an annual event that helps celebrate cancer survivors.
In the United States EVRAZ supports several local NGOs including local scouts chapters, child abuse prevention programmes, an autism awareness campaign, education initiatives including financial literacy training and programmes that provide assistance to the needy.
50 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pulverised Coal Injection at EVRAZ NTMK In October 2009 EVRAZ began implementation of a PCI technology in the blast furnace at EVRAZ NTMK.
The use of PCI technology at EVRAZ NTMK should lead to higher revenues from extra coke sales and lower hot metal production costs, because of the savings generated by using PCI fuel in place of natural gas and reducing the amount of coke used.
The project scope includes: coal storage, batching and transportation, PCI fuel production and injection.
Construction is underway and commissioning works will start in August 2012 and the project will be finished by the end of 2012.
EVRAZ NTMK Asset Location in Russia Moscow EVRAZ NTMK 20% More than 20% expected reduction in coke consumption Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 51 51 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2011 t and Accounts 2011 Financial Review
