Exillon Energy corporate Social responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY There is always room for improvement in developing further our overall cSr strategy and policies.
We are committed to doing this.
Sound corporate social responsibility is not only important to the sustainable development of the communities in which we operate, and to all of our stakeholders, but its also key to the sustainable growth and development of our business.
it continues to be a key strategic issue for us, and a regular agenda item at our Board and management meetings.
CSR Oversight and Implementation The cSr committee is responsible for developing, and the policy sets out the correct method for monitoring and reporting on our corporate social raising any such concerns.
The policy confers no responsibility policies and activities.
The members contractual rights on employees.
of the cSr committee are an independent nonexecutive director Ezio Bracco, the Chief At the operational level, Health, Safety and Executive Officer, and the Chief Operating Officer.
Environment HSE is managed at Exillon WS The cSr committee meets twice a year and reports and Exillon Tp by designated members of local to the Board.
management who report to the general Director of their respective companies and our group chief We are committed to embedding the principles of Operating Officer.
sound corporate social responsibility throughout our businesses.
We adopted a revised, clearer At the initiative of the chairman of the cSr and shorter statement of business practice for the committee, all members of the Board of Directors guidance of employees.
Employees are made travelled to Urai, West Siberia, and to some of aware of the statement at the time of employment the oilfield installations at Exillon WS.
The tour, and are required annually to acknowledge in in April 2011, provided a first-hand opportunity writing that they have once again reviewed it.
for the directors to meet local management and We have a Whistleblower policy that encourages employees, and to make personal observations on the detection and reporting of malpractice.
We such matters as health & safety and environmental recognise that incidents of workplace fraud, impact.
The Board members were informed of the wrongdoing or mismanagement are possible in any results of a recent review conducted by the State business and we are committed to ensuring that inspectorate of labour of the Khanty-Mansiysk any such malpractice is prevented from happening area.
The inspectorate had recommended some and immediately dealt with if it does arise.
We corrections, and the Board members were made encourage employees to raise their concerns aware of the remedial actions taken.
Further about any malpractice at the earliest possible stage recommendations were made.
9 corporate Social responsibility Health and Safety Exillon Energy plc is subject to a wide range of in addition, our Health, Safety and Environment russian Federal regulations relating to health and Department carries out quarterly safety audits of safety, notably the Federal law on industrial our field operations.
Findings on these audits are Safety of Hazardous industrial Facilities and presented to the general Directors of Exillon Tp various parts of the russian labour code.
We and Exillon WS as well as to our chief operating 1 comply with goST standards on environmental Officer.
There are at present no significant and production safety.
We have a comprehensive recommendations arising from these audits.
Environmental and production Safety programme in 2011, we once again reported no fatalities and EPSP, which includes policies related to no work-related injuries.
Our Lost Time Injury personnel safety, emergency control and Frequency rate for 2011 was therefore zero and production safety.
our long-term target would be to sustain this Employees receive regular mandatory training impressive level.
Any incidents are a cause of grave and drills on emergency response, well blowconcern and we remain committed to providing a out prevention, oil and other hazardous liquid safe and supportive work environment for all.
We spills prevention, hydrogen sulphide safety did not pay any compensation claims in 2011. knowledge, first aid training, fire safety and With the exception of those based in Moscow, fire fighting equipment.
The Federal Service for all of our employees in russia are provided with Ecological, Technological and nuclear Supervision medical insurance dental, diagnostic, consulting Rostekhnadzor, which ensures compliance and immediate hospital treatment if needed.
with safety rules, periodically inspects our field Employees of Exillon Middle East Dubai and their operations and has found them compliant to date.
families are also provided with medical insurance.
The next inspections are scheduled for June 2012.
Environment Exillon Energy recognises the importance of in addition, the group has long-term obligations protecting the environment in all of its activities relating to decommissioning of operational and aims to fulfill this commitment by complying facilities and remediation of soil or groundwater, with relevant environmental legislation and liability for waste disposal.
regulations, continuous improvement of environmental management practices and Exillon Energy seeks to meet high standards for preventing pollution.
our commitment to the GOST standards includes specific requirements for The Groups operations are subject to various environmental protection and hazard control.
environmental laws and regulations in russia, including those governing emissions: wastewater The group regularly audits the environmental discharges: the reclamation of contaminated soil: impact of all aspects of its activities.
Environmental and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous protection and hazard control measures include: substances and wastes.
Sampling of air, water and soil control of stationary sources of air pollution emission laboratory analysis of surface water Monitoring condition of streams, water conservation zones, coastal slopes Transporting sewage to treatment facilities installation of equipment for storing dangerous refuse Forsage-1 industrial waste furnaces Training managers and staff in environmental protection and hazard control recycling of domestic waste Installation of power generators utilising gas that otherwise would be flared 1 goST standards are technical standards originally developed for use in the Soviet Union and now maintained by the EuroAsian Council for Standardisation, Metrology and Certification, a regional standards organisation operating under the auspice of the commonwealth of independent States.
10 Exillon Energy corporate Social responsibility We spent a total of US$0.88 million on environmental protection in 2011 20: US$0.57 million, of which US$0.18 million was spent at Exillon TP 2010: US$0.54 million and US$0.70 million was spent at Exillon WS 2010: US$0.03 million.
recent instalments of gas power generators at both Exillon WS and Exillon Tp have increased our gas utilisation rate, and we continue to explore ways to increase this further.
Employees At the end of 2011 we employed 338 staff, of Key engineering staff receive compulsory training whom 22 were employed by Exillon Middle East in in production safety, which is delivered by the state Dubai, 20 by regional resources llc in Moscow, authorities or service providers certified by the 164 by Exillon WS and 132 by Exillon Tp.
Staff are tested on industrial safety and subsoil protection once every three years.
other training dealt with fire fighting, first aid dressing, our success depends to a large degree on our oil spill responses, and labour and industrial safety.
ability to recruit, motivate and retain senior management and highly skilled employees in a competitive job market.
To this end, we Exillon Tp and Exillon WS provide support for their established an employee share plan to create employees at times of marriage, births, funerals, incentives for Executive Directors and senior and other major events.
We support our employees career development and career progression, by providing stable and fair compensation and benefits, as well as extensive training.
Gender Diversity Exillon is generally supportive of gender diversity The Board of Directors is composed of five in the workplace.
However, as a young and still members, one of whom is a woman.
our small organisation, it is too soon to establish five-person Executive Committee includes one meaningful medium-term quantitative targets woman.
We have approximately 338 employees for women on our Board of Directors.
We will, of whom 57 are female, making up 17% of our however, make every effort, reflecting our current workforce.
scale and consistent with our core objective to sustain and generate shareholder value, to recruit and train suitably qualified women at every level of the organization.
Community Relations Exillon WS annually contributes to the budget remodelling of apartments for pensioners and of the Administration of the Kondinsky area of help for needy families.
Exillon Tp provides the Khanty-Mansiysk autonomous region for charity support on a regular basis: in 2011, it the social needs of people in that area, such as provided help for the school in Usinsk.
