50 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility at Experian is a way of doing things that underpins all aspects of the business and is intrinsically linked to the risk management framework and supports the business strategys focus on sustainable growth.
Corporate responsibility Creating a positive environment for growth Supporting strategic goals: Leading to benefits including: Become the most Greater understanding by Improved public understanding of trusted consumer employees, and all the people they Experians commitment to financial brand for credit influence, of Experians positive role education information and in credit management identity protection services Create successful New product ideas with More robust business cases Stronger CR credentials businesses in new strong social benefits for new developments, with new and existing customer segments supporting entry in new including social aspects of clients, supporting bids markets risk and opportunity and proposals Extend global lead in Improved understanding of Greater respect for Experian and credit information and data standards and Experians its data standards with clients and analytics responsibilities among sales teams potential clients and ultimately and with clients consumers CR objectives: Raise awareness of sales Build criteria and metrics around Increase employee awareness teams to their compliance social, ethical and environmental of the positive role of credit and responsibilities and Experians SEE impact into product and credit reporting and Experians data standards technology developments commitment to consumer education Experian has a responsibility to: Use and protect Create social and economic Inform and empower data properly benefit through Experians consumers products and services Business review Corporate responsibility 51 Corporate responsibility is about doing key responsibilities were originally responsibilities, the Group business with integrity, thinking ahead defined in 2007 8 and a CR governance looked at what was most material, about the implications of business structure and strategy set out to ensure to risk and opportunity.
The leaders activity for a range of stakeholders.
stakeholders views are considered and accountable for each responsibility set For Experian, business is about helping that responsibilities to wider society are an annual CR related objective and the the world make smarter decisions built into business decision making.
benefits can be seen to directly support but, at the same time, doing the right The six responsibilities play a part in four of the five goals and the core thing for our employees, consumers supporting Experians sustainable strategic framework.
and suppliers, as well as clients growth.
The link is not coincidental: and shareholders.
Experians six when defining the six key Corporate responsibility Improved employee motivation Most appropriate talent and engagement leading to attracted, leading to reduced better retention and reduced recruitment costs recruitment costs Build large-scale Support for regions building their Increased capacity for implementing operations in capacity and starting work in new community projects with a common major emerging communities theme of financial education and consumer economies entrepreneurship Reduced business costs and Stronger CR credentials with new improved employee motivation and and existing clients, supporting bids engagement and proposals Following up survey results, seek Update our community policy, Achieve a total of 5% reduction better understanding of what ensure it is globally applicable, in utility energy consumption makes employees see Experian reactivate a multi-region forum normalised per US$1,000 of sales as a good corporate citizen and and create a set of common tools over the three years 2010-2012 and use this to inform work on whats to support local, regional activity ensure quarterly energy and travel most valued by our people data is received from all regions Be a good Play an active part in Minimise environmental employer to all our communities impacts 52 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Embedding CR A project to make CR more relevant to The CR strategy concentrates on employees was initiated at Experian three principal activities: The CR governance process evolved this year and will show considerable this year to give greater accountability benefits in the coming year.
Steps were to the people who naturally lead the Embedding CR in also taken to embed social, ethical six responsibilities, aligning the everyday business and environmental considerations in CR structure with Experians matrix product development processes and management.
These six responsibility a project was set up to engage with a Innovating for leaders set annual objectives and wide range of stakeholders over their social benefit provide reports on progress to the views on CR at Experian.
Focusing the The data gathering and performance community management systems for CR data programme on have also developed during the year.
financial education Coordinators and management and entrepreneurship champions are now able to provide regional performance data on a CR governance regular basis and will commence CR CR is led by the Head of Global Management Information reporting Corporate Responsibility and a from 2011 12. network of CR coordinators and CR management champions.
The Chief Executive Officer reports on progress against the CR strategy to the Experian plc Board at each of its meetings, and the Head of Global Corporate Experian plc Board Responsibility reports in person to the Board at least once a year.
Regional and global CR achievements, and progress on objectives Global CR Experian plc Company Secretary Head of Global CR Funding bids, Global objectives and progress funding bid decisions, regional CR Reports Global Global Global CR management champions Information Global Product and Global HR Global CR Facilities Security and Technology Marketing Information Management Compliance Services and co-operation as needed Performance Products Data Employer Consumer Environment Community data, funding bids, and Services CR case studies Regional CR coordinators and data providers Six responsibilities Business review Corporate responsibility 53 Innovating for social benefit with Microfinance Institutions and the to develop Experians Diversity Monitor World Bank and an initial scorecard tool that can help analyse a set of first Investment in innovative products developed.
A new business model and family names and provide insight and services with a strong benefit was approved and the Experian to the likely origins of the people listed.
for society, Experians Big Ideas MicroAnalytics business launched in Trevor Philips, Chair of the Commission programme, has been particularly April 2010, with a mission to contribute for Equality and Human Rights in the successful this year.
directly, over the next 10 years, to UK, has commented on the products the financial inclusion of over 150m significant potential as a tool to support Tackling financial exclusion unbanked-adults.
In June 2010 it diversity planning in the workplace.
In 2009 Big Idea funding of US$150,000 completed a branchless banking pilot in Experian has made its first sales and was allocated to support research the Philippines and signed its first two developed case studies based on the into a microfinance opportunity deals in December 2010. products benefits.
It has also used with significant social benefits.
the tool to look at its own diversity in The proposition was to improve the Improving workplace diversity the UK workplace and to help ensure it efficiency of the microlending process, is in line with the diversity of the local Another Big Idea also came to fruition reduce the cost to the end user and population.
The UK Equalities Act during the year.
Using the experience improve access to finance.
During legislation came into force in April 2011 and knowledge of naming conventions, early 2010 the business model was creating more focus on this area.
built up over many years, Experian tested: relationships were established worked with Professor Richard Webber Understanding employee diversity Understanding the ethnic diversity of employees is The Royal Free Hospital RFH in London has used Diversity increasingly important to organisations in order to ensure Monitor to profile its 6,600 employees and to compare this to their workforce draws on all available talent and reflects the a sample of 75,000 of its patients and to the local catchment rich diversity of customers served.
The results have enabled the hospital to consider the representation of ethnic groups in different roles and to see Traditionally, this information has relied on self disclosure how this reflects the ethnic diversity of patients and the local through time-consuming surveys, where results are often community.
It has also allowed the RFH to make comparisons incomplete and skewed by factors such as inconsistent with important national trends when recruiting black and definitions of ethnicity.
Experians Diversity Monitor solves minority ethnic people into medical roles.
these problems by matching the names of individuals against a database of three million first and family names.
Through careful statistical weighting, it provides a consistent picture of the ethnic mix of any list of names.
54 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility continued Focusing the community programme Community investment Central funds are granted to Experians 2011 2010 regions during the year based on bids Re-presented US$000 US$000 assessed by the CR management champions.
The proportion of the Funds from Experian plc 1,076 1,001 1 total available grant focused on Financial donations from Experian subsidiaries 1,196 1,258 financial education or supporting Employee time volunteered 471 595 entrepreneurial activity is expected Gifts in kind 250 343 to be at least 75%.
This year the Management costs 217 179 proportion was 88% with North Total from Experian 3,210 3,376 America and Brazil spending 100% 2 As % of Benchmark PBT 0.34% 0.40% of their allocated funds on focused projects.
Employee fundraising 617 679 GUS Charitable Trust donations - 602 Total value of all giving 3,827 4,657 2 As a % of Benchmark PBT 0.39% 0.54% 1.
Re-presented from US$932,000 in the prior year to bring North America in line with practice across other regions 2.
See note 3 to the Group financial statements Providing consumers with protection from identity theft Kerry from Martinez in California last year became one of about than 20 fraudulent enquiries, as well as attempts to change ten million Americans to fall victim to identity theft.
She lost her her address with the post office.
This was more than Kerry purse to a street mugger and after cancelling her credit cards felt able to cope with on her own and she was quickly assigned was advised by her bank to contact Experian.
Thats when her own Identity Theft Resolution Agent, Peggy.
she learnt about ProtectMyID, a part of Experian that provides Peggy has been a lifeline in negotiating the horrible credit consumers with daily monitoring of their credit profile across mess that happened as a result of identity theft, says Kerry.
all three US credit bureaux, including the support of Identity I feel much safer and know a lot more about protecting Theft Resolution Agents to help resolve identity theft issues.
myself thanks to ProtectMyID and my dedicated Identity Kerry enrolled with ProtectMyID and was soon alerted to a Theft Resolution Agent.
number of fraudulent credit enquiries that were being made in her name.
She took the necessary steps to handle these, but nine months later they suddenly turned into a flood of more Governance x 55 x Governance 56 Board of directors 58 Directors report 62 Corporate governance statement 74 Report on directors remuneration
