Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executive Officer FENNER BELIEVES THAT BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOUR, A GOOD Nicholas Hobson EMPLOYER AND A POSITIVE INFLUENCE IN OUR COMMUNITIES UNDERPINS THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS directors to each operating units senior addition to the statutory investigation under Approach and governance management.
All policies and associated the auspices of the Department of Mines and The Fenner Group understands that corporate management systems are reviewed at least Petroleum of Western Australia, we are responsibility can be an important driver of annually and at any time when significant engaged in a thorough and independent long-term sustainable business success.
changes in the business, legislation or industry investigation in conjunction with two other Additionally, the Group understands that its standard demand.
Each division is encouraged parties.
Both investigations are continuing and market leading position means it has social to reflect good practice within the Group.
are unlikely to report until early 2012. and environmental responsibilities that must be embedded within its business decision The Company is proud to continue to be a The Group endeavours to set the highest making process.
Fenner strives to understand member of the FTSE4Good UK Index which practical H&S standards and it is understood and manage significant risks to the measures the performance of companies that that no job is so critical or urgent that it may environment and communities in which it not be done in a safe and controlled manner.
meet globally recognised Corporate operates.
The risks associated with the five Responsibility standards and facilitates As a minimum, each operating unit will key areas of Health and safety, Employees, investment into those companies.
always comply fully with its local statutory Ethical conduct, Environment and Community obligations and all employees are trained to involvement that are dealt with in this report Health and safety recognise that the health and safety of are managed within the Groups risk themselves and others is their first priority.
Fenner promotes a strong health and safety management framework and are continuously H&S culture.
We believe that anyone who All operating units have a H&S committee monitored and assessed, with necessary works for Fenner should expect to return which meets regularly to discuss H&S topics controls put in place in order to reduce any home in the same fit and healthy state in and concerns, make recommendations and potential impact.
This report describes the which they came to work.
It is expected that implement and monitor any improvements or actions taken over the past year to ensure everyone who works for Fenner, regardless of initiatives.
H&S issues and key measurements that the Groups commitment and approach to location, is responsible for the safety of both are also routinely reviewed and discussed at these responsibilities continues to contribute themselves and their colleagues.
This management meetings, with accidents, to its overall business success, bringing with individual and collective responsibility helps serious incidents and near misses reported it an enhancement to reputation, profitability us to ensure that the environment in which we and escalated to the Executive Committee and and shareholder return.
all work is safe for ourselves, our colleagues Board where appropriate.
and customers and all those with whom we The Board sets the strategy and has overall responsibility for the development and work.
It is therefore with profound sadness The dissemination of information on a Groupmonitoring of the Groups policies related to that we report an employee fatality as a result wide basis is recognised as an important tool of a third party incident at a customer facility in ensuring continual improvement in all H&S Corporate Responsibility.
The task of ensuring that these policies are communicated and in Western Australia.
The findings of H&S investigations applied at a divisional and operating unit level management were on site promptly to relevant to the wider organisation are is delegated through the senior managing organise help and support for the family.
In communicated across locations and a general Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 40 Corporate Responsibility continued exchange of information and resources embedded in the organisation.
The programme There were a number of operating units that between operations is actively encouraged.
comprises visits by independent H&S experts were in contention for this years award, with who review documentation, engage with staff at the conveyor belting operations in Kwinana Group Health & Safety Management System and Revesby, Australia, the Fenner Dunlop all levels in the operating unit and assess the Framework local H&S culture and behaviours.
The aims of Americas operation in Toledo, USA and the The Group Health & Safety Management the assurance programme are two-fold: to Prodesco operation in Perkasie, USA all System Framework, known as The provide independent assurance to the Executive receiving commendations for the improvements Framework, was launched in January 2009. that they have made over the last year.
All of Committee and the Board regarding the state of local safety management systems and safety these operating units have managed a full The Framework covers those areas key to culture across the Group: and to help each year of operation without incurring any lost ensuring a robust, all-encompassing and time incidents LTIs.
Kwinana and Revesby location to both develop a clear understanding continually improving H&S culture within the have achieved two years of operation without Group: of areas which require improvement and identify instances of best practice.
In addition, the conveyor belt service Accountability and Leadership: network in Chile received a commendation for Health and safety awards achieving a full year without recording an LTI, Risk Assessment and Management: A number of the Groups operating units have a remarkable achievement in an area of received external recognition and awards Training and Behaviours: Group operations that is recognised internally during the year for their performance in H&S.
as having the highest H&S risk.
Operations and Maintenance: These included: The 2011 Fenner Group Health and Safety Information and Documentation: the Fenner Advanced Sealing Improvement Award has been awarded to the Technologies FAST operation in Customers and Products: Fenner Dunlop Americas operation in Houston, USA received a Safety Vigilance Lavonia, USA who achieved a reduction in LTIs Incident Analysis and Prevention: award for significant improvements in from four in 2009 10 to nil in 2010 11.
Some overall safety performance awarded by key attributes leading to this success involve Monitoring, Assurance and Improvement: Consulting Safety Managers, Inc who help the ability of the local management to engage Crisis Management and Business us with the global assurance programme: and energise all the employees into taking Continuity Planning: personal ownership of the safety agenda in all the FAST operation in Hampton, UK their activities and having a set of clear Management of Change: secured the prestigious RoSPA Gold priorities which are regularly reviewed by Award for the fifth successive year Working with Third Parties: management and the local Safety Committee.
highlighting the sites continued As the priorities are addressed, the review excellence in the management and Design and Construction of Facilities: and process ensures that new concerns raised by control of H&S: Community and Stakeholder Awareness.
the workforce, as part of their continuous Fenner Drives in Manheim, USA received improvement culture, are added to the list.
The response within the Group to the the National Safety Council Occupational structure and clarity provided by The Excellence Achievement Award: and Employees Framework has been extremely positive.
It is Fenner understands that its employees are the Fenner Dunlop Americas operation in recognised that embedding The Framework in critical to the continued success of the Group.
Port Clinton, USA received an to Group operations will be a long-term The Groups ability to consistently deliver achievement award for the reduction in project as it necessitates a degree of cultural reliable and superior solutions to customers injuries for 2010.
This was issued by the change.
The process is built on individual is founded upon a stable, technically skilled, Ottawa County Safety Council and the operating unit improvement plans that are innovative and committed workforce.
Due to Ohio Bureau of Workers Compensation.
Each year, all operating the global nature of the Groups business and units review what improvements have been Since 2008, we have awarded the Fenner customer base, we have a geographically and achieved in the previous year and revise Group Health and Safety Improvement Award culturally diverse workforce.
On average priorities based on long-term improvement to the operating unit which has made the during the year, the Group employed 4,548 goals and new input gleaned from sources most progress towards achieving our goals of people 2010: 3,938 of which 25% were including incident investigations, assurance making safety the top priority in all work located in Europe, 47% in the Americas, 4% in visits and Group industry communications.
environments and ensuring that all those who Africa and 24% in Asia Pacific.
The Group fully Assurance programme work for Fenner can expect to return home in embraces its multi-national dimension and, A programme of H&S assurance audits is in the same fit and healthy state in which they as a minimum, complies with local labour place to monitor how The Framework is being came to work.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 41 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration Fenner takes its responsibilities as an appraisal processes have been locally which identify the best available candidate for employer seriously and aims to provide a developed in the majority of the Groups each position.
All employees are actively positive work environment for all employees, encouraged to apply for roles, including cross operations.
Employees take part in a formal wherever they work.
The Group recognises annual appraisal to discuss performance, divisional opportunities where applicable.
and values diversity within the workforce and achievements and potential areas for In general, the operations within the Group believes in treating all employees with dignity development and progression.
The process have positive histories of high employee and respect.
Fenner is committed to providing also ensures that a continuing communication retention and the majority of operations have equal opportunities in recruitment and between management and employees takes a long service recognition programme in employment and does not discriminate place.
Fenner is proud of the fact that the against any person based on gender, race, current average period of service across the The risks associated with inadequate age, caste, origin, religion, disability, sexual operating units of the Group stands at 8.3 succession planning are recognised at Group orientation or any other status protected by years 2010: 9.3 years.
These risks are continuously monitored law.
Should an existing employee become period of employment has reduced from last and, where possible, the Group aims to disabled, Fenner aims to continue employing years figure, this is due to the fact that identify high potential employees and, through them in their original capacity where Fenner has increased its workforce over the a process of training and development, practicable or provide suitable alternate year in line with increased sales and there are prepare them for potential senior employment.
Fenner does not tolerate any therefore a significant number of new management.
form of harassment, discrimination or starters.
bullying and is committed to progression Alongside its focus on training and based on merit.
Communication development, Fenner is keen to promote the Fenner recognises the importance of open welfare of its employees.
At the conveyor Training and development and timely communication in helping to belting facility in Johannesburg, South Africa, Fenner recognises the importance of increase employee awareness and healthcare screening is provided for all providing training and development understanding of the culture and vision at employees through the use of an on-site opportunities to enable employees to increase both a local and Group level.
At Group level, health clinic.
Fenner Dunlop Europes UK site their contribution to the Group and realise the Fenner Focus magazine is produced and introduced a health screening programme in their full potential.
Training takes place at all distributed to all employees and is an effective early 2011 to provide employees with blood levels throughout the Group, up to and route to communicate matters of Group and pressure and cholesterol monitoring, body including the Board.
Upon joining Fenner, operational significance.
The magazine mass index screening and general lifestyle employees receive robust induction training informs employees of Group developments advice.
Other healthcare initiatives, including on a variety of subjects, particularly health and also provides an opportunity to highlight vaccination programmes, are run across and safety and Group policies and procedures.
and recognise operating units and individuals various operations worldwide.
A number of Additional training requirements are for their work in the community, health and the operations have set up wellness stands continually assessed at a local level and safety initiatives and long service awards.
The to educate employees on a variety of healthfurther appropriate training is provided to annual results are summarised in the meet the development needs of both the related topics.
The Fenner Dunlop Americas publication, enabling all employees to be kept operation and the employee.
Annual employee operation in Bracebridge, Canada reimburses informed of the Groups performance.
At a the joining fee for any employees who join a local level, operating units communicate local fitness club, whilst Xeridiem in Tucson, regularly with their employees using a variety USA offers to provide gym membership for Employees by location of methods including staff meetings, employees who are diabetic or pre-diabetic.
management walkabouts, newsletters, At a local level, employees are often 24% consultative councils, suggestion schemes, encouraged to participate in voluntary 4% electronic messaging and social events.
All preventative healthcare programmes such as operating units encourage two-way weight loss and smoking cessation.
These communications and provide channels for programmes have enjoyed successes: for feedback and comment on the Groups 25% example Prodescos smoking cessation activities.
programme resulted in a quarter of attendees 47% successfully giving up smoking.
Ethical conduct Recruitment and retention Fenner believes fundamentally in the principle The recruitment and retention of a skilled that a well run organisation is one whose Europe Asia Pacific workforce is essential to the Group.
Each officers and employees operate with high Americas Africa operating unit employs recruitment practices standards of integrity, behave in an ethical Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 42 Corporate Responsibility continued manner and demonstrate responsible Whistleblowing helpline All operating units have, or are working corporate behaviour.
The Group recognises In early 2011, the Board approved the towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent status and implementation of a dedicated independent each undertakes rigorous customer that both its corporate conduct and and confidential helpline that all employees satisfaction assessments including senior relationship building are key elements in across the world can use to raise concerns of face to face meetings and customer surveys.
ensuring the success of its business strategy.
The helpline went live Performance and the timing and handling of By having a high standard of ethical conduct, in July 2011 and has been publicised to any complaints are routinely discussed at partnerships can be formed with third parties employees through a poster campaign and management meetings and are used as a key throughout the Groups supply chain which informatory meetings at an operating unit measurement in determining the success of create value on both sides of the relationship.
Calls to the helpline are free and the the operating unit.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the helpline operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a development and monitoring of the Groups Environment week.
policies relating to corporate behaviour and Concern for the Groups impact on the for ensuring that those policies are Third party partnerships environment is a fundamental part of the understood and communicated to employees.
Fenner recognises that strong relationships Groups corporate business strategy as it Responsibility for ethical and behavioural with its suppliers and customers are crucial.
endeavours to contribute towards a standards in each division is delegated via the Having strong supplier relations ensures a sustainable future.
divisional managing director to the senior reliable, high quality and fairly priced source manager at each operating unit.
of goods and services which can then be The Group is committed to identifying and passed on to customers.
Fenner expects that assessing the risks of pollution and other Business conduct all business partners will adhere to the high forms of environmental impairment arising The Groups culture is one of openness, levels of ethical behaviour that Fenner applies out of its activities and actively seeks to integrity and accountability.
In addition, we expect strategic reduce its impact on the environment to the are enshrined within the new Fenner Code of partners and service customers to have lowest practical level by ensuring that all Business Conduct which received Board health and safety management systems that operations and activities of the Group approval in 2011.
The Code sets out the are aligned with those of the Group.
exemplify best contemporary practice in behavioural standards expected from all respect of the environment.
Fenner seeks to identify and develop employees: fairness, honesty and integrity.
appropriate and long-term strategic Waste minimisation The Code is an overarching policy which is partnerships with suppliers and customers to The minimisation of manufacturing waste and supported by additional policies and create mutual value, access to new markets the maximisation of energy efficiency are both procedures at both a Group and operating unit and to mitigate resource and commercial recognised as beneficial to the Group from an level.
Following the Codes adoption, a new risks.
These strategic partnerships are environmental and commercial viewpoint.
training plan is being devised for operating especially relevant to the number of highly units to provide training on the prevention of Waste minimisation is driven and managed at technical niche markets where joint bribery and corruption, with a focus on the UK the operating unit level.
All major development agreements can expedite Bribery Act.
manufacturing operations monitor their waste research whilst protecting intellectual emissions and all operating units comply with A high level risk review has been undertaken property rights.
to identify territories where our employees could be at risk of encountering bribery or Energy usage Water usage corruption, either as a result of their job function or due to the industry or jurisdiction 125 125 in which they work.
Training will be provided to all such at risk employees, initially 100 100 through on-site seminars where appropriate and video training.
Over the forthcoming year, 75 75 Fenner aims to implement a mandatory third party e-learning training programme that all 50 50 at risk employees will be expected to complete.
25 25 Competition and anti-trust procedures are 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 0 0 co-ordinated at Group level and training is provided for all relevant employees.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 43 Usage per of sales 2009 100 Usage per of sales 2009 100 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration local environment legislation.
General waste If these figures are analysed across the management systems.
These systems are in management programmes and initiatives are Group, the heavier engineering aspects of the line with the Group Environmental Policy and encouraged and the recycling of materials ECS operations account for nearly 82% of the The Framework which outline a set of Group takes place where practical, either internally Groups greenhouse gas emissions.
Currently, 35% of the Group is either accredited or working or through external programmes with 2010 11 has seen an increase in absolute towards accreditation under the suppliers or other third parties.
energy consumption of 14% over 2009 10 internationally recognised ISO14001 scheme.
This is primarily due to Greenhouse gas emissions, energy and increased manufacturing output at most water usage Community involvement operating locations.
All of our operating units The Group recognises the increase in public Fenner believes that good relations and longmanage their energy efficiency as part of their awareness of the climate change debate and term partnerships with the communities in normal operating cost control.
Examples the need for companies to understand the which it works are fundamental to its success.
include: the purchase of new equipment with scale of their greenhouse gas emissions.
It Fenner always considers the potential social consideration of lifetime energy costs: studies also recognises that there is no globally and environmental impacts that its business underway to replace older boilers with more accepted methodology for calculating activities may have on those communities and efficient modern boilers: and widespread emissions, with most countries having a such considerations are embedded within the utilisation of energy efficient lighting.
portfolio of emission factors for various Groups decision making processes.
The energy sources based on either the average Groups support for the communities it The Group does not set global targets for composition of primary fuels or averaged operates in is driven at a local, rather than greenhouse gas emissions but does comply emission factors for secondary energy corporate level.
The approach, adopted across with local legislative requirements.
However, sources such as electricity purchased from a the globe, is to support and enhance the Group recognises the ever increasing national grid.
Whilst these averages are employee efforts in their communities public awareness of climate change and inherently inaccurate, they are the generally through the application of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions and consequently accepted methodology for estimating the end resources.
is in the process of developing internal users greenhouse gas emissions for year on systems and procedures which will enable During the year, charitable, social and year reporting.
To this end, the Group has management to monitor energy usage and community-related donations of 151,172 elected to report global figures based on emissions more frequently.
This will generate 2010: 84,171 were made across the Group emission factors published by the UK increased awareness of the environmental as shown in the Donations chart.
Government department responsible for impact of our operations across the Group climate change issues: DEFRA.
and facilitate more detailed disclosure in the The Groups Code of Business Conduct future.
prohibits political donations: accordingly, no The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
political donations were made during the year.
The main contributors to greenhouse gas Environmental management systems emissions are imported electricity and natural Taking into account local requirements and Employees and operating units have given gas which combined, account for 88% of the needs, operating units have established a their time and helped raise funds for a variety Groups emissions.
number of different local environmental of charities and projects over the past year.
Greenhouse gas emissions Donations 27% 12% 1.0% 4% 1.9% 45% 8% 2.3% 0.1% 43% 61% 2.7% Electricity Other Petrol Coal Water Community Education Natural Gas Fuel Oil Diesel LPG Health Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 44 Corporate Responsibility continued Examples are given below.
organisations with direct involvement and coaching by employees.
Organisations Education included the Boy Scouts of America, Employees at Fenner Drives in Manheim, Blacklick Valley Football Boosters and the USA volunteered to teach classes at local Blairsville Community Action Committee.
Junior Achievement encourages young people to learn and become more aware of business in their lives and the world around them by bringing volunteers from Nicholas Hobson the business world into the classroom.
Chief Executive Officer Fenner Dunlop Europe in the UK continued to support Hull Compact, a charitable organisation that helps children develop their academic potential by providing a university bursary to a Hull student on a financial needs basis.
It also offers work experience placements for pupils at local schools.
James Dawson in the UK sponsored a local girls school netball team who embarked on a trip to Kenya and also sponsored the local under-eights football kit.
Community The FAST operation in Wixom, USA became a member of the local Chamber of Commerce.
They also worked with the City of Wixom to recruit employees from the local community.
Prodesco in Perkasie, USA conducts a twice yearly Red Cross blood drive in which almost half of employees participate.
The Fenner Dunlop Americas operation in Lavonia, USA, amongst other causes, supported local community job fairs and the Lavonia Salvation Army Angel Christmas Tree which provides clothing and toys for children within the community.
The FAST operation in Houston, USA supported the Texas Oilmans Charity which raises money for local charitable organisations.
It also supported the Lamar Little League Program which sponsors baseball teams for local youth.
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services in the USA supported local youth activity Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 45
