Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Chairmans Statement About this Report External Assurance Relevance of CSR to the Group The Board and its Corporate Safety and This report has been self-reviewed, which is The Ferrexpo Boards commitment to Social Responsibility CSR Committee considered to be appropriate at this stage in corporate social responsibility CSR derives described below are committed to the development of our CSR reporting.
from a shared belief that the Groups licence continuing the drive to improve health and to operate will be underpinned by the Groups safety, environmental and social performance Organisational Profile CSR performance.
For many operations and reporting.
As part of this programme the Information on the Group and its activities within former CIS countries, the traditional decision was taken during the year to adopt a may be found in the Business Review on response has been to use legal requirements more coherent structure for reporting which pages 20 to 28 and employee numbers are as the sole benchmark for CSR compliance.
can be built on as the Companys monitoring detailed in note 35 to the Financial By contrast, the Board views legal standards procedures grow.
To this end, this report uses Statements.
For information on the scale of for CSR as a minimum level and is striving to the Global Reporting Initiative framework as a organisation revenues, assets, capitalisation, achieve the highest international standards of reference point, although at this stage it is not etc : please see notes 6, 18 to 21, and 28 to performance in CSR matters.
During 2012 formally reporting against this index.
investment in health, safety and the environment will be maintained.
This report covers the reporting period 1 Governance January 2011 31 December 2011, and The general governance structure of the Company Values reporting is on an annual basis.
However, if Group is explained in the Corporate The values that the Company strives to impart there are any significant CSR issues or Governance Report on page 50. throughout its operations are set out below.
developments during the year, these are reported in the half-yearly report.
The last csr governance ethical standards annual CSR review was in the Companys The Corporate Safety and Social Ferrexpo aims to maintain high standards 2010 Annual Report.
Responsibility Committee of behaviour with all those with whom it The Group has a Corporate Safety and Social deals, both inside and outside the Group.
Report Content Responsibility Committee the CSR Its employees conduct and business The scope of this report covers all areas of Committee which is a sub-committee of the dealings should be associated with Ferrexpos activities and those of its operating main Board and includes two Board honesty and integrity, making it an subsidiaries.
members and two Board non-members.
It attractive and reliable business partner.
monitors the implementation of CSR policies.
The content of this report has been defined The CSR Committee is chaired by Brian community relations by consideration of: Maynard Group Chief Operating Officer.
The Ferrexpos presence and activities should Company principles and policies other members of the CSR Committee are benefit those around it, and its operations Consideration of the Companys strategy Michael Abrahams Chairman of the Board, will benefit if local communities are thriving.
and how this may be affected by Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer Any member company of the Group should sustainable development risks facing the and Viktor Lotous FPM Chief Operating be considered an attractive local employer.
To assist them in the exercise of their Feedback from and interests of duties, the CSR Committee will, from time to stewardship stakeholder groups time, engage specialist technical advisers.
Ferrexpo must develop and manage its Key CSR topics identified by senior resources and facilities in a sensible management engaged with the CSR During the year the matters considered by the manner, having regard for the natural and process CSR Committee and the Board included the social environment in which it operates.
Review against peer group companies following: Companies within the Group should be Legislation and regulation that affects the Monitoring the review of targets and associated with a commitment to Company.
metrics to be set in relation to the CSR achieving the highest environmental and Performance Indicators: this work will safety standards.
The topics covered are those that have been continue in 2012. assessed to be most material to the Reviewing the work being done to safety Company.
We will take account of implement the Kyoto Protocol on Ferrexpo aims at all times to prevent stakeholders views in order to refine and greenhouse gas emissions concentrating injuries to its staff.
build on our CSR reporting.
Overall review of safety in mining and CSR Reporting Report Audience processing operations, including analysis Ferrexpo is committed to improving its CSR The report is aimed principally at existing and of industrial injuries and sickness, reporting.
This is a continuous process and prospective shareholders and investment workplace conditions, and labour safety we welcome feedback from interested parties analysts.
Other users may include local and audits.
national government, employees, Update on the work of DuPont Safety communities affected by the Companys Resources DuPont and their operations, contractors, suppliers, customers recommendations.
Michael Abrahams and the media.
Chairman Business conduct A concern for high standards of business conduct informs the Groups approach to its activities.
A Group Policy on Bribery and overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 41 CSR Strategy Set out below are the short, medium and long-term strategic CSR goals for the Group.
Short-term Medium-term Long-term Health and safety Reduce eliminate recurring injuries Implement effective systems to Implement hazardous operations through improvement in safe ensure compliance with company analysis and risk assessment workplace behaviour safety standards processes to drive best practice Employees Increase availability of improved Increase employee development Integrate recruitment & retention living accommodation programmes systems Environment Keep controlled emissions dust, gas Adapt production techniques so Increase productive output while and effluent below permitted limits and as to minimise use of inputs and reducing the impact on the reduce further where possible minimise waste environment through new processes and technology Improve workplace conditions through the implementation of modern equipment and processes Community Contribute to the development Align the growth of operations with Work jointly with local communities of the education and skills of the land acquisition and city planning to create new infrastructure, social local population, and support the processes for rural and urban living programmes, and leisure activities modernisation of local community infrastructure and services, in order to develop and maintain the local labour pool Conduct successful negotiations with local communities in order to facilitate land acquisition for mining infrastructure Corruption was introduced and circulated to all framework covering values, strategy, policies, the Groups workforce that will allow managers and commercial employees during objectives, targets, monitoring and auditing, the policies agreed by the Board to be the year, with training provided, in order to and communication.
ensure best practice and compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
It is the responsibility of the CSR at FPM adherence to external charters Chief Financial Officer to monitor the Groups As it is still much the largest asset within the Safety anti-bribery policies and report to the Group, FPM provides the main focus for Management continues to take into account Committee of Independent Directors on their development and implementation of the best practice both in Ukraine and abroad.
The Committee of Independent Groups CSR procedures, based on 2011 there was further co-operation with the Directors oversees the operation of business established Group policies.
Within FPM a safety consultants DuPont in the area of ethics and anti-bribery policies and makes any single department has responsibility for all labour safety training and auditing.
aspects of health and safety, security and environmental protection.
This department is In 2006 FPM initiated the development of structure responsible for air and water testing a health and safety management system Commitment to CSR is demonstrated laboratories, the medical centre, fire consistent with the requirements of OHSAS through: prevention service, gas service, civil defence 18001, the internationally recognised standard Group policies and emergency response headquarters and for health and safety management.
This Board and management focus workshops.
This department reports directly system was externally audited under the Asset level management systems to the FPM Chief Operating Officer.
Ukrainian UkrSEPRO system in March 2007 Performance management at all levels and accreditation was obtained in April 2007.
CSR at FYM The accreditation is renewed each year after The Board considers that Ferrexpo has The number of staff at FYM grew steadily an audit, most recently in March 2011. continued to make good progress in 2011.
CSR matters Groups values see the Chairmans Statement form an increasing part of FYMs regular Environment at the beginning of this CSR review are reporting procedures.
FPM and FYM are currently in compliance reflected in a Group-wide Code of Corporate with all applicable standards under Responsibility and Business Ethics.
CSR at Helogistics Holdings environmental laws in Ukraine, which set See section on Helogistics on page 47. requirements for the protection of the natural The CSR Framework environment, the use of natural resources, Management recognises that reaching the All Employees emissions into the atmosphere and water and highest standards will entail a continuous All Group employees are expected to take waste disposal.
FPM holds a number of process of evaluation and improvement personal responsibility for their conduct, and environmental licences and permits, including founded on a sound CSR framework.
management recognises the need to create a permits for atmospheric emission control, Ferrexpo has adopted a seven point CSR cultural and behavioural environment among solid waste disposal, tailings disposal, mine Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued highlights oF 2011 anD challenges For 2012 waste disposal and industrial use of fresh water.
In 2006, the Environmental Department started to develop a full Environmental Management System EMS in accordance with ISO 14001.
The EMS was externally Highlights audited by the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO authority safety and given a certificate of conformity with ISO A marked decline in the accident rate, and no work-related fatalities during 14001 in the second quarter of 2007.
This reflects constant efforts to increase safety standards and reduce system was last audited in May 2011, and the accreditation was confirmed by external injuries.
At FYM, which is at an earlier stage No incidents requiring evacuation of staff or members of the local community.
of development, preparations have been made for ISO 14001 certification which is environment expected to be achieved in 2012.
Emissions levels NO, CO, SO, dust fell in both absolute terms and per 2 2 Stakeholder Engagement tonne of pellets produced.
stakeholders Further regulatory permits were obtained, allowing Ferrexpo to proceed Stakeholders are those groups or individuals with planned mine developments.
who are significantly affected by Ferrexpos activities or those whose actions may affect community initiatives see also panel on page 47 the ability of the Group to implement its strategies and objectives.
Major overhaul of a retirement home in Dmytrivka village including insulation, windows and heating system.
The stakeholder groups that the Group Renovation of the secondary schools in Pryshyb & Dmytrivka villages.
engages with are described below.
Prospecting for water reserves, and construction of water pipeline to Pryshyb village.
shareholders and the investment community Provision of sports facilities in Komsomolsk.
Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional investors and Community Resettlement major shareholders on a range of issues Successful resettlement of 10 homesteads at Voloshyno village away from including performance, strategy and the area in which the new Yeristovo Concentrator is planned to be built.
The Head of Investor Relations manages programmes and communications, particularly at the time of the full and half-year Medical Sponsorship results announcements when presentations Sponsorship of state-of-the-art X-ray diagnostic equipment for three operating are given to analysts, brokers and major theatres, and a fluorograph apparatus with digital data processing, for the shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting is Kremenchug District Hospital.
So far this equipment has been used for an important event in the calendar, giving all shareholders the opportunity to engage examinations of more than 1,000 patients.
Ferrexpo also sponsored the directly with Directors and management.
repair of the surgery department at the same hospital.
customers and suppliers Challenges Ferrexpo has had successful business environment relationships with several of its customers for over 20 years.
Marketing plays an important Maintain the trend towards lower emissions while continuing to develop role in developing new relationships in order the site and increase production.
to diversify the customer base in anticipation of the planned increase in production.
skills availability In order to secure a large pool of labour, FYM runs a job placement employees Successful communication with employees programme for local residents see Case Study panel on page 47. is crucial in helping Ferrexpo to achieve its objectives.
Communication starts at a personal level when employees begin their employment through an induction programme, and continues throughout their time with Ferrexpo.
It takes a variety of forms according to the circumstances from face-to-face discussion to formal group training programmes, from job-specific training to programmes for ensuring compliance with legal or regulatory overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 43 requirements such as that undertaken in government national and local of mining risk is one of its primary operational 2011 in implementing anti-bribery procedures Engagement with local and national goals.
All safety initiatives and processes are across the Group.
Communication is of government is open and proactive.
regularly reviewed by management and course two-way, and employees are Communication often revolves around project adjusted to changing circumstances, with encouraged to give feedback either through implementation and land acquisition, as well the support of third-party service providers their managers or occasional employee as routine submission of information as i. e. DuPont.
Appropriate safety training and surveys for example, a recent survey on required by the authorities.
Recent activities re-training is given to all relevant employees, employee perceptions of safety, conducted included sponsored development of future and their remuneration is partly linked to with DuPont.
town planning in the Kremenchuk district.
The modernisation of plant and equipment has also allowed local communities Risks and Opportunities safer working practices and improved Ferrexpo has a positive impact on local The main CSR-related business risks are: environmental performance.
Accidents are communities through being a major employer.
Mining risks and hazards fully investigated and remedies proposed and As a mining company, it also recognises the Licences implemented.
However, given the nature of sensitivities that surround the occasional Governmental approvals for expansionmining operations there can be no guarantee necessary displacement of small related projects that accidents and fatalities will not occur.
communities by its operations, and those Relocation of communities operations impact on the physical landscape.
There were no fatalities in 2011, and the It works hard to maintain dialogue with local mining risks and hazards accident rate has fallen during the year.
communities, and has a dedicated The Groups mining operations are subject Throughout the Groups 40-year history department through which communications to risks and hazards including industrial of operation it has not experienced any are channelled.
accidents, equipment failure, unusual significant shutdowns.
or unexpected geological conditions, local training institutions environmental hazards, extreme weather licences Ferrexpo works towards establishing a closer conditions especially in winter and other All licences for FPMs operations have been relationship with the local training institutions, natural phenomena.
Many of these risks renewed upon expiry.
The risk of licences with a view to developing accelerated training are outside managements control.
being revoked is low, but requires timely and programmes that improve the flow and quality close monitoring in order to prepare for all of new recruits to its operations.
Mitigation: The Group is dedicated to a externally controlled situations.
zero-harm objective, and the mitigation How Ferrexpo Engages with its Stakeholders shareholDers anD employees anD traDe unions investments community Annual Report and Accounts Face to face regular meetings with Website employees and unions Analyst and investor meetings and Information boards around the site conferences Training Annual General Meeting Written communication and email Written communication and email Surveys Presentations Special programmes e. g. anti-bribery Site visits procedure training customers anD suppliers local communities government national anD local Written communication and email Sponsorship finance and know-how Written communication and email Face to face Funding of community projects Face to face Annual Report and Accounts Local TV Site visits Networking at conferences Local press articles and interviews Audits and inspections Site visits Annual Report and Accounts Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Mitigation: The Group continues to monitor Ferrexpos Approach Performance and review its commitments under its various health and safety Monitoring the effectiveness of health and licences in order to ensure that the conditions Policy safety policies includes the review of health contained within the licences are fulfilled or The prevention of injuries to employees and safety performance, as measured by key the appropriate waivers obtained.
There is is the highest priority of the Board and KPIs as shown below: careful assessment of the situation regarding management.
Policies and practices at 2011 2010 2009 transfers of licences.
Within the operating assets, accountability Lost Time Injury government approvals of expansion for health and safety performance lies with Frequency Rate The process of obtaining governmental senior line management.
LTIFR see note 0.77 1.46 1.11 approvals is time-consuming.
The Yeristovo All operating assets are required to Fatal accidents 0 1 0 Total accidents 11 20 15 mine is being developed according to plan, develop and implement health and safety Lost days 469 916 530 which should mean that there will be no management systems in line with Group problem with the extension of the current policy, including performance Notes mining licence.
The Group does not yet hold management.
LTIFR Number of work-related lost time injuries per million all governmental approvals required to Performance metrics will reflect the man hours.
conduct all of its future expansion projects Groups commitment to strive to achieve that are under study, although none of the the highest standards of health and safety The prevention of injuries to employees approvals applied for to date has been performance.
is the highest priority of the Board and refused by the authorities.
The risk is kept Senior line management is responsible management, who follow the principle that under careful review.
for ensuring that adequate resources are all accidents are avoidable.
There were no committed to health and safety.
They have work-related fatalities within the Group during Mitigation: The Group continues to maintain an obligation to secure their resources 2011, and the accident rate in Ferrexpos an open and proactive relationship with through the Groups planning and operations has fallen.
various governmental authorities and is aware budgeting processes.
of the importance of compliance with local Adequate health and safety training will In line with policy, all accidents are legislation and standards.
The Group be given to all employees and contractors.
investigated to determine the cause maintains strict compliance with the National Specific focus needs to be applied to and identify appropriate remedial action.
Resources Code of Ukraine and execution of behavioural safety at all levels, to fatal This analysis, which also covers minor work in accordance with the project design, risk prevention and to the major industrial accidents not involving time spent off work through the active engagement of Ukrainian health hazards associated with our microtraumas is carried out according to a and international legal advisers.
Fatalities Employees are personally responsible and other serious accidents are additionally relocation of communities this is a for their own safety and that of their investigated by the State authority.
The Board, subsidiary risk, and for that reason is not colleagues.
the CSR Committee and the Executive included in the principal risks on pages Committee require senior management to 34 to 37 Goals provide full reports on the causes of fatal and Certain small rural settlements will have to be Ferrexpos goal is to develop a culture in serious accidents, details of corrective actions relocated in order to allow us to proceed with which safe production is recognised as to prevent these types of accident from some of our mine expansion projects.
cost-effective, and which leads to improved recurring, and plans for enhancing overall Potential solutions have been explored, and workplace conditions and behaviour.
The safety management based on the lessons progress has been made during the recent objective originally set in 2009 of achieving learnt.
Senior managers are expected to months.
the best mining safety record in Ukraine is present these reports, in person, at the first supported by targets including a reduction Executive Committee meeting after the Mitigation: The resolution of the issue is of 20% in the lost-time injury frequency rate.
supported by strong activity at the local level For 2011 management set itself the task including continual meetings and dialogue of further reinforcing the safety culture at In accordance with Ukrainian compulsory with community representatives, pointing out Ferrexpo, through an increase in safety social insurance laws, compensation to them the benefits of relocation in terms of spending as a proportion of sales revenue, equivalent to up to five times annual salary improved accommodation and utilities and through the development of the safety training is payable to the victims of accidents or better access to transport infrastructure and programme, and through a continuing link their families in the case of fatalities.
Communities are paid a fair between safety performance and staff contribute to a statutory insurance fund which price for their land and compensation for remuneration safety KPIs now apply to all is responsible for paying the compensation.
As it is included in the approved staff down to middle management level.
FPM is aware that it has a moral as well as funding of the Capital Project, the topic is a legal responsibility towards the families of under constant review, including weekly employees affected by accidents at work meetings at site, and when necessary at and will also make additional voluntary monthly Executive Committee meetings.
payments to the family of employees on See also Community Resettlement a case-by-case basis to ensure that they under Highlights above.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 45 Organisational Responsibility Goals Training and Development In accordance with the legal requirements Ferrexpo is aware of the increasing demand The Group is committed to developing its of the jurisdictions within which Ferrexpo for staff with mining expertise in the CIS employees.
The Group provides technical operates, it has developed health and safety countries and elsewhere, and is constantly training for all employees consistent with their policies appropriate to its operations and looking for ways to motivate and retain its duties and responsibilities.
In particular, types of activity.
Compliance with these employees by involving an increasing number investment has been made in facilities for policies is monitored via a three-tiered of staff in its employee development health and safety training.
Training takes the system: daily control is conducted by programmes and by providing competitive form of basic and specialised training, operating personnel, engineers and compensation packages.
retraining and refresher training courses, both technicians: production managers carry internal and external.
In 2011, 152 employees out weekly inspections: senior management Ferrexpo also aims to combine employees and 3 high school graduates were sponsored conducts periodic inspections in conjunction local knowledge with modern technology so by Ferrexpo at institutes of higher education.
as to enhance the capacity and utilisation of Total educational spending for employees in its physical plant and equipment.
higher educational establishments was There is a centralised Directorate for Industrial UAH675 thousand US$85 thousand.
In 2011 Labour Safety and Environmental Protection Ferrexpo also intends to implement more a total of 6,611 employees received various taking the place of the previous more up-to-date HR systems.
forms of in-house and external training, at a localised structure: in this Directorate the cost of UAH4.5m US$565 thousand.
remuneration of safety engineers is no longer Performance directly linked to operational output thereby In 2011 56 staff were able to join the environment contributing to the maintenance of health and employee housing programme, which Policy safety standards.
Procedural manuals on enables selected employees to take out loans Operating practices and growth plans will labour safety and environmental protection for the purchase of accommodation in be implemented in a manner consistent at the operational level continue to be Komsomolsk, at a highly subsidised rate of with the principles underlying long-term developed.
interest and without the normal requirement in sustainable resource development: Ukraine of a substantial down payment.
This Ferrexpo will always bear in mind the Training plays an important part in Ferrexpos strategy long-term environmental consequences Staff are trained in Health and Safety for retaining key employees.
matters as part of their general technical All operating assets are required to training.
In 2011 safety training at the FPM Further information on employee numbers is develop and implement environmental Training Centre was provided to 4,717 set out in note 35 to the accounts.
management systems, in line with employees at all levels of the Group see Group policy.
Training and Development under Organisational Responsibility Trade All new capital projects will include Employees below.
Unions and Industrial Relations environmental risk assessments The Group does not have individual contracts according to IFC Environmental and employees with its employees in Ukraine other than with Social Performance Standards and Policy its senior managers.
Every year a Collective mitigation plans.
Ferrexpos employment principles include Labour Agreement is signed which states, policies and practices on company inter alia, that individual salaries will be Goals standards, security, recruitment, increased at least in line with inflation.
Maximise recovery of iron from ore, tailings, remuneration, equal opportunities and Management believes, having conducted and concentrate so as to ensure the best training and development.
These are backed market research, that wages paid by the use of Ferrexpos natural resource.
up by subsidiary company employment Group are higher than average wages in Minimise use of production consumables manuals to cover local legal and regulatory Ukraine.
There has been no major industrial such as water, electricity, natural gas, requirements.
action or labour dispute at Poltava since its diesel fuel, and explosives in order to privatisation in 1995. reduce demand for externally-sourced natural resources.
Use timely investment to sustain existing operations, and develop new projects so as to allow mineral resource to be converted into new iron ore reserves.
Utilise stripping materials topsoil, sand, clay, rock to support the creation of new plant and transport infrastructure.
Eliminate workplace waste through improved management systems, and utilise plant facilities to re-use scrap materials.
Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Monitor processes and employee Ongoing environmental management Community Context behaviour in order to minimise waste and activities in 2011 included the building of The Poltava region, in which Ferrexpos by-product contaminants and improve reservoirs for water conservation using mining operations are situated, is an area of the condition of plant and equipment.
mining overburden to build dams, further predominantly flat agricultural land close to Monitor dust and gas emissions and development of the closed water cycle for the River Dnieper, one of the largest European waste effluents in order to keep them production activities, and landscaping work.
river systems and an important transport below the permitted limits and reduce artery for Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.
Iron them further wherever possible.
Organisational responsibility ore mining in the area dates from the 19th Work with engineers and National Design Ferrexpo has a dedicated Environmental century, although the major expansion of Institutes to ensure that modernisation and Department the primary responsibility for mining activity occurred in the early 20th production growth plans include designs which is to ensure that all necessary permits century.
The town of Komsomolsk was and documentation that reduce their are in place, to undertake monitoring in established adjacent to the mine to support overall impact on the environment.
accordance with the prevailing regulatory the mining operation and ancillary industries Monitor new technologies that could assist requirements and to supervise the transport, power etc.. Ferrexpo is still by far in the re-processing of iron ore tailings.
implementation of an agreed programme the largest employer in the town, which has of environmental improvements based on a population of around 55,000 people, with Performance the Departments own assessments.
approximately 47% of the working population Monitoring the effectiveness of environmental of Komsomolsk being employed by the mine policy includes the review of key KPIs for communities in one capacity or another.
emissions which are shown below.
Policy Ferrexpos presence should benefit those Goals Emissions in Tonnes communities around its operations: Make operational leadership accessible operations will benefit if local communities to the various local citizen groups and 2009 2010 2011 are thriving.
organisations, so as to allow Ferrexpo to Ferrexpo strives to be recognised as an assess and prioritise their concerns about Total gas emissions 6,167 6,294 5,803 attractive local employer and a concerned its various initiatives.
Of which: Nitrogen dioxide 2,876 2,922 2,475 corporate citizen.
Provide expertise and voluntary services Carbon monoxide 2,306 2,336 2,345 Ferrexpo will assist in the development of in order to sustain and or improve Sulphur dioxide 886 937 887 the micro-economic environment within community infrastructure, supplying Total solid emissions 3,212 3,575 3,968 the communities in which it operates, so financial assistance where appropriate.
as to ensure that their dependence on us Participate in the development of modern Total emissions 9,379 9,869 9,771 for their livelihood is reduced.
cultural and social programmes and Ferrexpo aims to have a positive activities in the local area Ferrexpos In 2011, FPM spent UAH76m US$9.5m relationship with and enhance the employees and their families form the 2010: UAH46m US$5.8m on the communities around it: to hold an open majority of the local population.
implementation of environmental protection dialogue with those communities: and to Work consistently with local town and measures: this increase was due mainly to ensure that its involvement with them is village councils in order to understand their work on the tailings slurry storage area.
cost effective and relevant to their needs.
expectations of Ferrexpo, so that Ferrexpo Additionally, UAH69m US$8.7m 2010: can within reason provide value added UAH63m US$7.9m was spent on solutions or alternatives.
environmental monitoring and maintenance Give preference to suitably-qualified local activities.
Charges payable under emissions residents when hiring to fill vacancies.
regulations increased from UAH23m US$2.9m in 2010 to UAH32m US$4.0m in 2011, largely because of an increase in tariffs rather than in emissions.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual report and accounts 2011 47 case stuDy Performance Helogistics Community Initiatives The Group acquired the river transport FPM company Helogistics Holding GmbH FPM has been a significant investor in local Helogistics at the end of 2010.
Because community initiatives from the outset, of the different nature of its activities its CSR investing substantial funds in the social is reported on separately from that of the infrastructure of Komsomolsk and the Groups mining operations.
These funds have been strategy is to integrate Helogistics fully Community spent on charities, medical facilities, social into Ferrexpos CSR culture.
services, education, religion, culture and sporting activities, as well as on the a Health and Safety initiatives maintenance of certain of the citys social The accident rate at Helogistics during 2011 and cultural structures.
was 13 lost-time accidents, equating to a achieved LTFIR of 12.14 accidents per million man Links with the local community are hours and a total of 468 lost days, with no strengthened by meetings of senior work-related fatalities.
Accidents were mainly in 2011 management with heads of schools and due to injuries caused by slipping and falling colleges, supporting local celebration days, on wet or icy decks or by handling equipment giving vocational guidance and vacation work during frequent mooring operations.
to the students of local schools including Accidents are reported to and discussed providing financial sponsorship to individual at monthly meetings with the senior students whom FPM may subsequently management of the Group, and steps are under way to improve the safety culture.
employ and organising student excursions to FPM and its museum.
b Employees Helogistics provides training for staff so that Historically, FPM has employed a significant they can develop the knowledge, skills and number of people in providing support During 2011, FPM and FYM continued to values necessary for the performance of their services to the Groups mining activities.
In pursue the policy of fostering relationships roles.
many cases, these services could be made with the communities around the perimeter available on a commercial basis to other of the site.
At the village of Pryshyb this c Environmental enterprises within the local community which included: Helogistics complies with the applicable in turn improves the viability and sustainability environmental regulations of the countries Modernising the water supply: and of the local economy.
To encourage this along the Danube in which it operates for Repair and modernisation work at the process, FPM has offered financial and other example, regarding the prevention of fuel support to employees who provide these village school and kindergarten leakages and the grounding of barges.
in-house services so as to encourage them to transform internal departments into Work in Komsomolsk, the town where d Community stand-alone businesses.
FPM and FYM are based and where much As a transport company operating over a of the workforce lives, has concentrated wide area rather than concentrated in one FYM on initiatives designed to increase its place, Helogistics does not at present FYM strives to contribute to all spheres of the attractions as a place in which to live, and consider it appropriate to incur significant life of the local community, believing that a thus create favourable conditions for the expenditure on community initiatives.
healthy and flourishing community is of crucial development of the pool of labour on importance for sustainable growth in its which Ferrexpo relies: operations.
As a rapidly expanding company, Renovations and repairs to schools FYM has been able to provide significant and sports facilities, and hostel employment opportunities for local people accommodation for families: and aims to have good relationships with the Job placements with FPM under the communities near its operations.
My First Job scheme for 118 graduates of the local technical schools: and Purchase of advanced equipment for local hospitals
