Sustainable Development Report Advancing our sustainable development Overview The Fresnillo plc business model is dependent upon solid sustainable development practices.
We believe that the sole way to secure a thriving and successful business is to safeguard the life and wellbeing of its stakeholders.
Given the high social and environmental impact of the mining sector at the local level, we strive to earn and maintain our social licence to operate with responsible stewardship of Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR.
We also believe that a commitment to operational efficiency and improved performance in areas such as unit consumption of energy and water, recycling and waste management will benefit our own productivity and reputation, as well as the development of Mexico.
We are proud of our track record as a socially and environmentally responsible company and deeply value our relationships with all ourstakeholders.
Thus I am profoundly saddened by our safety performance in 2011.
We lost 11 men, two employees and nine contractors, whom we also honour for their roles as husbands andfathers and friends in the communities where we operate.
Thisperformance signalled insufficient compliance with our safety systems and procedures and we responded immediately, as per the Safety Action Plan described herein, recognising that strengthening Jaime Lomeln our precious metals position requires strengthening every component Chief Executive officer of our business model.
Following an assessment by  PwC of A core pillar of our strategy is strengthening ourHSECR system we prepared a 20122016 Action Plan to ensure the Groups sustainability framework: I am that gaps are closed and we achieve a fully integrated and effective personally committed to our performance corporate responsibility programme.
This is part of a change in our approach to sustainability that looks at systems, processes and data inthis area.
We have a long-term goal to strengthen the way in which we operate, working closely with our employees, contractors, governments and communities to create real solutions and make real contributions to the places where we operate.
This report summarises our programmes and performance and corresponds to our third Communication on Progress as signatory of the United Nations Global Compact.
We invite you to visit our website to learn more about our integrated sustainability initiatives.
62 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 Sustainability strategy at a glance Area of focus Objectives KPIs Targets Health Risk: Impact of our operations Control occupational illnesses Disabling occupational Continuous improvement onthe health of employees and improve general health diseaserate andcontractors through preventive care Lost work days rate forgeneraldiseases Opportunity: Promotion of healthier lifestyles in the locations we impact Safety Risk: Impact of our operations Zero fatalities and lost time Fatalities Zero fatalities onthe physical integrity of accidents through the Accident rate Accident rate under 2.0 employees and contractors elimination of dangerous Lost work days rate Lost work days rate under 1.0 workplace conditions Opportunity: Promotion of Lost work days rate andbehaviours behavioural change towards forworkaccidents ashared culture of safety Environment Limit environmental impact Unit consumption of energy Zero environmental incidents Risk: Impact of our operations onthe environment at the local of all operations control dust Unit consumption of water Further improvement in water and global level emissions, manage tailings and energy unit consumption Unit GHG emissions ponds and cyanide throughout Opportunity: Promotion of Environmental incidents the life of a mine: comply with behavioural change towards a national regulatory requirements shared culture of environmental and international best practices awareness and conservation: operational efficiencies and improved practices Community relations Risk: Negative perception of Human resources: Provide Training Turnover rate under 5.0 ourbusiness from surrounding professional development Turnover rate Zero days lost for labour communities: long-term opportunities and workplace conicts Employee satisfaction survey dependency on our operations satisfaction for our personnel Continuous improvement in L abour relations Opportunity: Promotion of Communities: Enhance the community perception index Community perception index localdevelopment through perception of Fresnillo plc as a employment opportunities responsible mining company andsocial projects Develop self-sustaining communities 63 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development The HSECR framework The HSECR consolidation progress The Groups sustainability efforts are managed through its HSECR To close the gaps and advance towards a fully optimised system System.
See the Corporate Governance Report page 109 inline with the recommendations of the  evaluation, in2012 we intend to: The Board approved a comprehensive Sustainability Strategy in July2011 that outlined objectives and performance indicators for Strategy thefour areas of focus: health, safety, environment and community Communicate the Policy on Sustainable Development at all levels relations.
This strategy is aligned with the overall corporate strategy of the organisation and includes similar management processes of materiality, risk assessment and controls.
See Our Risk Management Framework Fully align HSECR objectives to other processes such as pages 3643 Enterprise Risk Management and anti-bribery programmes Identify areas of the system where more integration is needed Our aim is to fully integrate the HSECR System across the entire organisation, including contractors: embed HSECR as part of our stakeholder culture: and ensure that our HSECR systems remain Structure proactive and forward-looking.
define the organisational structure regarding HSECR aspects define the stakeholder engagement process In 2011  carried out an external vericationof our HSECR System.
Based on their recommendations, we developed a 20122016 Action Plan to advance our vision of Processes transformation and integration in this area.
define forward-looking indicators Establish an internal verication system The assessment determined that our system has reached its midpoint of consolidation, and included the following key recommendations: People define responsibilities and roles in the organisation Continue promoting the integration of the HSECR System Ensure that a sustainability culture permeates all levels and all define HSECR metrics mine units and projects Technology Involve and sensitise contractors in all HSECR elements Establish reporting processes Integrate community relations aspects to the System Formalise documentation processes and systems Ensure that everyone in the Group shares a vision of the HSECR System as a holistic system and not a set of disparate activities Formalise accounting processes for HSECR investments The HSECR consolidation progress Immature Emergent Dened Managed Optimised Strategy 48% Structure 45% Processes 88% People 59% Technology 43% 64 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 our community standing and provides an opportunity to share and Memberships, partnerships and awards learn best practices as well as common frameworks for reporting.
The global image of the mining sector still suffers from negative perceptions, although the industry has made enormous strides in Our HSECR system and framework is aligned with the becoming a modern, ethical and responsible participant in the recommendations of organizations such as the United Nations global economy.
Participation in international and domestic industry Global Compact UNGC, Global Reporting Initiative GRI, groups and organisations that share this vision of the industry, and International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, Organization alliances with NGOs and public sector organisations helps maintain forEconomic Cooperation and Development OECD and International Finance Corporation IFC.
Relationship type Name Our role and progress in 2011 STPS Mexican Secretariat Participant in the Safety Self-Management Programme.
Certication ofLabour Theprogramme aims to ensure compliance with safety regulations process and improve performance.
PROFEPA Mexican Participant in the Clean Industry Programme, aimed at ensuring  compliance with environmental regulations and improving performance.
International Cyanide Participant in the Cyanide Management Programme aimed ManagementInstitute atimplementing best practices in cyanide management.
ISO 14001 All mine units except for Saucito and the Exploration Division have current certications for their environmental management systems.
OHSAS 18001 Mine units are pursuing the certication for their health and safety management systems.
The Chamber promotes sector agreements, Membership MiningChamber lobbying processes and benchmarks.
See Our Risk Management orparticipation Framework page 43.
Fresnillo plcs VP of Operations, Mr Manuel Luvanos, is currently President of the Chamber.
CESPEDES Sustainable Active member of the Executive Committee.
The Commission aims Development Studies Commission, to coordinate the Mexican private sector stance on relevant issues Private Coordinator Council, CCE such as a transition towards a green economy and Greenhouse Gases mitigation efforts in the country United Nations Global Compact Subscriber to the 10 Principles: the current report represents ourthird Communication on Progress CoP.
INIFAP National Institute Partnership for reforestation and research at Cinega andFresnillo.
Partnership forForestry, Agriculture or project andLivestockResearch The Carbon Disclosure Project Participant in the FTSE 350 category for the second time through disclosure on climate change risks and mitigation efforts.
WildCorp Alliance with The Wild Foundation aimed at promoting biodiversity Awards conservation in the Mexican private sector.
SEMARNAT Mexican Secretariat Participant in the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme, ofthe Environment apublic-private partnership with CESPEDES.
CEDES Ecology and Sustainable Partnership to implement the Sonoran Pronghorn Protection Development Commission of Programme Sonora State CONCAMIN Confederation Representation through CAMIMEX for benchmarks and best ofIndustrial Chambers practices in the Mexican industrial sector.
Recipient of the Ethics andValues Award for the third time CEMEFI Mexican Centre Largest organization in Mexico for corporate social responsibility.
forPhilanthropy Recipient of the Socially Responsible Company ESR Award since2008.
IPADE Business School andGESOC Ranked #6 out of 93 companies in a benchmark of the most Gestin Social yCooperacin transparent companies in reporting sustainability in Mexico 65 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development Health Objective How we do it Control occupational illnesses and improve By providing preventive care and education, general health through preventive care aswell as ongoing health care services What we said we would do in 2011 What we did in 2011 Implement preventive medicine efforts aimed at reducing Reinforce health programmes through better medical generalillnesses, and create health teams in the mine units infrastructure, specialists and measurement systems What we plan to do in 2012 Implement forward-looking indicators concerning occupational health risks: enforce health guidelines for contractors and implementation of medical units for contractor companies withmore than 100 workers Performance indicator 2011 2010 2009 Comment Rate of permanent disability 0.83 Indicator added in 2011 due to occupational illness Percentage of workers permanently disabled as qualied bythe Mexican Social Security Institute IMSS, divided bythetotal number of workers, multiplied by 100.
Rate of lost work days 10.68 Indicator added in 2011 due to other illnesses Number of days lost due to non-occupational diseases, divided by the total number of workers, multiplied by 100.
Investment in health US$7.8 US$6.6 Indicator added in 2010 million million Expenditures in infrastructure, programmes and payments to the Mexican Social Security Institute IMSS : training notincluded 66 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 In 2011 we conducted approximately 3,000 diagnostic health tests Programme highlights and exams.
The Fresnillo and Saucito mines implemented a Employee retention, productivity and satisfaction require good Comprehensive Preventive Health Activities Programme, the health.
We provide a range of medical services for union and Occupational Health Unit initiated operations at Saucito, and at non-union employees and contractors, including annual Herradura we extended a preventive health programme to examinations, routine vaccinations, health seminars, and contractors.
At Cinega medical specialists visit the mine every comprehensive medical care for those in need.
This enables twomonths so that workers do not need to travel.
usto monitor occupational illnesses, implement prevention programmes and reduce common conditions such as diabetes, We began to incorporate medical guideline requirements for hypertension and obesity.
contractors with 100 or more workers that specify the need forhealthcare facilities and medical professionals onsite.
The main occupational illnesses in our industry have historically been lung disease, hearing loss and elevated blood lead levels, aswell as heat stress and spinal injuries.
Training is provided on the use of preventive equipment and workplace hygiene requirements.
Our greater health concern comes from chronic and degenerative diseases related to limited awareness of and access to preventive medicine in Mexico.
Through collaboration with local and national public health entities, we execute ongoing awareness campaigns onnutrition, hygiene and family planning: vaccination campaigns: and infectious disease prevention.
Improving health at Fresnillo and Saucito Comprehensive Preventive Health Activities Programme To combat chronic diseases and promote better health among workers, the Fresnillo and Saucito mine units implemented the Comprehensive Preventive Activities Programme in 2011 with initiatives such as vaccination, fide-parasitisation, disease screening and monitoring, reproductive health, dental care and nutrition.
Thecampaign benefited almost 5,200 unionised workers, contractors and their immediate families.
We also scaled up the programme to a broader health campaign foreducational institutions in collaboration with federal and local public agencies including the Mexican Social Security Institute IMSS, the Mexican Secretariat of Health SSA, the Fresnillo municipality, Don Napolen Gmez Sada trade union and Gilberto, A. C. an NGO.
More than 2,000 students from surrounding schools took part, andwe are committed to sustaining this programme over time.
Thank you very much for being interested in me and my family: I had breast cancer detected and access to social security was much easier.
Virginia Ibarra Arguelles, the mother of a Fresnillo plc employee, 30 November 2011 67 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development Safety Objective How we do it Zero fatalities and lost time accidents through the By reinforcing safety policies and procedures, elimination of dangerous workplace conditions investing in safety equipment and training, and and behaviours conducting drills to reinforce safety behaviour What we said we would do in 2011 What we did in 2011 Zero fatal accidents and a 20.0% improvement in other safety Following 11 fatal accidents we implemented a comprehensive indices: OHSAS certication at Fresnillo and 50.0% progress at Safety Action Plan that includes supplemental training, other operating mines: first level of the Safe Enterprise Certicate enforcement of rules regarding violation of our Zero Tolerance at all operating mines policy, and operational improvements in the mine works What we plan to do in 2012 Continue implementing the Safety Action Plan to improve, enhance and embed our safety culture and systems at all levels, with full compliance with our Zero Tolerance Rules for Safety Complete the pending OHSAS 18001 certication process atFresnillo: 90% advance at Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos: 80%advance at Cinega: initiate process at Saucito Achieve Second Level of the Safety Self-Management Programme for Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos and First Level at all other mine units: register Noche Buena to the programme Performance indicator 2011 2010 2009 Comment Fatalities 11 2 0 Unacceptable performance led to immediate action being taken.
See Special Report on Safety page 69 Accident rate 1.73 2.21 3.10 Decrease reects benefit of additional safety training and Number of disabling accidents that require absence lower frequency of disabling from work for more than three days, divided by the total accidents number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors, multiplied by 100.
Lost work days rate 3.11 1.64 1.20 Increase reects higher severity of disabling accidents, The number of days lost due to disabling accidents divided as 1 fatality 1,000 lost days by the total number of union and non-union employees, aswell as contractors.
Lost work days rate for work accidents 2.45 Indicator added in 2011 Number of days lost due to work accidents, divided by thetotal number of workers, multiplied by 100.
Investment in safety US$5.2 US$4.3 Indicator added in 2010 million million The amount reects investment in infrastructure andinitiatives training is not included.
68 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 Special report on safety Programme highlights The most critical issue the Company faced in 2011 was safety, with The key challenge we face is a culture of disregard of safety 11 fatal accidents.
We launched an aggressive Safety Action Plan procedures, specically among new workers hired or contracted inresponse, including changes to mine plans and drilling methods.
tosupport the expansion of our operations.
To mitigate this risk, While certain actions resulted in adjustments to the production weare implementing a comprehensive training and awareness prole this year, they also represent a fundamental investment planto embed a culture of safety and a zero tolerance attitude for inthe employees and contractors of Fresnillo plc.
violations of our policies and procedures.
This year families were invited to participate in discussions on the dangers their loved ones The Plan was based on the recommendations and feedback faced in disregarding safety procedures, which served to elevate fromthe following audits, assessments and inspections: theissue and increase accountability at home.
Our own internal Safety Team We comply with all government and industry safety regulations.
B. fide C. V Safety and Environment team Safety training in 2011 comprised 42.7% of total training hours, with External safety expert from Chile particular emphasis on Leadership in Safety and the zero tolerance Rock mechanics specialist from Canada attitude for safety.
Strict enforcement of non-compliance with our Mexican Secretariat of Labour STPS safety rules includes dismissal of our employees and termination ofthird party contracts.
The resulting measures undertaken included: Strict enforcement of compliance with Group safety policies The Group also subscribes to a number of national and international andprocedures, which if violated could lead to dismissal safety certication programmes, including: Additional training to embed the Zero Tolerance attitude OHSAS 18001 certication andtoimprove behavioural processes Fresnillo advanced 80%: Cinega 50%: Herradura and SoledadThe addition of a Safety Corporate Manager who reports Dipolos 40%.
totheVP of Operations, and a Safety Assistant Manager forDevelopment Projects Safety Self-Management Programme Mexican Implementation of Health, Safety and Environmental Guidelines Secretariat of Labour for all contractors Soledad-Dipolos recognised with the First Level out of three : Opening of a safety hotline dedicated to reporting safety incidents Herradura received the same recognition, although a fatality Operational measures such as immediate backlling in long hole intheCentauro Deep project put the mine on stand-by: stopes: increased shotcreting and systematic rock bolting at all Fresnilloand Cinega on stand-by for First Level after fatalities.
mining works: auxiliary illumination: remote control mucking TM Key training programmes include Operational Discipline, STOP scoops: improved ventilation in development areas: and TM andTAKE TWO... for Safety.
We also provide specialised training mechanised scaling inhazardous materials management, defensive driving and first aid, among others.
Process for Behavioural Change An institutional programme for a culture of safety We know that accidents are not caused by unsafe conditions or lack of training alone, but often from unsafe attitudes and behaviours.
One of our key priorities is to promote a culture of safety.
We have collaborated for over five years with an organisation calledIntegral Health Advisors in a programme called Process for TM Behavioural Change PCC that seeks to achieve comprehensive behavioural change in each worker... making conscious what usually remains unconscious.
The programme includes a workshop facilitated by psychologists where skills such as trust, self-esteem, listening, empathy, teamwork, assertiveness, communication, conict resolution and work performance are addressed.
Theworkshop also increases awareness by exercising participants different emotions.
TM PCC was brought to Cinega in 2008 and extended to Herradura The workshop made me more conscious about my actions so I the following year, and in 2011 it was introduced at Fresnillo.
couldstop myself in my path and modify inappropriate conduct.
Atotalof2,181 workers in 124 groups have participated to date.
JorgeRosales, beneficiation Plant Supervisor, Fresnillo, 26 August 2011 69 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development Environment Objective How we do it Limit the environmental impact of all operations By monitoring and minimising the use of nonand throughout the life of a mine: comply with renewable resources, maintaining strict oversight national regulatory requirements and and maintenance of preventive equipment and international best practices systems, and investing in conservation efforts What we said we would do in 2011 What we did in 2011 Maintain all existing certications: advance the Cyanide Code Maintained all certications: two contractor companies achieved Certication process and coach contractor companies the Environmental Compliance Certication: Herradura obtained forparticipation in Environmental Compliance Certication Cyanide Certication process for PROFEPA What we plan to do in 2012 Maintain zero environmental incidents Secure environmental permit for the expansion of tailings dams atSaucito and Cinega Obtain Clean Industry certication and begin the ISO 14001 process at Saucito Obtain International Cyanide Management Code certication atCinega and Soledad-Dipolos Register Noche Buena for the relevant environmental certicationprocesses Performance indicator 2011 2010 2009 Comment Unit energy consumption 0.138 0.124 0.188 Expansion of the Companys operations Soledad-Dipolos, Gigajoules per tonne of product Saucito and Noche Buena Unit fresh water consumption 0.101 0.095 0.209 See above Cubic metres per tonne of product Unit greenhouse gas emission 0.013 0.011 0.017 See above CO2e tonnes per tonne of product Lost days by an environmental incident Environmental incidents refer to tailings dam leakages, Total number of days in which operations were cyanide contamination, compromised due to environmental incidents reswithin mines and facilities, and spillage of hazardous materials.
Investment in environmental efforts US$3.0 US$2.6 Indicator added in 2010 million million Infrastructure, equipment and programmes excludingtraining 70 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 Programme highlights Waste management The Groups environmental management systems extend from 49.3% of reusable material was either used as input for theexploration phase, to mine development, construction and otherprocesses or sold to third parties as raw materials.
operation, to closure and restoration.
Our primary challenges  litres of spent lube oil and arisefrom intensive consumption of strategic resources such theGroupsolda total of 294,241 litres to third parties.
asenergy and water and the potential impact our operations haveon local ecosystems.
Biodiversity 162,650 trees planted and donated 2010: 118,000 trees : all mines The Group registered no significant environmental incidents and advanced projects have nurseries, with combined capacity ornesin 2011.
The results of periodic tests for dust emission, of140,200 plants 2010: 186,000 : 235 more hectares ofland noise, illumination, ventilation, tailings dam management and werereforested in Cinega, for 735 hectares in total: 57hectares vibration confirmed compliance with all national regulations.
ofland were rehabilitated at Herradura through oraand fauna Totalinvestment in environmental efforts was US$3.0 million relocation, for 421 hectares in total.
in2011, including infrastructure, equipment and programmes.
Thelargest expenditures were environmental infrastructure The Group subscribes to a number of national and international maintenance, reforestation and ora relocation efforts, environmental certication programmes, including: andenvironmental permits.
ISO 14001 certication The five key areas where we measure environmental impact Fresnillo, Cinega, Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos, Exploration Division andinvest in controls are as follows: Clean Industry certication Mexican Environmental Authority, PROFEPA Water Fresnillo, Cinega, Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos 3 3 3.47 million m of fresh water consumed 2010: 2.8 million m duetothe Companys expansion projects.
Water efficiency International Cyanide Management Code projectsgenerated savings of 266,426 m3.
Fresnillo and Saucito voluntary gold mining industry programme maintained zero consumption of fresh water.
Herradura certied in May: process delayed at Cinega due tocapacity expansion but expected to conclude in 2012: Soledad-Dipolos now a signatory with process underway Energy 5.0 million GJ of energy consumed 72.5% diesel, 25.5% electricity, 1.8% gasoline, 0.3% LP gas 2010: 3.7 million GJ : efficiency projects generated savings of 9,100 GJ.
Greenhouse gas emissions All emissions comply with regulatory limits.
282,936 tonnes of CO2 emitted from direct sources, 176,345 tonnes from indirect 2010:205,539 tonnes direct, 126,788 tonnes indirect.
Extended ecosystem restoration Expansion in the Herradura district A core aspect of our mine development and expansion work isenvironmental impact analysis.
The Herradura mine was commissioned in 1997 and has since undergone expansion andsupported regional growth with the development of the Soledad-Dipolos mine and Noche Buena project.
Operating in parallel with this growth was the Flora and Fauna Rescue and Relocation Programme, which concluded its work in March 2011 after more than three years.
A total of 231,628 plants and 450 reptiles and mammals were relocated, and more than 400 hectares rehabilitated to serve as habitat for endangered species such as the Sonoran Pronghorn.
Theresults of the programme were highly satisfactory with a general survival rate for relocated plants of more than 90%.
Infact, part of the environmental land use permits granted us fortheNoche Buena project by the Mexican Environmental Secretariat SEMARNAT included the donation and transport of600specimens to a public conservation park in central Mexico, which was coordinated by a local NGO.
71 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development Community Relations Objective How we do it Provide development opportunities and workplace By providing professional development satisfaction for our personnel: enhance communities opportunities and workplace satisfaction for perception of Fresnillo plc as a responsible mining our personnel and maintaining sound relations company, and promote their self-sustainment with the communities where we operate What we said we would do in 2011 What we did in 2011 Expand the family visit programme, enhance communications We reinforced our social programmes, scheduled regular visits and complete an impact analysis of our community investments byemployee families and communities and reinforced communications strategy at our mine units What we plan to do in 2012 Conduct the biannual employee satisfaction survey Conduct the biannual community perception survey Launch the Community Relations Scorecard as a tool tomeasurethe social impact of our activities Performance indicator 2011 2010 2009 Comment Human resources Professional development training 96 95 92 Leadership, teamwork, process improvement, Average hours person productivity and management skills HSECR training 41 27 23 Primary focus on safety: substantial increase due to Average hours person the implementation of the Process of Behavioural Change programme: continued module on Sustainable Development forunionised workers Investment in training programmes US$1.7 US$1.2 Indicator added in 2010 million million Turnover rate 5.69 4.61 5.56 Reects the launch of construction at Noche Number of union and non-union employees who left the Buena: new projects Company divided by the total number of employees normally involve large-scale hiring and thus an increase inturnover Employee satisfaction survey N A 6.8 4.
9 Conducted every two years 2008 by independent third party Survey of union and non-union workers and contractors Labour relations 0 0 0 All collective and contract negotiations were Total number of days in which operations were successfully conducted compromised due to disagreements with local unions and or contract negotiations 72 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 Human resources programme highlights 2011 workforce overview Selection, recruitment, retention and professional development Total: 3,051 employees 2010: 2,449 : 2,252 contractors 2010: arematerial issues for the Group, and the wellbeing of our people 1,972 : of employees 80.4% are unionised directly correlates to the sound performance of the Company.
Gender: 90.7% men, 9.3% women while the physical nature of Ourhuman resources programme positions quality of life for our mining correlates to the gender breakdown, notably 60% of new personnel and their families as a competitive differentiator.
hires at Herradura and Saucito in 2011 were women, as are 10.4% of all supervisors and managers Human rights are a fundamental principle for us, and along with full compliance with human rights regulations, our Code of Conduct Age: 21% 1825: 62% 2645: 17% 46 requires gender equality, respect for freedom of thought and Tenure: 57% 05 years: 15% 610 years: 28% 11 years association, and prohibition of slavery, child labour and Executives: 2.4% at management level discrimination of customs and cultures.
Any violations of these Engineer Training Programme: 36 interns principles can be anonymously reported at all levels through thewhistleblower programme Fresnillo Plays Fair.
Value Creation Programme: 21 work teams whose innovation projects were recognised, 13 of which were comprised entirely We maintain fair labour agreements and offer competitive wages ofunionised workers and benets for our union and non-union workers.
A 6.5% increase in wages plus a 1.5% increase in fringe benets was approved in 2011, the highest of all sectors in Mexico.
In geographically isolated mines sites we provide basic services such as housing, medical services, education and transportation.
Contractors are considered strategic partners and we continue to integrate them into our systems and culture through specialised training.
To support the growth and safety of our operations, we hired 617 new employees and 455 new contractors in 2011.
Total wages and salaries were US$25.1 million, excluding employee profit sharing, a 21.3% increase from the previous year.
We continued to partner with a number of technical and academic institutions to train and develop the next generation of earth science and engineering graduates.
The promotion of earth sciences The Technical Studies Centre at Fresnillo CETEF As part of our effort to develop personnel and support the expansion of the mining sector through academic alliances, weinaugurated theFresnillo Technical Studies Centre in September2011 with a first cohort of 22 students specialising intheoperation of technical mining equipment.
Most students arefamily members of employees from our mine unit.
Theeducational plan includes a dual system that incorporates 80%of empirical training done in the Companys facilities and 20% of theoretical knowledge.
Student housing was alsoinaugurated, with facilities such as a recreational yard and dining and TV rooms.
The inauguration of CETEF by Fresnillo is an excellent self-development opportunity for our students.
Saul Herrera, Trainer, Fresnillo, 14 February 2012 73 Sustainable Development Report continued Advancing our sustainable development Community relations continued Community programme highlights Efforts are divided into five pillars of action We see communities as our strategic partners because they supply Environmental awareness vital services and a local labour force.
We are committed to free, E ducation prior and informed consent, fair and open negotiations, respect Health and social welfare forlocal customs and culture and cooperative landowner groups Self-sustaining capacity ejidos, and support for a culture of long-term economic and environmental self-sustainability.
I nfrastructure Outreach efforts and baseline studies begin at the exploration phase, and agreements with landowners often include guaranteed investments in basic infrastructure such as roads and water.
Wewelcome visitors as part of our culture of engagement andtransparency regarding safety and environmental practices.
Each mine unit implements its own community engagement programme based on our Institutional Agenda for Community Relations and the specic social and environmental context ofeachbusiness unit.
See Our Mines in Operation pages 4857 forsegment information.
The power of partnerships Local development at Cinega Cinega is located in the middle of the Durango sierra, far from any major urban centre.
As a result of this geographic isolation we have invested in basic social services such as drainage, electrication and paving.
However, the risk of creating undue dependency on the Company, and our mission to foster self-sustaining communities, led to a strategy of investing in infrastructure projects through trilateral partnerships with government agencies and local organisations.
Two such projects were inaugurated in 2011: a high school built in partnership with the College of scientific and Technologic Studies forthe State of Durango CECyTED, and the paving of the main road in partnership with the municipal and federal government through anational programme sponsored by the Mexican Secretariat ofSocial Development.
Those who have seen the growth and sustained development atCinega fide Nuestra Seora since the foundation of the mining company, are loyal witnesses of the improvement in the quality of life.
Carlos Gandarilla, Contractor, Cinega, 5 October 2011 74 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Performance 1 2 3 4 Performance indicator 2011 2010 2009 Comment Communities Community perception index N A 86 85 Conducted every two years 2008 by independent third party: Average perception of four components labour, most recent score is highest environmental, institutional and social from three different possible ranking with sources household surveys, anthropological observations verypositive and personal interviews Total investment in community wellbeing US$8.7 US$6.
1 Indicator added in 2010 million million includes the five pillars of action Communication on Progress Chart United Nations Global Compact Section in the Report Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, 2425, 38, 40, 1. within their inuence scope.
42, 7275 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
7275, 107 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 3. tocollective bargaining.
24, 42, 7275 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.
7275 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.
7275 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment andoccupation.
7, 2425, 7275, 96 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
2122, 3233 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.
65, 7071 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendlytechnologies.
23, 7071 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
