Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Corporate Social Responsibility G4S plays an important role in society.
We make a difference by helping people to operate in safe and secure environments where they can thrive and prosper and we believe this role can only grow in importance.
CSR performance in 2011 Why CSR matters to G4S There are very few businesses in the world which have as wide a geographic Strategic developments footprint, scale and diversity of workforce as that of G4S, nor a core service which touches the lives of millions of people.
These unique characteristics u CSR Committee became full board committee with extended mean that CSR has to be a core part of our strategy.
non-executive director participation We operate in some countries where the political and social environment is u Carried out CSR materiality exercise to confirm key CSR priorities forthegroup challenging and we need to make sure that we are operating in line with our own group values and standards to ensure the integrity of organisation, the u Submitted first Communication on Progress in relation to safety of our employees and customers and the sustainability of our business.
UNGlobalCompact CSR issues are also featuring more often in bids for new contracts and are u Commenced a significant human rights project to determine key human rights issues and develop detailed policies and guidelines for forming a significant proportion of the criteria by which a bid submission implementation in 2012 orproposal is assessed.
Companies which ignore this evolving trend do soattheir peril.
u Continued to drive the development of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers Our CSR strategy Safeguarding our integrity In 2011, we carried out a CSR materiality exercise, assessing the views of our u Developed communications and training materials targeting 20,000 senior managers and external stakeholders to understand where G4S should employees to ensure compliance with our business ethics standards focus its CSR strategy and resources.
As a result of the exercise, G4S has andthe UK Bribery Act focused on integrity, people, environment and communities as u Performed 150 internal audits 50% more than in 2008 coreCSR areas and within these, business ethics and anti-corruption, u Launched Safe 2 Say global whistle-blowing hotline service resulting human rights, employee engagement and health and safety as in30% increase in the issues logged priorities.
While our CSR strategy contains a much broader range of subject areas, these issues will be the priority for development during 2012. u Developed a Supplier Code of Conduct for the group Securing our people u Reduced attack-related fatalities from 30 to 28 u Conducted 11 health and safety Critical Country Reviews u Significantly increased response rate to our global employee survey by30% to 245,000 employees u Improved overall employee engagement levels from 76% in 2009 to81%in2011 of respondents to global employment survey Securing our environment u Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 5.1% u Introduced measurement of waste and water consumption into the Climate Action Programme u Introduced a Green Building minimum standard for new-build or long lease facilities Securing our communities u Conducted review of G4S community investment, identifying programmes with a combined value of over 2.1m u Facilitated over 78,500 hours of employee volunteering with charitable concerns and local community good causes G4S plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have made great strides forward in our CSR management CSRstrategy and approach in recent years.
In2011, In 2011, our CSR Committee became a full board committee having we tackled some complex issues such as reviewing previously been a sub-committee to Audit, comprising a number of experienced non-executive directors this change reflects the increasing our approach to human rights and making sure value we place on CSR and on our reputation.
The committee is chaired the business was ready for the impactof the byMark Elliott, a G4S plc non-executive director with extensive experience Bribery Act.
Personally, in recent years I have of CSR from his 40 years in international business with global organisations such as IBM.
Elements of our CSR strategy are a regular subject for discussion seen CSR move from a project withinthe group at group executive and board meetings.
to a core element of the group strategy and Iam very proudthat discussions onCSR-related G4S plc topicsfeature regularly in our board room.
board Mark Elliott Non-executive director and chairman of the CSR Committee Nomination Audit CSR Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Safeguarding Securing our integrity our people Securing our Securing our environment communities Engaging stakeholders Duties of the CSR Committee include: We continue to improve our communication and engagement with key u Review, agree and establish the companys CSR strategy to ensure that it stakeholder groups to ensure that our strategy is aligned to their needs and remains an integral part of the groups overall strategy that, as our CSR programmes develop, we seek input and advice from those u Develop and recommend for acceptance by the board, policies on all around us.
In 2011 we: aspects of CSR u Conducted our second global employee survey, receiving responses u Receive reports and review activities from executives and specialist groups from 245,000 employees in 160 businesses.
We believe that employee managing CSR matters engagement is a critical driver of business success, helping us improve u Monitor compliance with the CSR policies and review performance employee stability and increase our employees motivation to deliver against targets excellent service to our customers, leading in turn to sustainable businessperformance u Review the integration of CSR processes with risk management programmes and reputation management priorities u Continued our involvement in the development and launch of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers, which sets u Develop and encourage effective two-way communication concerning out principles for security operations in so-called complex environments CSR issues u Engaged with Malachite, an independent human rights consultancy to u Ensure CSR-related issues are considered during acquisition due diligence carry out a human rights risk assessment based on the countries in which u Review best practice and benchmark where appropriate we operate and the services we provide u Continued to seek customer feedback through account management, operational reviews and customer surveys G4S plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Corporate Social Responsibility continued Safeguarding our integrity Number of internal control audits 150 Why it matters 141 Integrity is one of the groups core values being a responsible business 116 partner, employer, customer and supplier is an important part of our strategy 102 and forms an essential foundation on which we carry out our business.
What were doing Business ethics 2008 2009 2010 2011 To ensure that our employees understand how they can play their part in delivering high ethical standards across the group, we continue to enforce Priorities for 2012 agroup-wide Ethics Code that sets out how we expect our employees to u Maintain audit coverage at 2011 level behave in order to live our value of Integrity.
The code is supplemented u Enhance monitoring and reporting on Financial Reviews completed by with a Business Ethics Policy which provides a more detailed summary of the Regional finance staff covering all business entities world-wide groups ethical standards of operation.
The code and policy are reviewed each year, incorporating evolving legislation and evaluating any risks to the u Further promote new global whistle-blowing hotline service and manage groups integrity.
To ensure compliance with the code and policies we also potential significant increase in volume of calls ask businesses, as part of the G4S risk assessment process, to assess their u Improvements in investigation and handling of issues raised.
business ethics risks and compliance with the ethics policy.
u Bedding in of anti-bribery controls u Programme of anti-bribery audits Anti-bribery u Review of results of anti-bribery risk assessments and implement To comply with the requirements of the Bribery Act which became effective improvement actions from 1 July 2011, we embarked on an extensive programme of reviewing ourpolicies and procedures and introducing new policies where we felt theyneeded to be strengthened to comply with the adequate procedures Human rights required by the Act.
In 2010 and 2011 we faced increasing criticism regarding the provision of This programme included a global awareness campaign to ensure all services to customers in the West Bank area through contracts which we managers and employees understand the implications of the Act and hadinherited through an earlier acquisition.
This issue prompted us to ourexpectations in relation to their behaviour: training materials and consider our position on human rights and to undertake a broad project methodology in 25 languages specifically on business ethics and tasked with creating a clear human rights policy.
Our review mapped the anti-corruption: and the launch of a 24 hour global, multi-language, whistlehuman rights landscape, analysed G4S operations to determine human blowing hotline service called Safe2 Say to ensure that all employees rightsrisks and challenges and developed a human rights policy.
havea simple means of reporting non-compliance with group policies As a result of the project, we have recently drafted a new human rights orinappropriate behaviour.
policyand are currently seeking feedback from internal and external stakeholders on its content.
Once the policy is agreed, we will implement How were performing itacross the group and will develop operational guidelines to support its implementation.
u 20,000 employees targeted with business ethics and Bribery Act training u 150 on-site internal audits and reviews 50% more than in 2008 We have also recently upgraded our CSR checklist process for evaluating new country entries, acquisitions and major contract bids to improve the u 4.9 issues raised per on-site audit compared to 5.3 issues in 2010 human rights elements of the process based on a variety of external sources u 30% increase in issues logged following launch of whistle-blowing hotline of human rights data.
Safe2Say G4S plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information How were performing Securing our people u 7% reduction in the number of fatalities related to attacks on our employees by third parties reducing from 30 to 28 Why it matters u Work-related fatalities increased from 59 to 76.
This increase was due As a service provider, our customers rely on us to have a motivated and mainly to the high number of road traffic fatalities which rose from 14 in healthy workforce.
Keeping our employees safe, looking after their interests 2010 to 30 in 2011.
Providing ideas and sharing internal best practices on and treating them fairly is therefore vital to our ongoing success.
road safety will be a major focus for 2012 u Conducted 11 health and safety Critical Country Reviews What were doing u Incidents in which there were multiple fatalities rose from one in 2010 to five in 2011 due to a number of tragic events including a helicopter crash in Health and Safety Papua New Guinea and an insurgent attack on the British Council in Kabul In 2011, we began implementing the new health and safety standards and benchmarks which had been developed during the previous year.
The new Fatalities by category standards covered areas such as training, communication, reporting, risk assessments, KPIs and formal reviews.
Good progress has been made during 76 the year in embedding the new strategy and we continue to work with customers, employees and unions to improve the health and safety environment for our employees.
Employee engagement 28 59 30 We conducted a global employee survey, providing a detailed insight into 18 30 theviews of the workforce that we can take into account as we continue 15 14 todevelop our employee engagement programmes.
There was also Attack Non-attack Road traf c Total asignificant increase in response rate, by 30% to 245,000 employees.
2011 2010 According to thesurvey: u Overall employee engagement levels rose from 76% in 2009 to 81% in2011 Priorities for 2012 u Over 80% state their intention to be employed by G4S in 12 monthstime u Establishment of global forum for health and safety practitioners to gatherknowledge, share information and develop best practices u 89% believe they have been well trained to do their role u Development and implementation of a programme on road safety management Training and development u Monitoring the implementation of the action plans from Critical Country Continuing to invest in the development of our people, and in particular Reviews already conducted.
Further reviews to be conducted in response thetalent pipeline, is vital to ensure they have the skills, knowledge and to incident trends behaviours to meet increasingly complex challenges inarange of u Continue to utilise external health and safety benchmarks to check environments.
progress and drive change To ensure that G4S continually builds a strong talent pipeline we introduceda more comprehensive annual Talent Review process during 2011.
Thepurpose was to clarify current and future capability requirements and toassess our pipeline against this as well as review succession planning.
Around 700 senior leaders and managers were reviewed against criteria ontheir performance and potential.
G4S plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Corporate Social Responsibility continued Securing our environment Securing our communities Why it matters Why it matters Our customers and employees show increasing concern for environmental issues.
G4S recognises that its ability to provide a safe and secure environment Whilst our environmental impacts are not significant relative to other businesses around the world depends on the deep and real relationships with the of comparable size, it remains important for us to be efficient in our use of communities and people with whom it works.
G4S is therefore committed resources such as energy and, in doing so, curtailing our greenhouse gas emissions.
to being a good corporate citizen.
We understand the importance of investing in the communities in which we live and work and to which weprovide services.
What were doing What were doing Carbon and energy Since we launched our Climate Action Strategy in 2009, our carbon intensity Community programmes and investment has decreased by 10.3% per 1m of revenue.
In 2011, we set ourselves a target of achieving 2 million investment This reduction in carbon intensity translates to a real reduction of 3% incommunity programmes and charitable donations across the group.
In 2011, G4S also completed its first comprehensive review of its regional To mitigate impacts from our property portfolio, we launched a new and country managed community investment activity around the world.
GreenBuilding minimum standard in 2011 requiring that all future new-build Thereview has helped us to understand the true level of G4S community or long-lease facilities, above a certain threshold must meet the regional investment, identifying G4S participation in more than 550 community environmental building standard such as BREEAM or LEED.
In relation to our vehicle fleet impacts, implementation of the G4S Telematics In regions of the world where large parts of the community are at risk of system was completed in late 2011 which will allow us to monitor, manage poverty, we are developing programmes such as Sharing with our People and adjust driving behaviour, with the employee fully engaged in the process.
which has built new homes for employees in Romania, Peru and Chile, and Thisprogramme is expected to deliver cost savings of around 1.3m per ascholarship initiative in Guatemala which works to help front-line employees annum, around 10% of the operations fuel usage.
Since 2010 we have also gain their high school diploma, helping them to provide a better future for introduced a number of electrically powered vehicles into our fleet, such as themselves, their families and ultimately their communities.
the T3 Motion in USA and the Tazzari Zero in the Netherlands, as part of our programme to reduce vehicle emissions and create a greener fleet.
How were performing u G4S and its employees contributed over 2,250,000 to charities How were performing andcommunity good causes u The G4S 2011 total carbon footprint calculated for 100% of the business u Facilitated over 78,500 hours of employee volunteering with charitable equates to some 608,500 t CO2e concerns and local community good causes u Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 5.1% in 2011 u Invested in over 550 programmes supporting the health, education and u 5.5% reduction in overall fleet emissions since 2009 welfare ofchildren and young people u Invested 265,700 into programmes to support the long-term welfare Carbon intensity t CO2e per m and development of our employees in developing countries 2009 2010 2011 2011 community investment Carbon intensity t CO2e per m 85.8 81.1 77.0 2,100,000 Donations of money, goods and services Employee and third-party donations facilitated by G4S 152,000 Priorities for 2012 u Continue to implement energy efficiency strategies to reduce carbon Priorities for 2012 intensity by at least 13% from 2009 to 2012 u Build on our community investment to demonstrate greater impact u Launch and implement the new G4S environmental strategy for 2012 onthepeople we strive to support to2014 Includes 344,000 in charitable donations by the group.
u Develop our measurement of waste and water consumption and introduce targets for reduction G4S plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
