Genus plc Annual Report 2011 32 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Genus plays an increasingly important social and economic role in the efficient production of quality foods.
Richard Wood Chief Executive Sustainability in World Agriculture The Environment Genus plays a key part in the worlds agricultural economy Genus recognises that concern for the environment is and delivers many benefits to global society.
Genus unique an essential part of its business operations and seeks to position in the supply of superior natural animal genetics minimise risk to the environment by effective management enables the worlds farmers and food producers to ensure of the Groups activities.
Genus is committed to conducting the supply of quality products with increasing output at its business in a manner that is sensitive to the environmental improved production efficiencies.
In the context of an ever needs of the communities in which we operate.
Our locations increasing world population and decreasing resources integrate environmental management into their operational available for food production, Genus plays an increasingly systems and procedures: monitoring and reporting on important social and economic role in the efficient environmental performance is an integral part of the production of quality foods.
Groups operations and a key part of the Groups risk management programme.
Genus is committed to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and actively considers the Genus operates an active policy of environmental compliance economic, social and environmental impacts of the Groups requiring as a minimum compliance with the laws and activities, wherever it operates in the world.
By acting with regulations applicable to its business in each of the countries the highest standards of business conduct, Genus earns in which it operates.
In many cases, the Groups compliance the trust of its customers, shareholders, colleagues, exceeds local requirements.
We assess environmental risks suppliers, regulators and the communities in which it associated with existing and new facilities and establish operates.
Maintaining these standards is vital to the controls to ensure that any risks remain at an acceptable continued success and development of the Group.
Employees at our facilities receive a high level of training in environmental compliance matters and comprehensive All companies in the Genus Group follow procedures that environmental protocols are in operation at our facilities that are compliant with local laws and regulations and in many are subject to independent checks.
cases the Groups procedures exceed local requirements.
The Genus Board has overall responsibility for corporate Our Employees responsibility, assessing the needs of Genus stakeholders Genus places considerable value on the involvement and regularly, and delegates day to day management of corporate commitment of its employees.
Our staff play a vital role in responsibility issues to the Companys Operating Board in building a sustainable business and their skills, qualities conjunction with regional management.
and well-being underpin the Companys success.
The Genus approach to corporate responsibility applies to Genus employment policies respect the individual regardless the following key areas: the environment, our employees, of sex, age, race or religion.
Full and fair consideration is given health and safety, our stakeholder relationships and our to applications for employment from disabled people and the community.
The Genus principles of corporate services of employees who become disabled are retained responsibility apply to all our employees and set the wherever possible.
minimum standard for their behaviour.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 33 Training, career development and promotion opportunities regional health and safety teams that were appointed in the are provided throughout the Group, for example via the period, we operate a pro-active network of health and safety internet based Genus Global University.
Our training and personnel in our global facilities.
Knowledge and experience development programmes are designed both to equip is shared between facilities with the aim of cross-fertilising employees with the necessary skills for their current roles and best practice and ensuring consistently high standards of to enhance their careers.
Employees are actively encouraged safety across the Group.
The Global Health and Safety Officer to attain a broad understanding of the Groups businesses to is responsible for monitoring and reporting adherence by the give a strong base in the Companys culture and ethics.
Company to the Groups health and safety protocols and regular inspections are made of the Companys sites by The Group has a well established structure to communicate global health and safety staff.
with employees at every level to encourage their involvement and interest in the Groups performance and future activities.
Our Stakeholder Relationships This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, Customers internal communications, the Groups Genus World Genus aims to provide products and services of the highest magazine and the Groups intranet.
quality and technical standards appropriate to our customers own requirements.
At all times, Genus takes all reasonable We require all employees to act in an ethical manner both steps to ensure the safety and quality of the products and within the Group and in dealings with other organisations, services that it provides, including compliance with all and to comply with all applicable laws and Group policies.
Health & Safety Suppliers Genus is committed to providing safe systems of work Genus is committed to working with suppliers in mutually for its employees in all countries in which it operates and beneficial ways, and, so far as is practicable, requires that pro-actively monitors compliance with local regulations.
suppliers and contractors act in accordance with Genus This commitment is supported by a comprehensive training values and policies.
regime for the Groups employees.
Genus has developed best practice farm and animal handling protocols that are Our Community deployed at all farm locations.
These deal with the potential As a responsible member of the communities in which it dangers of working with livestock and operating equipment operates, Genus actively encourages its operating companies and the provision of a safe working environment.
The to engage positively with the local community in their areas monitoring and reporting on the Groups health and safety of operation and in all aspects of community relations.
At a performance is an integral part of the Groups operations Group level, the Company sponsors the Farm Business and a key part of the Groups risk management programme.
Awards and the John Beckett Foundation, a charity that provides business scholarships to young farmers.
Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace for our people requires effective management.
Under the supervision of a new Global Health & Safety Officer and strengthened
