3F Sustainability report Creating long-term sustainable value At the heart of everything GKN does is a drive for sustainability that is characterised by efficient and ethical operations from teams of well-supported, motivated and dynamic people.
Central to the GKN business model pages 8-9 are key capabilities that underpin sustainability and enable the delivery of strategic objectives and creation of long-term value for our shareholders.
These capabilities are summarised as: our Values, superior technology, outstanding employees, global footprint, continuous improvement and corporate responsibility.
Our values The GKN Code together with the associated policies directs the behaviours expected of all GKN people.
The GKN Code is encapsulated into 12 promises, six from GKN to its employees and six from employees to GKN: Promises from GKn to employees Promises from employees to GKn We will support you through investment I share GKNs commitment to build a and training so we can build a high high performing business with a strong performance business by delivering customer focus.
I show that commitment superb customer service.
We will help you develop your full I always respect the rights of other potential and we will not tolerate team members.
I do not put other team members at risk We will care for you by providing a safe of injury and will counsel anyone I see working environment.
We will do what we can to minimise our I believe in honest and proper conduct impact on the environment.
We are all part of a wider society and I know I am free to report behaviour which we will contribute positively to the is wrong and I will do so.
communities of which we are part.
I will help protect the environment and If you have a problem we will listen support local communities.
in confidence.. 3G GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regular employee dialogue ensures that the Values fully inform how we work and, during 2011, a global programme of workshops helped reinforce the promises and the expected behaviours implicit in them all.
Over 6,000 people have completed this programme at more than 25 sites and it is continuing throughout 2012.
The Values are promoted through posters, the Group intranet and recognition schemes across the Group.
Additionally, new legislation provides an opportunity to reinforce key principles that underpin the GKN Values.
Following the introduction into the UK in 2011 of the Bribery Act &$% $, a Group-wide training programme was launched explaining the implications of the Act for employees: it also includes a reprise of existing Competition and Anti-Trust legislation.
Superior technology For over 250 years GKN has developed and deployed new technologies: from the first steelmaking processes to the modern day use of advanced composites in aircraft, and from the introduction of the first front-wheel-drive vehicle systems 50 years ago to the development of electric drive systems for modern cars today.
Evidence of the importance of technology to GKN and examples of its application are shown throughout this report and on our website at www.
The GKN technology plan addresses the complete product lifecycle: from customer requirement to product development and then implementation to safe disposal.
The plan is driven by global trends including the low-carbon agenda, electrification, urbanisation, shortages of key resources, population growth and changes in food consumption.
Each business unit deploys technology to help customers meet these challenges and the Group Technology Strategy Board, chaired by the Groups Principal Engineer, drives the development and deployment of the technology plan.
It also facilitates collaboration on technology developments across the Groups businesses, sharing best practice and exploiting synergies where appropriate.
The Technology Strategy Board has a key role in further developing external relationships and partnerships, including access to external sources of funding.
GKN also works with other companies to develop technological advances in key sectors.
Composite technologies offer environmental and competitive advantages and, in November 2011, GKN Aerospace joined industry partners Airbus, AgustaWestland, Rolls-Royce, Umeco and Vestas in the official opening of the UKs National Composites Centre NCC.
The 8,500 square metre NCC facility is situated close to three of GKN Aerospaces major composite manufacturing operations in the UK, serving the global aerospace sector at Filton and Western Approach in Bristol, and Cowes on the Isle of Wight.
EMPlOyEES By REGION Outstanding employees as at 31 December 2 11 GKN has approximately 44,000 employees, in subsidiaries and joint ventures, and success in delivering shareholder value means the Group must strive to be an employer of choice, promoting a high performance culture with motivated, well-trained employees and outstanding leaders.
GKN seeks to recruit talented individuals with the skills and passion to become leaders of the future.
In 2011, GKN recruited over 100 graduates worldwide, providing opportunities to develop professional technical and leadership career paths.
GKN is also expanding its recruitment of apprentices and currently has some 825 around the world.
GKN is committed to supporting all its employees through investment and development.
In 2011 the GKN Academy, an online training resource, was fully deployed through the internet enabling all employees worldwide to access this from their workplace or home.
It provides over 360 courses in eight languages to employees and their families.
Good leadership is at the heart of engaging employees.
Development programmes address key stages of advancement, for newly promoted supervisors, through plant leadership roles and into executive, Group-wide roles.
Leadership development frameworks chart employees progress through managerial and technical careers, with focused assessment and training to provide the right support to achieve success.
Employee engagement is an important element in delivering positive business outcomes.
Each employees role is related to the Group strategy, and their job purpose and its business context is explained.
A variety of communication channels, with an emphasis on face-to-face communication, are used to help employees contribute their ideas and understand the context for decision-making in GKN.
, #, UK Rest of World , Europe excluding UK !, !
Americas Total $$, Including subsidiaries and joint ventures Business review.
4 Sustainability report Continued A Group-wide employee opinion survey EOS was conducted in 2011 which identified progress in manager communication and the level of understanding of business objectives and direction.
Actions are being implemented in areas where improvement opportunities EMPlOyEES By BuSINESS as at 31 December 2 11 were identified, including creating a greater understanding and demonstration of GKNs Values and providing better career discussions.
Monthly surveys, using a subset of the questions from the EOS, of some 3,000 employees globally provide an on-going indicator of communication and engagement across the Group.
These surveys identify areas for improvement in employee communications and engagement and facilitate local actions to address these.
In 2011, GKN won the Confederation of British Industry CBI prize for International Employee Engagement and the People Grand Prix award, recognising both GKNs employee engagement strategy and the progress towards achieving Group goals through employee engagement.
Global footprint To serve its international customer base and exploit growing markets requires a truly global business.
GKN has factories, service centres and offices in 37 countries across five continents.
This global footprint provides the ability to build and sustain close relationships with customers.
It helps to optimise GKNs position in supply chains and in developing new technologies in partnership with customers wherever they are globally.
Manufacturing in close proximity to customers also means products have to be transported shorter distances, helping the Group reduce its impact on the environment.
In China, GKN Driveline and its joint venture partner, SDS, opened a factory at Changchun in June 2011.
Changchun is the largest automotive industrial city in China.
In November 2011, GKN Driveline opened a new 6.6 million precision forge at Oragadam near Chennai, India, and work commenced on a new 8,000 square metre GKN Driveline facility in Pune, India.
More information on these new plants is given in the case study on page 16.
Expansion was also seen in more established markets, for example GKN Aerospace in the USA announced its intention to build a new 14,000 square metre aerospace components assembly facility in South Carolina.
The new facility will perform assembly operations for ENERGy CONSuMPTION PER uNIT OF PRODuCTION the recently-awarded production contract for the HondaJet.
kWh tonne continuous improvement A culture of continuous improvement is at the heart of GKN.
All GKN sites have a continuous improvement plan, aligned to business objectives.
This engages employees to focus consistently on positive development, building a culture which constantly questions the norm and identifies opportunities to excel further and deliver greater value for the Company, customers and shareholders.
A Lean Enterprise model provides the basis for continuous improvement across all operations and is key to creating efficiency for customers and reducing GKNs environmental footprint.
Lean is central to sustainability as it helps cut waste, reduce energy use, minimise raw material use and streamline all processes.
A Lean Enterprise model is applied to business and production processes worldwide see case studies page 18.
Continuous improvement is also an important mechanism in supporting improvements in health, safety and environmental performance which the following section addresses.
"%, # GKN Aerospace #, $ , GKN Land GKN Driveline Systems , Other businesses !, "" GKN Powder Metallurgy Total """", Including subsidiaries and joint ventures , , , , Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems Aerospace measured against, sales.. 41 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CO EMISSIONS PER uNIT OF PRODuCTION 2 corporate responsibility kg tonne Environment GKNs main impacts on the environment are energy and associated CO emissions, waste 2 generation and recycling, and water consumption."
The Group is committed to continuous improvement in all these areas of environmental performance and continues to take actions to address each of them.
81% of manufacturing locations are either certified to ISO14001 or are in the process of obtaining certification.
As noted above, Lean Enterprise is applied to energy efficiency and waste reduction programmes, both in offices and at our manufacturing locations.
All sites continue to develop energy efficiency targets, and actions are incorporated into their Continuous Improvement plans, ensuring regular reviews and appropriate actions.
The Group objective is to improve energy efficiency by 15% over the period 2009 to 2014.
Every division is on track to meet this: since 2009, GKN Driveline has improved energy efficiency by 13%, GKN Powder Metallurgy by 12%, GKN Aerospace by 7% and GKN Land Systems by 18%.
WaSTE GENERaTION PER uNIT OF PRODuCTION All four divisions improved energy efficiency in 2011 with in excess of a 4% improvement kg tonne over the prior year: in GKN Land Systems the improvement exceeded 16%.
Actions to reduce the generation of waste adhere to a hierarchy of first, and the best alternative, of not producing waste, second of reusing materials, and finally, if neither of these is possible, to recycle rather than simply dispose of the material.
Demonstrating the first of these, eliminating waste, GKN Powder Metallurgy at Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, USA, won the GKN Group Environmental Excellence Award in 2011 for the elimination of anhydrous ammonia by replacing the previous system with newer technologies, thus removing any risk of environmental impact.
During the year 88% of overall Group waste was recycled.
Overall Group water consumption reduced in 2011, with GKN Land Systems achieving a 26% reduction.
Much work remains to be done to improve GKNs environmental footprint and a combination of learning and best practice sharing will be used to support this.
RECyClED WaSTE % of total waste Compliance with all applicable rules and regulations remains a core objective.
Unfortunately in 2011 five notices of non-compliance were received and penalties were paid of US$2,600.
Health and Safety GKN is committed to continuous improvement in health and safety performance, with a goal of zero preventable accidents.
The tragedies at the Hoeganaes site in Gallatin, Tennessee, USA, in 2011 have broken a previously strong safety record.
As a result of these incidents GKN has significantly improved health and safety processes worldwide.
The Hoeganaes site in Gallatin experienced two significant events that led to the deaths of five GKN employees.
The health and safety of GKN employees is the number one priority for GKN and the Company deeply regrets the loss of lives.
It is taking every measure to ensure Gallatin operates to world class standards and that the lessons learned from these accidents are applied throughout the Group.
The accidents and actions are described below: n On 31 January 2011, a flash fire caused by an electric arc seriously injured two GKN people who subsequently lost their lives.
WaTER CONSuMPTION PER uNIT OF PRODuCTION 3 m tonne n On 27 May 2011, a fire fuelled by a hydrogen leak occurred near a furnace in the north annealing building taking the lives of three GKN people.
The plant has historically had a very strong safety record and, as with all industrial plants of this kind, is continually monitored by external agencies to confirm compliance with all applicable regulations.
These accidents have had a profound and permanent affect on everyone at GKN and most particularly the families and friends of the colleagues who lost their lives.
Support continues to be provided to the families and employees at the facility.
Following the incident in May 2011, all production ceased at the plant and two expert external firms were engaged to lead a comprehensive safety review of the entire facility.
This review involved all Gallatin employees as well as health and safety experts from across the Group.
, , Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems     Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems  Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems    Automotive Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems Aerospace measured against !, sales.
42 Sustainability report Continued The aim of the review was to ensure that the root causes of the incidents were fully understood and all necessary corrective actions implemented.
In addition, it was tasked with making recommendations that would take the Gallatin facility far beyond regulatory compliance to world class standards of operations and safety.
Over a period of three months, the recommendations from the review were implemented to ensure that similar accidents will not happen again.
This primarily involved: the upgrade of electrical systems: the replacement of key components in the gas and air supply system in the affected building: the implementation of significantly upgraded gas management and hydrogen detection systems: the development of an industry-leading powder metal dust management system: upgrade to furnaces to improve operations and safety: and full and comprehensive retraining of all employees and contractors.
The work was carried out in full consultation with Tennessee Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Gallatin Fire Department.
The plant went through a phased restart during August 2011, but only after the actions from the review were verified as complete.
Hoeganaes continues to cooperate fully with the US Chemical Safety Board specifically with regard to the recommendations made in its final report.
The lessons learned from the tragic events in Gallatin are now being spread across the whole Group to improve safety performance.
The key actions are set out below: n Specifically within the Gallatin plant and the broader Hoeganaes business, operational procedures have been fully reviewed, updated, tested and implemented, with the involvement of employees to embed new ways of working.
Appropriate hazard and risk management education has been deployed, including a focus on dust reduction, containment and mitigation.
n Internal processes Groupwide are being expanded to include a more formal audit regime, centrally resourced, and directed against broad-based and wide-ranging audit criteria.
Learning from the 2011 incidents is being incorporated into the audit regime and GKN continues to engage internationally recognised consultants to assess sites and recommend actions as appropriate.
Throughout 2012, there will be additional site reviews, peer group company audits and dedicated internal specialist safety audits.
n thinkSAFE!, a comprehensive online and face-to-face communication programme is being deployed across the Group during 2012.
Currently implemented in GKN Driveline, it has proven highly successful in reducing accidents and improving employee behaviour towards safety, as well as engaging employees to help create a safe working environment.
Global procedures and ways of working are continually reviewed and improved based on best practice, including the robust deployment of RADAR Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review.
This is a GKN-developed behavioural awareness and improvement tool, which assists employees in recognising hazards and risks in their work area and empowers them to take action to eliminate or mitigate those hazards or risks detected.
A risk assessment programme has also been developed for machinery, including auxiliary and support equipment.
The continued use and spread of RADAR and machinery risk assessment, supported by improved processes and procedures, will be regularly audited and will reinforce the foundations already in place to drive continuous improvement.
Employee communication about health and safety occurs regularly, including safety briefings, hazard awareness training and incident investigation.
A variety of audio, visual and animation techniques are being used to engage employees, delivering clear and consistent messages.
The management of health and safety, including compliance with laws and regulations in GKN, is based on the international health and safety system standard OHSAS 18001.
78% of locations have achieved certification to OHSAS 18001 and the remaining sites are working towards this.. 43 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 aCCIDENT FREquENCy RaTE Health and safety performance is measured on a regular basis and reports are made monthly Number of lost time accidents per 1, permanent employees to the Executive Committee.
A half and full year report is made to the GKN Board.
Accident frequency rate AFR and Accident severity rate ASR are the key health and safety performance indicators for the Group and our performance for 2011 is shown in the adjacent charts.
The Group has seen overall improvement in these safety metrics over the last ten years.
Whilst there was an increase in AFR in 2010, performance against both metrics has improved in 2011.
Each division sets annual targets based on health and safety improvement and accident rate reduction.
These targets are set at portfolio, division and plant level taking into account local conditions, priorities and objectives.
All actions are aligned with the Group objective of zero preventable accidents.
During 2011 there were six health and safety enforcement actions against GKN companies in the US and UK, two of which resulted in fines issued by relevant authorities amounting to $16,000.
This amount does not include fines that may be incurred as a result of the Gallatin incidents, which are yet to be finalised.
aCCIDENT SEvERITy RaTE Communities Number of days shifts lost due to accidents and occupational ill health per 1, permanent employees GKN has a proud history of working with the communities in which it operates.
To encourage this, individuals and groups of employees are recognised for the contribution they make through the annual GKN Hearts of Gold Awards.
One of the highlights of the 2011 awards was an on-going project at the GKN Driveline facility in Porto Alegre, Brazil, integrating people with learning difficulties and disabilities into its workforce.
Partnerships with local specialists support the different challenges that are involved in this.
In 2011 two projects, funded by the GKN Millennium Trust, were completed.
The first, a project based in rural Pabal, India, is a partnership between GKN and Vigyan Ashram and involved a new education facility to develop engineering skills in local children so that they can take back to their communities skills such as welding, maintenance, electrical installation and much more.
The 602 square metre building was completed in 2011 and officially opened at a ceremony in which Sir Kevin Smith presented the first set of students with certificates of achievement after completion of their foundation modules.
The second project is a new teaching and innovation facility which opened at the GKN Aerospace Filton facility in the UK.
Leveraging the Groups position within the UK National Composites Network, it provides training to students to help them design new products and understand the environmental impact of production processes.
The facility welcomed its first students in 2011: since then 102 students have attended for two days of activities.
GKN seeks to react positively when unexpected events strike the communities in which we work.
In April 2011, tornados devastated large parts of North Carolina, USA, close to GKN facilities.
14 GKN employees families were directly affected including fatalities, loss of homes and structural damage to houses.
The GKN Driveline community helped clear debris, repair and rebuild homes and provide funds to support affected families.
In another event near to GKNs operations, the massive earthquake and tsunami that struck north eastern Japan in March 2011 had a devastating effect, claiming thousands of lives and destroying communities.
In the aftermath of this devastation, and after seeking advice from colleagues in Japan on the most appropriate way to provide support, GKN made a donation of US $250,000 to the Japanese Red Cross to help alleviate the suffering.
These activities are just a few of the numerous connections with communities: visit www.
com  for further examples of the work undertaken by GKN employees.
