44 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Responsible business We recognise that the research, We recognise there are many barriers and We believe that being development, manufacture and sale obstacles on the path to better health a responsible business of our products can raise ethical issues, and we are committed to nding new and we aim to be open about how we and innovative ways of tackling them.
is good for GSK and address these.
We also understand that By working in partnership with others, it is important we communicate with by challenging the way things are and society.
It helps us to the groups and individuals our business by being prepared to change the way we create the products that affects.
We seek to understand their views do business, we aim to nd innovative and be transparent about any setbacks solutions that create value for society as patients and healthcare we experience, as well as the progress well as our shareholders and allow us to we have made.
We are growing our business through Access to healthcare in the developing world It also helps us to operate a culture that ensures all our decisions There are no easy solutions to the efficiently, to gain the are guided by our values: commit to challenge of providing sustainable access transparency: show respect for people: trust of our stakeholders to healthcare in developing countries.
demonstrate the highest integrity in our Poverty is the single biggest barrier.
and to foster the right conduct and be patient-focused.
In many countries people do not have conditions for the growth enough food or access to a supply of clean To grow our business in a sustainable and water.
They also cannot access hospitals responsible way, we focus on four areas: of our business.
or clinics that provide professional help s Health for all helping improve and treatments.
These challenges make it peoples health and well-being all the more important that we contribute regardless of where they live or their where we can.
ability to pay We are committed to playing a full part s Our people & communities working to in addressing the healthcare challenges support the development of our people of the developing world by taking an and communities around the world innovative, responsible and sustainable approach.
GSK is making a contribution s Our behaviour behaving in an open to developing country healthcare in a and honest manner in all that we do, number of areas.
These include: guided by our values s tiered pricing of our vaccines and s Our planet growing our business medicines and capped prices in Least while protecting the natural resources Developed Countries LDCs we all need for the future.
We have a Board Committee, chaired s investing in R&D that targets diseases by the Chairman which regularly particularly affecting the developing reviews the companys CR policy and world performance.
More details are given in s being exible with our intellectual the Corporate Responsibility Committee property and pursuing an open Report on page 103. innovation strategy More on our approach to these key areas s community investment activities follows.
We also publish information on and partnerships that foster effective our approach and performance in our healthcare and capacity building Corporate Responsibility Report which can be found on our website.
Our 2011 s seeking innovative partnerships Report will be published in March 2012. and solutions, including re-investment of profits into healthcare infrastructure Health for all No.
1 in LDCs We are working to make our medicines, s preferential pricing by ViiV Healthcare vaccines and consumer healthcare of anti-retrovirals for HIV AIDS.
in the Access to Medicines Index products available and affordable to as Our comprehensive approach many of the people who need them as possible, irrespective of where they live helped us to be rated the leader in or their ability to pay.
We aim to do this the bi-annual Access to Medicines while generating a return, as we need to ATM Index published by the ATM be able to sustain our business and invest Foundation in 2008 and 2010. in research for new products.
GSK Annual Report 2011 45 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Vaccines for the developing world Organisations such as UNICEF, the Pan American Health Organization PAHO and the GAVI Alliance are helping to save childrens lives and protect peoples health by increasing access to immunisations in poor countries.
We are a leading vaccine supplier to these organisations.
Of the 1.1 billion vaccine doses our business shipped in 2011, just over 80% of these went to developing countries, including least developed lowand middleincome countries.
In June 2011, we offered to supply 125 million doses of our rotavirus vaccine Rotarix to GAVI at $2.50 per dose, a small fraction of developed world prices.
We will also supply up to 480 million doses of our pneumococcal vaccine, Synorix, to GAVI at a heavily discounted price to help expand immunisation programmes to 72 developing countries.
We have also signed an agreement to supply Synorix, Cervarix and Rotarix to PAHO, expanding the protection of women against the virus that leads to cervical cancer and protecting more children against pneumonia and gastrointestinal diarrhoeas cause by rotavirus.
We will continue to build on these Also in October, we became a founder product, pricing and partnership member of the WIPO Re:Search commitments to help improve healthcare consortium, a group of over 20 in the developing world.
We report companies, academic institutions and fully on our progress in our Corporate government research bodies established Responsibility Report, but some to provide access to intellectual property highlights from 2011 follow.
for pharmaceutical compounds, technologies, and most importantly In October we published encouraging know-how and data available for research initial Phase III results of our malaria and development for neglected tropical vaccine candidate which showed that it diseases, tuberculosis, and malaria.
reduces malaria by half in young African children aged 517 months.
Tom Whipps 46 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Responsible business continued The Tres Cantos Open Lab opened Our people and communities Employees by region in 2011 at our Spanish medicines Investing in our people and communities development campus, dedicated to 6 1 will help us to ensure the long-term 5 research into diseases of the developing sustainability of our business.
By the end of the year, we had employment practices are designed to 2 seven projects with 11 visiting scientists help us create the right workplace culture from both the developed and in which all employees feel valued, developing world.
A significant increase in resources from 3 We also want the many communities the global community is still needed to No.
we work in to prosper as our business 1 USA 16,707 support R&D and to provide access to grows.
Our community investment 2 Europe 38,696 the resultant medicines and vaccines.
strengthens our business by supporting 3 Emerging Markets 29,466 Sustainable progress will only be made the local economies where we operate, 4 Asia Pacic 7,039 if the significant barriers that stand in helping us build relationships based on 5 Japan 3,573 the way of better access to healthcare are 6 Other 1,908 mutual understanding and also boosting tackled as a shared responsibility by all employee morale.
sectors of global society governments, international agencies, charities, academic Recruiting, developing and As our business evolves, there will institutions, the pharmaceutical industry engaging employees be changes that affect employees.
We want GSK to be an employer of choice We remain committed to consulting and we are investing signicantly in on these changes via a number of our talent development at every level.
internal consultation forums, as well as Recruiting, developing and engaging discussions with the European Works employees is critical to meeting and Council and similar bodies in countries sustaining our business objectives and where this is national practice.
Our assessment processes are aligned to a core set of Diversity at GSK competencies, of which ethics and We focus on creating an inclusive, integrity are central.
engaging environment that empowers employees to continually contribute We take a global view of talent and to the organisation and enables us to strategic capabilities, looking at the achieve our strategic business objectives.
quality, depth and breadth of our talent An inclusive environment is good for across the world.
We strive to have good business because it brings different succession plans in place for critical knowledge, perspectives, experiences and positions across the organisation.
We have working styles that enhance creativity proactive initiatives in place to recruit and innovation.
We aim to attract specialist and leadership talent, and we a diverse workforce that reects the maintain a robust leadership strategy to communities in which we operate.
identify and develop our highly skilled leadership group.
We offer all employees The proportion of people we employ in a range of learning opportunities and Emerging Markets, Asia Pacic and Japan tailored development programmes.
is growing, increasing from 28% in 2007 to 41% of our total employees in 2011.
Our performance and development Around 10% of senior managers who planning process means employees report to our executive team also come have business-aligned objectives and from these regions.
Reward systems are focused on promoting high performance and helping to attract and retain the best 11 people.
Performance-based pay, bonuses and share-based equity plans align visiting scientists working employee interests with business targets.
on projects in the Tres Cantos Open Lab GSK Annual Report 2011 47 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination and to an environment that does not tolerate harassment or discrimination of: actual or perceived race, colour, ethnic or national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and or expression, religion or belief, physical ability disability and or chronic health conditions, genetic make-up or other protected characteristics as relevant in a country.
A healthy, high-performing workforce with zero harm To meet our mission and strategy, employee health and safety initiatives focus on the factors that enable employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining energy and engagement and drive towards zero harm in the workplace.
We provide resources, tools and programmes to employees to support them in adopting healthier lifestyles and managing the pressures of work and life.
These are available in many languages and range from options such as immunisations, smoking control, weight management and process safety to cutting-edge programmes for team and personal resilience, ergonomics, driver safety and Energy for Performance.
Our company-wide programme Living Safety is designed to build a culture of zero harm, with a goal of no serious environment, health and safety incidents.
0OSITIVE !CTION FOR #HILDREN &UND In support of the global effort to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV by 2015, ViiV Healthcare has broadened the reach and scope of donations for its Positive Action for Children Fund PACF.
One highlight of this programme was a 500,000 grant to Care International for the Our Future project which seeks to empower communities to address the effects of sexual violence and reduce stigma in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo.
It is doing this through the promotion of services and the empowerment of community-based campaigns on the ground.
Another highlight was the new 1.5 million small grants scheme, supporting 82 community based projects in 21 countries across the globe.
The projects selected to receive funding through this effort are specically aimed at improving the health and welfare of women, children and families affected by HIV.
For more on ViiV Healthcare see page 26.
TBD 48 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Responsible business continued Our work with communities The programmes we support are designed Our behaviour to have a long-term, sustainable impact.
Through our investment in communities, Our commitment to responsible, valuesWe set ambitious commitments and we aim to improve health education based business underlies everything work with experienced partners.
We also and to increase access to medicines and we do.
We have strong policy and encourage employees to get involved healthcare services, targeting our support compliance programmes and expect through our volunteering initiatives such where it is needed most.
the same standards of our suppliers, as the Orange Day programme and the contractors and business partners.
Our approach includes funding Most importantly, we are building a innovative programmes that improve Our global community investment was stronger culture based on our values health through community engagement 204 million in 2011.
Overall giving has of Transparency, Respect for People, and behavioural change, donating remained constant after excluding our Integrity and Patient focus.
medicines and expertise, and reinvesting donation of 24 million doses of H1N1 some of our profits to improve healthcare We recognise that we need to be open vaccination to WHO in 2010.
We also invest in science about what we do, how we do it and the includes donations of products worth education and support relief efforts challenges we face.
126 million, which we value using an following natural disasters.
average cost of goods rather than the We know that the research and We maximise the benets of our higher wholesale acquisition price as we development, manufacture and sale of community investment by working in believe it is a more accurate reection of our products can raise ethical issues.
partnership with non-governmental the true cost to GSK.
We must meet consistently high quality organisations and by selecting projects and ethical standards for research and Our product donation is primarily made that enable us to apply our expertise development in all parts of our business, through three programmes: Patient and resources.
and in all the countries where we operate.
Assistance Programs 96 million, We recognise there are aspects of our As well as benefiting communities, our humanitarian product donations research that can raise ethical concerns, investment strengthens our business 4 million and donation of albendazole including those relating to animal by improving our reputation, boosting tablets for the lymphatic lariasis LF research and studies of experimental employee morale and helping us elimination programme 19 million.
We build trust build relationships based on mutual Our cash giving of 57 million is also with our stakeholders by meeting their understanding with a range of groups.
included in this total and is targeted expectations on our behaviour, and by primarily at health and education being transparent and open to challenge initiatives, including our reinvestment and discussion.
of 20% of profits we make in Least Developed Countries back into healthcare Ethical conduct infrastructure 3.9 million.
Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK.
Failure to uphold high ethical standards can erode trust in our company and Our community investment How our cash donations are our products, damage our reputation by type allocated and result in serious financial or legal 6 1 consequences.
Our Code of Conduct 1 5 4 sets out fundamental standards for 3 4 all employees.
It is supported by the 2 Employee Guide to Business Conduct, which is available in 22 languages and 2 helps employees make ethical decisions with an emphasis on our values.
3 Our internal compliance systems are m % 1 Cash 57 1 Health 52 designed to identify and address breaches 2 Product 126 2 Education 22 of our codes and reinforce GSKs values.
3 In kind 4 3 Arts & Culture 9 There is continual external pressure 4 Management 17 4 Environment 2 to enhance these systems and our 5 Other 15 compliance oversight and internal audits are helping to drive this change.
Our compliance programmes are designed to embed a values-based culture at GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2011 49 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 In 2011 we launched One Compliance, To reect our commitment to consistently Carbon an initiative to improve consistency in high standards in sales and marketing, Our long-term vision is for our entire policy, implementation and monitoring we reviewed and expanded our Global value chain to be carbon neutral by 2050. across all our business units and the Code of Practice for Promotion and Around 40% of our carbon footprint different countries where we operate.
The code, results from our supply chain and a We fully investigate suspected breaches which covers areas such as providing further 40% from propellants released and take appropriate disciplinary action, information to healthcare professionals, from our inhalers.
samples, payments to healthcare professionals, gifts and hospitality, grants Less than a fifth of our total impact We have a zero-tolerance approach to and donations, will be deployed in 2012. comes directly from our operations, so bribery and corruption, set out in our All sales and marketing employees will be while we continue to increase energy Preventing Corrupt Practices policy.
In trained on the revised code.
efficiency and the use of renewable 2011 we established an Anti-Bribery and energy at our sites, we are also focusing Corruption Expert Forum which meets Our planet on our supply chain and the use of weekly to answer employee questions and In 2010 we revised our environmental products, especially inhalers.
advise on anti-bribery and corruption sustainability strategy focusing on issues.
Members of the forum include In 2011 we began footprinting key carbon, water, waste and environmental representatives from our legal and products to identify the priorities, and stewardship, not just for our own compliance functions, as well as external have developed site-based events to operations but also across our full value consultants.
Answers are posted on our analyse local carbon reduction potential chain, from raw materials to product intranet which all employees can visit.
and act on the opportunities.
As part of the strategy we set we reduced energy consumption from ambitious 2020 goals for key impacts, our operations by 5.2%.
Greenhouse including a 25% reduction in our carbon gas emissions from the use of inhalers footprint, a 20% reduction in water use rose by 2.9%.
across the value chain, zero waste to landll, and almost doubling our mass efficiency the efficiency with which we use materials in our new pharmaceutical products.
By 2050, we aim to be carbon neutral across our entire supply chain.
50 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Responsible business continued Water We aim to reduce the volume of We have continued to improve our packaging and use recycled materials understanding of the environmental Water is a particularly important natural where possible, and to encourage impacts of some of our purchased resource, and we recognise that GSK can consumers to recycle after use.
In 2011 materials and begun to work with play a positive role in managing it more we revised our Green Packaging Guide key suppliers.
We have held detailed sustainably.
We endorsed the United to help designers choose the most discussions with leading suppliers on Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2009 and sustainable option.
We began using our developing carbon footprints for materials are working with some other signatories own waste plastic to make 2IBENA bottles, and are using these data to improve to develop a disclosure methodology.
which will provide more than a quarter environmental performance.
The aim is to agree how to measure of our annual bottle requirement, saving a companys water impact across the Environmental management approximately 700,000 and 3,000 value chain, as an essential first step in tonnes of CO2 emissions a year.
The new Environmental Sustainability managing GSKs total water impact.
In Steering Team is responsible for shaping 2011 we reduced water consumption in Environmental stewardship our environmental sustainability our operations by 6.9%.
Increasing the efficiency with which we strategy so that it is integrated into the use materials is a priority.
Our target is business strategy and is both realistic and Waste to achieve 2.5% mass efficiency for new stretching.
We manage environmental Our goal is for zero waste going to landll pharmaceutical products transferred from issues as well as occupational health by 2020.
In 2011 we reduced waste R&D to manufacturing by 2015, with and safety using a management system generation in our operations by 1.2% and the long-term aspiration to achieve 5% aligned with recognised international reduced the waste sent to landll by 25%.
This is five times standards.
Environmental, health Also during the year we continued trials the typical level in the pharmaceutical and safety data are subject to external of a take-back scheme to recycle used industry and will reduce input materials assurance.
You can read more about our inhalers.
Following success in the USA, and waste by 80%.
The average mass environmental strategy and performance we extended an initial trial with the Coefficiency for new products transferred to in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
operative supermarket chain in the UK.
Cutting our carbon Around 40% of our carbon footprint comes from propellants released from our inhalers.
This year, we extended a take-back scheme for inhalers from the USA to the UK.
Working with pharmacists, we seek to encourage patients to return empty inhalers when they collect a new one.
The used inhalers are recycled and the plastics sent for remanufacturing.
Any remaining aerosol propellant is reused in nonmedical applications.
Saving the propellant has avoided the equivalent of 35 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
