oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion 1.5 | sustainability Glencore Corporate Practice GCP is designed to ensure ropendent audits of Glencores sustainability performance, and bust business practice for sustainability and other non-financial any management strategies and action plans in response to business areas, throughout all Glencore business segments and issues raised, making recommendations to the Board as approcommodity departments, at both corporate and local levels.
meets  best practice standards for corporate governance and management of non-financial activities.
We use it to continuously improve performance in these areas, PROgREss OVERViEw FOR 2011 and to develop internal and external understanding and acceptance of how we manage sustainability.
Health and safety It is with great sadness that we report 18fatalities at our operations in 2011.
We also saw lost time injury frequency rates that International law were slightly higher, although not fully comparable with 2010.
Best practice standards These results clearly reinforce our focus on continuous improvement in health and safety.
GCP principles To this end, our HSEC Board committee initiated and conducted baseline assessments of health and safety in 2011, assisted by an internationally renowned independent third party.
AsGCP management sessments started at our South American metals operations in January2012, and will be rolled out across all operations over the rest of the year.
These assessments are designed to improve the transparency of our health and safety management and Group and local policies provide additional input for taking any necessary corrective action and improvements.
This is a further step along the road to achieving our aim of a zero harm operation.
Local law Environment We experienced no serious environmental accidents classified as ClassA: Major by our environmental incident reporting tHE sCOPE OF gCP system in 2011.
We believe this reflects the robustness of our procedures and policies, particularly in light of our extensive The GCP requirements are mandatory for everyone at Glencore.
These activities are not limited to the This applies throughout our marketing activities, and in all inextraction of natural resources but also include significant lodustrial activities where we own over 50% or have operational gistical operations: for example, maritime transportation.
The majority of Glencores industrial assets are brownfield, rather than greenfield, operations.
Greenfield projects are particularly gCP gOVERnAnCE prone to issues that involve disturbing land upon which people live or rely for their livelihoods, or which has specific  for GCP development and implementation lies mental value: for instance natural beauty, or valuable ecosyswith our Health and Safety, Environment and Communities tems, habitats or biodiversity.
In contrast, brownfield legacy HSEC committee, established by Glencores Board in 2011. issues often require equipment upgrades or, in extreme cases, Chaired by an independent Board member, this committee partial or complete rebuilding of facilities.
This must generally provides the leadership, control and guidance needed to enbe done while continuing production to maintain local levels of sure group-wide adherence to the GCP framework.
This may result in a situation where our approach is challenged and subjected to scrutiny by local or global stakeThe committee evaluates how effectively Glencore identifies holders, such as NGOs or the media.
Challenges typically focus and manages environmental and health and safety risks, and ason the timescales of our improvement projects, rather than our sesses our compliance with the relevant regulations.
This is because timescales for complex projects the impact of Glencore sustainability programmes on our emcan be particularly lengthy and may not match the expectations ployees, local communities and other third parties, as well as of observers and other stakeholders.
This has been the case for the impact on our reputation.
some of our operations in 2011.
The committee receives management reports on all fatalities As stated in our GCP commitments, we are committed to conand serious accidents and the resulting actions, and evaluates tinuously reducing the environmental impact of our operations.
and oversees all sustainability reporting to external stakehold- 2011 saw further improvements, with many initiatives comers, on behalf of the Board.
It reviews the results of any indemenced, implemented or completed this year.
| Annual Report 2011 | 19 One legacy issue subject to significant local and global stakeaffected.
The air quality concern is attributed to the operations holder scrutiny in 2011 involved our Mopani smelter operation.
of all four concession owners in the region, one of which is ProThe smelter emissions have had a negative impact on air quality deco.
All four companies are committed to resettling residents in the town of Mufulira in Zambia since its commissioning in 1937. in compliance with World Bank standards and their own corpoMopanis improvement projects continued in 2011, including rate principles.
During an assessment and community  of the smelter, which is progressing to an acceltion carried out in 2011, it became clear that residents expectaerated timetable.
The pace of work, by both Mopanis workers in tions were not being met by the government-owned operator Zambia and equipment manufacturers elsewhere, enabled us to managing the project, and that the process required greater announce that the modernisation will be finished by the end of transparency.
For this reason, the four concession owners have 2013.
This is 18months ahead of the target agreed with the Zamnow appointed an additional external team to support and exbian government in the environmental management plan.
Drawn from a world-renowned company with completed, we will capture over 97% of our emissions meeting both local Colombian and international resettlement expertise, international standards on emissions capture.
the team was deployed at the beginning of 2012.
They plan to meet with community representatives in Plan Bonito, El Hatillo In 2011 we also continued with significant investments in our and Boqueron to collaboratively establish negotiation commitDRC operations, located in the province of Katanga.
We contintees, create committee rules and procedures and agree a resetued the commissioning of our greenfield Mutanda copper and tlement action plan.
cobalt hydrometallurgical plant in accordance with a phased approach.
This has allowed us to use the latest environmental We also continued our established programme of social develtechniques including the construction of a double lined tailings opment projects in 2011.
We aim to tailor these programmes to facility.
the needs of the local communities.
At Katanga Mining Ltd, our brownfield project in DRC, we conIn the DRC, projects included the construction of a new on-site tinued upgrading the copper and cobalt metallurgical facilities.
hospital for our workers in Kolwezi and their dependants, a We continue to address environmental legacy issues and where new clinic at Mutanda, and a dispensary in the villages of Kando possible accelerate solutions to reverse these.
In February 2012 and Lualaba, which will provide medical services for more than we completed construction of the effluent discharge system 5,000people.
We continued with the rehabilitation and mainwhich will neutralise and discharge all effluent from the plants tenance of the roads of the Kolwezi district and in addition reinto a tailings facility, bringing to an end a legacy issue spanning habilitated the Kolwezi runway and airport.
We continued with more than 50years.
However, in the meantime the situation has donations in the forms of medical supplies to local hospitals also attracted NGO and media attention.
Working in such an and books and desks for local schools.
Glencore completed the environment inevitably means that there are many challenges construction of the 102-bed Kisangani hospital in the northern ahead, but we are satisfied that our responsible development of province of Orientale.
In March2012, Glencore also completed DRC resources continues to provide improved living conditions the construction of the 75-bed Pweto hospital in the south of for the local population and over ten thousand quality jobs.
Both new facilities include state-of-theaddition, Glencore makes significant direct voluntary contribuart medical equipment, and cater for a variety of specialised tions towards schools, hospitals and other infrastructure for fields of medicine.
In Zambia, Mopani undertook a sanitation infrastructure project 2011 was also an important year for our coal operations in Coin the Wusakile township, with the construction of some 1,500 lombia, which made huge progress in expanding its two opernew sanitation units.
This was identified as an area where Moating mines, as well as the construction of new direct-loading pani could contribute to the people of Wusakile and bring an port facilities.
This is expected to be one of the worlds leading end to the recurrent outbreaks of typhoid fever.
The rehabilitacoal ports, with a direct loading system that is world-class in tion of the Kitwe bypass and the Sabina-to-Mufulira National safety, efficiency and environmental protection.
roads were also undertaken during 2011.
Mopani continued its involvement in schooling and health programmes, which have As part of our first sustainability report, we estimated our been running for many years.
Our malaria programme enjoys greenhouse gas emissions across the group.
This showed that continued success with the malaria incident rate in the town of emissions from our shipping activities outweigh those from Kitwe reducing from 200 out of every 1,000people in 2001 to land equipment.
Consequently, we launched a project in 2011 7.7 out of every 1,000people in 2011.
The Mopani HIV AIDS proto explore opportunities for reducing our shipping fuel congramme continues to be successful, with the transmission rate sumption by systematically examining the energy efficiency of from mother to child reducing from 35% in 2005 to below 3% our time-chartered vessels.
Communities Product stewardship At our Calenturitas coal project, based in Cesar province, CoIn 2010, our agricultural division qualified for the International lombia, we are undertaking a resettlement project in  and Carbon ISCC certification scheme, in order tion with three other mining companies.
Air quality monitoring to meet the requirements of the European Renewable Energy in the area led to a governmental decree to resettle three comDirective for sustainable biofuel production supply chains.
For munities, with approximately 600households expected to be 2011, we expanded this supply chain integrity programme to 20 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion our crushing plants in Argentina, crop cultivation in Australia and country offices in Europe.
Our product stewardship activities in 2010 were largely characterised by preparations for the new European substance registration requirements for REACH the European Unions chemical control act.
Building on those achievements, 2011 saw product safety integrated further into our marketing activities.
For our EU customers, this included implementation of an electronic safety datasheet distribution system, which we intend to roll out globally in the future.
Reporting We issued our first public sustainability report covering the year 2010 in 2011.
We plan to issue our 2011 report in the summer of 2012, which will include further details of the GCP management programme.
tHE gCP PROgRAMME The full GCP programme will incorporate Glencores groupwide sustainability targets and objectives to the existing GCP framework.
This will allow us to measure and report on our progress towards fulfilling our GCP commitments.
Roll out of the GCP programme is a key sustainability milestone for 2012: top-level targets and objectives will be published in our 2011 sustainability report.
Every business within the group will contribute its own set of objectives to the programme, where necessary, appropriate for its specific operations and aligned to the group targets.
Periodic assessments, management reviews and corrective action plans should ensure that performance is in line with the GCP requirements, objectives and targets.
