business review corporate social responsibility We have made much progress over the past We are now in discussions with those The key corporate year with our CSR goals and, despite setting suppliers that still use artificial trans fats challenging targets, have achieved many intheir products to ensure that they are responsibility issues ofour aims.
Last year we signed up to the removed from our food supply chain by forour business are: Governments Public Health Responsibility theend of this year.
Deal PHRD which largely reflected our own aims and which now forms the basis Allergen information Food safety and supply ofour target setting going forward.
We now publish information on all the major allergens found in our core dishes, Environmental issues This report covers our progress over the together with information on dishes that lastfinancial year.
Full details of our CSR contain ingredients free from gluten.
The working environment policies and practices can be found in the Working with Coeliac UK, we are currently Attracting, developing Responsibility section of our website finalising a training programme for house www.
managers and chefs on allergens in food andretaining talent that will be delivered this summer autumn Food safety and supply and which will equip them with up-to-date Health & safety In line with our commitment to the PHRD, knowledge and guidance on Government and our own prior commitment to healthy guidelines.
Armed with this information, Support for communities choices, we have concentrated much of our our teams will be able to help customers effort on ensuring we are able to give our with their choices and address any concerns Responsible retailing customers more choice, healthier options they may have.
The training will also now and lower fat alternatives, as well as on form part of the manager induction process.
Support for our tenants being able to deliver on our promises, In addition, we are designing a kitchen namely around salt targets and trans poster to highlight key actions to avoid fatsinour dishes.
Salt targets Healthy eating We have reviewed all of our core menu Our Hungry Horse chain continues to items across our Greene King pubs, hotels innovate with new female friendly and and restaurants and benchmarked them healthier choices dishes.
This year saw the against the Governments 2012 salt targets.
introduction of dishes such as bruschetta Any products that do not comply with these and a roasted chicken and sweet chilli wrap guidelines are now being looked at with a plus a new lower calorie section offering Visit the view to either altering the recipe, where this dishes of 600 calories or less.
Over the next Responsibility is possible, or to removing them from our year we will be looking at further lower menus.
In partnership with our suppliers calorie options and the introduction of Section of we are putting a process in place to ensure moresalads.
co. uk all new products comply with the 2012 toseedetails of our CSR targets before they enter our supply chain.
Healthy children policies and practices.
Our popular pick n mix menu for children has Trans fats been extended to 710 year olds.
The menu We have contacted all of our suppliers to allows children and their parents toselect gain positive confirmation that the food healthier options such as mash instead of supplied to us is free of any artificial trans chips and also allows them an extra portion fats and are pleased to report that the of vegetables without charge.
majority of our suppliers have already removed these from their products.
We now use free-range eggs across all of ourmanaged pubs in England and Wales.
Small steps High Park, Huddersfield Hardys House has been helping children understand the benefits of healthy eating by giving them the chance to help grow and harvest vegetables and herbs.
Pak Choi, peppers, carrots, lettuce, leeks, onions, beetroot, chillies, tomatoes, cucumber, radishes andcoriander were all grown in planters chosen and painted by the children.
Oncethe crops were ready to harvest thechildren were able to use them at acreate a pizza session at the pub.
26 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Scores on the Doors increase in the number and the size of our The popular Frog and Parrot had already This year has seen both the extension of the pubs and an increase in the amount of beer been named the best pub in Sheffield, and Local Government environmental health we brewed, led to an increase in our overall went on to compete against six other pubs departments grading system, Scores on the energy consumption of 0.4% to 412,443 and bars from across the country for the Doors and with it a steep rise in the number MWh.
However, the mix between gas and national title.
The awards reward pubs for of our pubs now graded good to excellent.
electricity meant that overall our CO their safety and crime prevention measures.
2 Where schemes exist we now have 33 of our emissions were actually down 1.6%.
Judges were impressed by the pubs choice pubs with 5 Excellent scores and a further of music, training, community atmosphere 33 with 4 Good ratings.
We used more water overall last year and its relationship with surrounding tobrew more beer but still managed to residents the manager, Nick Simmonite, The environmental impacts reduce the amount of water used from has fortnightly meetings with residents ofourbusiness 4.4barrels of water for every barrel of associations.
Our work on environmental matters has beerproduced to 4.3 which represents a continued to focus on reducing our overall significant reduction from 2007 08, when In addition, the Festing in Portsmouth was energy consumption, our water use, how we first began to report how efficiently awarded Best Bar in category and Portsmouth wedeal with our waste and reducing our weused water in the brewing process.
Another of our pubs, emissions.
Each year our data collection Backthen we were using 5.6 barrels of the Turf Tavern, Carlisle, was afinalist in improves enabling us to be clearer about water forevery barrel of beer brewed.
Carlisles BBN awards, missing out to the ourprogress and set more accurate targets.
And in Scotland, the Last year we cut the amount of waste we Gold winning Twa Tams, Perth was also a The year has seen us increase the number produced and increased the amount we sent finalist in the national BBN Scotland awards.
ofour pubs, increase the amount of beer to recycling from 28% to 63%.
The amount wehave brewed and has seen some of the of cooking oil we collected and sent for This year we plan to continue to support harshest winter weather for decades, all recycling as biofuel also rose by 24% to BBN and have committed to ensure that ofwhich have had an impact in our overall 1,106,000 litres.
allour pubs, where BBN schemes exist, energy consumption.
Despite that, we have have BBN accreditation.
So far we have still made good progress.
Responsible retailing 24managed pubs signed up and a further Enjoy Responsibly 125 of our managed pubs are also members Key achievements this year As part of our commitment to responsible of local Pubwatch schemes.
haveincluded: retailing, we have launched an Enjoy a reduction of 1.6% in the total amount Responsibly initiative to signpost our customers Dont drink and drive of CO emissions, notwithstanding an and consumers to our Enjoy Responsibly Hungry Horse and Pub Partners again 2 increase in energy usage: website www.
supported the Governments Christmas Thesite contains useful advice and anti-drink drive campaign with their a reduction of 7% in the amount of fuel information in an easily accessible and Designated Driver promotion.
Four of our used by company and leased vehicles: and non-judgmental way for anyone who pubs were involved inregional launches isconcerned about how much they are byMPs.
of the 25,000 tonnes of general waste drinking.
Our Enjoy Responsibly logo, weproduced, we recycled over 63% incorporating the websiteaddress, is being Safer by design 16,000 tonnes.
rolled out on allour bottles, cans, packs, Whilst alcohol related violence has fallen by menus and drinks promotions.
33% since 1997, there remain 87,000 violent Our progress incidents involving glasses each year.
Not only We actively seek to reduce our energy use Best Bar None does this impact on the victims but also on year on year.
However, last year we were Our pub, the Frog and Parrot, Sheffield, families and communities and reportedly faced with one of the coldest winters for wascrowned overall Best Bar None BBN costs the NHS 2.7 billion a year.
So, with an decades with heavy snow falls in November at a reception in the House of Lords earlier eye on both responsible retailing and customer and December and that, combined with an this year.
The award recognised the pub as safety we were delighted to be invited to take the most safe and responsible in the UK.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 27 business review corporate social responsibility continued toughened safety pint glass developed by Arc.
British Safety Council International Last year we donated 14,161 to The GREaT Safety Award for the third consecutive Foundation.
Formerly known as the The Ultimate glass is designed to be both very hard to break and, if it should year for Brewing and Brands at Bury Responsibility in Gambling Trust, the GREaT StEdmunds.
Foundation was established as a charity bebroken, to disintegrate into tiny cubes ofglass rendering it useless as a weapon.
in2002 as Britains largest funding body responsible for tackling problem gambling The glass, which has now been launched, British Safety Council International could help provide both a safer drinking Safety Award for Abingdon and through the funding of research, education and treatment from voluntary donations.
environment and a workable alternative Eastwood depots for the second toplastic glasses in outdoor settings.
Providing a positive The health and safety of our staff Safer drivers workingenvironment Our anonymous staff survey is an important andcustomers Some of our success in retaining the RoSPA Earlier this year, our Bury St Edmunds MORR award this year lies in our improved tool which enables us to test the temperature across the company and find out how our staff brewery became the first brewery to open driver training and assessment system.
All its doors to an unannounced audit by the new entrants to the business who are either feel about being part of our team.
This year around 50% of our 18,000 staff responded and British Retail Consortium.
The audit looked company car drivers, or are required to drive at the quality of our ingredients and how on company business, now go through driver shared their thoughts on roles, responsibilities, management, pay and benefits.
As a result of the visit training and assessment with Accufleet as part of their induction programme.
The the brewery was awarded a Grade A.
Our We measure our progress in this area using Belhaven brewery has since undergone the assessment helps drivers enhance their driving technique to improve road safety an employee engagement score which we same audit and here too we were awarded set at 3.
However, this year we changed our aGrade A. and fuel efficiency.
We have also extended this approach to our LGV drivers.
survey provider to OCR International and with it the method of assessing employee As part of our commitment to quality and Support for the communities engagement.
With their help we set specific tothe improvement of our environmental questions, with a proven link to engagement impact, we subject ourselves to rigorous inwhichweoperate Last year our managed pubs, hotels and benchmarked the overall rating with external auditing and are delighted that other retail businesses.
For this year our ourbrewing business has achieved the andrestaurants supported their local communities in a range of fundraising overall score was 67%, which compared ISO9001: 2008 and 14001: 2004 standards.
reasonably well to the retail benchmark These assurance standards reflect our activities raising over 280,000 for various local and national charities and appeals.
obsession with quality and offer another layer of reassurance to pubs about the OurLoch Fyne Restaurants raised an additional 4,600 during 2010 for their We have again this year offered all of our beerwe deliver to them.
18,000 staff the opportunity to participate national charity, the RNLI.
inour attractive share save scheme, which Other achievements in health and safety provides both an affordable savings scheme RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Our Brewing and Brands division held their first charity ball back in May 2010 as part and, at the end of the three or five-year term, Award for Brewing and Brands at Bury a stake in the company they work for.
St Edmunds for the seventh ofGreene Kings Real Food and Beer Festival in Bury St Edmunds.
celebrated community heroes, raised over 12,000 for EACH East Anglia Childrens RoSPA Managing Occupational Road Hospices and Focus 12.
Risk Award MORR Gold award for thefifth consecutive year.
Focus 12 changing lives Focus 12 is an independent charity Greene King helps with management providing treatment for clients with drug support, HR advice and fundraising events and alcohol dependency issues.
Based in that have allowed the charity to thrive in Bury St Edmunds, it is a 16 bed residential difficult times.
unit which combines the safety of a registered facility with enabling clients to live in small Commenting on Greene Kings involvement in independent living units that allow recovery the charity, Chip Sommers, said: Everyone at to be as real an experience as possible.
Focus 12 recognises the brave and unusual step taken by Greene King in supporting a Greene King has forged closer links with charity that deals withdependency.
This the charity over the past few years and is socially responsible approach is both described by the charity as being hugely welcomed and applauded by all involved influential in assisting the charity to with our services.
survive the enormous changes taking place in all areas of Social Care.
Financial pressures affect all small charities and Focus 12 is indebted to the help provided by Greene King.
28 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Business review Retaining, developing and attracting This year twelve of our business development talent with fair and rewarding terms managers began the first stage of the new andconditions Greene King BDM Post Graduate Diploma Recruitment is a key area for our business with Birmingham City Business School.
tohelp ensure we have the right people to Theprogramme, which focuses on deliver our vision.
This year we entered into multi-site leadership, will take twelve a partnership with Job Centre UK to offer months to complete.
More of our business job trials to people considering a career in development managers will begin the one of our businesses.
Greene King is proud programme in October.
to be BACKING YOUNG BRITAIN the campaign to encourage businesses to provide Support for our tenants more opportunities for young people through Pub Partners, our tenanted and leased jobs, apprenticeships and work experience.
business, prides itself on working in partnership with our licensees and over In our Local Pubs division, the work trial thepast year has developed a range of new scheme which gives people who havent ways of working and agreements designed thought of working in a pub a chance to try to find the best fit for each of our licensees.
before they buy, has seen 16 people who signed up through job centres offered jobs.
As part of our commitment to ensure newlicensees have the best chance of More recently the Government has success, we now insist that all new licensees launched a new apprenticeship scheme attend three mandatory training courses which Greene King has signed up to.
Over prior to them taking a pub in our core 300 of our employees have already applied estate.
The courses are Go for Growth for apprenticeships with us and of those 238 Induction, Cellar Management and have now started their training programmes.
Finance, all of which are designed to lay The remainder are going through the induction quality foundations on which new licensees stage.
At the end of the apprenticeships our can build their own business from day one.
team members will have a nationally recognised qualification, either Level 2 In response to the parliamentary enquiry Hospitality Services or Level 2 Kitchen last year into tenanted and leased pub Services.
Our aim is that all of our full companies, all industry players were timeteam members hold this encouraged to introduce new Codes of .
Practice to ensure that their licensees clearly understood what to expect when Building on the success of this scheme they took on a pub.
Pub Partners quickly weplan over the next year to launch an rose to the challenge and produced a new advanced apprenticeship for supervisory code which swiftly gained British Institute and management teams that will lead to of Innkeepers BII accreditation.
The Code nationally recognised qualifications in is now in force across most of our tenanted teamleading and management.
Franchise innovation gives licensees choice and certainty Pub Partners has launched a franchise-style David said: This is fantastic as it allows agreement following a highly successful you to walk straight into a pub and operate trial in nine pubs.
The concept will be it successfully.
You complete the training rolled out across 50 pubs within the leased and follow the operating procedures and and tenanted business over the next year you have a busy pub.
Everything has been and focuses on community town and developed to serve the community market.
suburban sites with growth potential.
Its operating your own business within a certain framework thats not restrictive but Developed around franchise principles gives you the support you need so the pub theconcept provides a proven pub package remains successful.
based on our extensive retail know how and gives entrepreneurs a platform from which to grow a successful business with guaranteed returns.
David Knott and Robert Lamb, licensees atthe Orange Tree in Braintree, were the first to trial the franchise agreement.
Sinceconversion, the site has seen sales grow from 2.7k to over 10k net per week.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 29 business review c page heading orporate social responsibility continued KPIs Priority Progress We set a target of a 2.5% reduction on a like for like basis and achieved a reduction of A reduction in CO emissions in our 2 2.4%despite one of the coldest winters for decades with heavy snow in November and existing estate of breweries, offices and December which increased our use of gas in order to heat our pubs, restaurants and hotels.
managed houses on a like for like basis.
Going forward we have set a target to further reduce our emissions next year by 4%.
We are working on our target that 80% of waste generated in our managed houses should A reduction in the amount of waste not be sent to landfill by the end of calendar year 2011.
Work is continuing on this challenging sent tolandfill.
target and at the end of the first quarter of this year we were recycling 28% of our waste.
A reduction in water usage in our Over the past year we have achieved a reduction of 1.5% in our breweries and offices onalike for like basis.
We had set ourselves a target to install AMR meters across the existing estate of breweries, offices and managed estate and set reduction targets for 2011 12.
Unfortunately, a technical issue managed houses on a like for like basis.
ledthe manufacturer to withdraw the meters which meant we were unable to achieve this target.
However, once the technical issues are resolved, we will install the meters asplanned.
An improvement in employee This year we changed our survey provider to OCR International and with it the methodof assessing employee engagement.
With their help we have set specific engagement demonstrated by our questions, with a proven link to engagement and benchmarked the overall rating with annual attitude survey.
For this year, our overall score was 67% compared to the retail benchmark of 74%.
Whilst we are pleased with the comparison to retail and with the score for our second year on a like for like basis, this is below our target of 74%.
The provision of more information and We challenged ourselves to extend our nutritional database across our estate to include our local pub menus which we have done.
In addition to this nutritional information, choice for our customers to support a wenow also provide allergen information on all core menu items.
healthy and balanced diet and support theFSAs principles on healthy eating.
The provision, on all our childrens We pledged to increase the range of healthier items on the childrens menu and change the 7-10 years section to a pick and mix style to provide more choice for healthier options menus, of a choice of healthier meals, which we have done.
which are lower in fat and contain aportion of vegetables.
Our target last year was to look at developing software to help our staff spot anyone trying Compliance with our Challenge 21 to buy alcohol underage.
We have worked with suppliers to develop and implement new policy in all our managed houses.
software which not only prompts the bar tender to confirm on every transaction that the customer is over 18 but also now displays a date of birth 18 years ago so staff cansee at a glance if someone is old enough.
Going forward we are looking at further training for bar staff, possibly as part of an e-learning package.
As part of our integration of our Belhaven business we are currently reviewing our systems in Scotland.
The introduction of measures to reduce Last year we commissioned 104 independent test purchases in 51 of our managed pubs, thus meeting the target we set.
For any that failed we introduced further training and the risk of underage drinking taking additional test purchases to ensure compliance.
place in Greene King managed houses.
We set a target of carrying out specialist third-party fire risk assessments in all of our Continually strive to identify and managed houses and that any works required should be scheduled for completion reduce health and safety risks and to according to risk.
The risk assessments have been carried out and the process of improve the safety of our premises.
completing any necessary works begun.
We have also worked on driving compliance in hygiene standards and procedures with the result that our third party hygiene audit scores have improved and the average score of our businesses is up by over 4%.
30 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk B Business r usiness re evie view w Removing trans-fats Salt targets Current year We commit to the Governments salt We will remove trans-fats from our products by the end of 2011. targets for the end of 2012. priorities In addition to continuing our work on our established priorities, we have also set Prevent underage drinking ourselves some new Responsible retailing In local communities we will provide We commit to ensuring effective action is prioritiesin line with our taken in all premises to reduce and prevent support for schemes appropriate for local PHRD commitments.
areas that wish to use them to address underage sales of alcohol primarily through rigorous application of Challenge 21 issues around social and health harms, andwill act together toimprove joined up andChallenge 25. working between schemes operating in local areas.
Our priorities for this year are: Reduce water usage Reduce CO2 A reduction in CO emissions in our A reduction in water usage in our existing 2 estate of breweries, offices and managed existing estate of breweries, offices and managed houses on a like for like basis houses on a like for like basis with a targetthis year of installing meters with a target of a 4% reduction for the next financial year.
acrossour managed houses and setting reduction targets.
Reduce waste Improve employee engagement A reduction in the amount of waste sent to An improvement in employee engagement demonstrated by our annual attitude landfill with a target of ensuring that 80% of waste generated in our managed houses survey with a target to achieve 74% engagement across our teams.
is not sent to landfill by the end of the calendar year 2011.
Increase physical activity Health and wellbeing of employees We will increase physical activity in the We will include a section on health and wellbeing of employees within annual workplace, for example through modifying the environment, promoting workplace reports and or websites.
This should include staff sickness absence rate.
champions and removing barriers to physical activityduring the working day.
Healthy staff restaurants Health and safety We will implement some basic measures We will continually strive to identify for encouraging healthier staff andreduce health and safety risks and restaurants vending outlets buffets.
toimprove the safety of our premises.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 31
