17 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Social Responsibility 8,000 breakfasts served every day in our Breakfast Clubs.
A record 1 million raised for BBC Children in Need in 2011.
35% reduction in salt and 17% in fat in our core confectionery lines.
Our overall carbon footprint reduced by 5.6%.
Our approach to Social Responsibility Greggs is a growing company defining our responsibilities under that has always cared about four key pillars Community: doing the right thing for People: Food & Nutrition and our local communities, our Environment.
people, our customers and for The Steering Group, chaired our environment.
Our values by the Company Secretary and underpin our approach to social General Counsel, comprises four responsibility and help us run members of the Operating Board our business in a safe and plus the Chief Executive and the responsible way.
The The Board is accountable for Steering Group meets quarterly social responsibility, and the Chief and is responsible for overseeing Executive is ultimately responsible the delivery of our annual social for the delivery of our commitments responsibility targets.
In 2008 we established a Steering Group to effectively manage and embed social responsibility within our business, 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Greggs Chief Executive, Kennedy McMeikan visiting a Greggs Breakfast Club.
Making a difference to our local communities.
conference for our Regional Charity with our people and customers Progress against our Committees in 2011 to encourage encouraged to nominate local 2011 targets our people to do even more for causes to receive support.
We were delighted to have raised such our local communities.
Extend the Greggs Breakfast a significant amount of money for In 2011 we donated a total of Club scheme to 180 the Foundation.
650,000 to the grant-making supported clubs.
and Breakfast Club programmes For the sixth year running we will By the end of the year a total of of our Foundation, representing engage our staff and customers 180 Breakfast Clubs were open, 1.2 per cent of pre-tax profits.
We in a major national fundraising with 14 of these now operating held our Foundation Conference campaign to support the under our partnership model with at the beginning of February BBC Children in Need appeal.
In total 8,000 2012 after deciding this was the children benefit each day from 2011 was another record year of most appropriate date.
We were the clubs that is over 1.4 million fundraising by Greggs.
We raised overwhelmed by the enthusiasm healthy breakfasts each year an amazing 1,001,052 for BBC of our people to do even more to and over 500 parent volunteers Children in Need.
This takes our support our local communities in help run clubs.
We made a specific total raised to over 3 million in the year ahead.
mid-year commitment to support the last four years and we are the areas of London, Birmingham, the second largest corporate Hold our second national Manchester and Liverpool fundraiser.
The immense sense of fundraising week for Greggs affected by the recent riots, and pride and achievement at raising Foundation in 2011 with the aim five of our new clubs were opened such a phenomenal amount of of raising over 70,000. in these areas.
money for BBC Children in Need We ran a very successful was simply fantastic.
Donate at least one per cent of campaign, raising 83,400.
All of profits to the grant-making and this money went to support smaller, Support Greggs-sponsored fun Breakfast Club programmes locally-based organisations in the runs and another Great Bakery of Greggs Foundation.
Hold a communities served by our shops, Bike Ride to help more of our 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 people to fundraise through personal and professional customers in a major national exercise-related activities.
development opportunities for fundraising campaign to our Greggs volunteers and a support the BBC Children in We continued our support of the great understanding of some Need appeal.
Greggs North East Childrens of the issues facing our local Deliver a multi-sports Cancer Run, which has now communities.
programme into 20 primary raised over 5 million since 1983. schools to promote healthy In 2011 the North East Childrens exercise.
Support the 30th North Cancer Run raised 195,000.
We Our targets for 2012 East Childrens Cancer Run to also ran Bakery Bike Rides in our Extend the Greggs Breakfast help raise 300,000 in 2012. regions in support of the Greggs Club scheme to a total number of Foundation fundraising week.
Continue our work on initiatives 220 clubs.
to help break the cycle of Divert an increasing proportion Donate at least one per cent of unemployment amongst the of our fresh, unsold food to profits to the grant-making and young and those in marginalised good causes.
Breakfast Club programmes groups in our communities by: of Greggs Foundation and We now work with regional increasing our investment encourage our people to do even FareShare organisations in by 100,000 to help tackle more for our local communities.
London, Birmingham, Manchester, youth unemployment Newcastle, Edinburgh and Hold our third national Dundee, donating unsold food for providing more than 100 fundraising week for Greggs distribution to groups in need.
placements in 2012 Foundation with the aim of raising 100,000 to support providing training and Continue to roll out initiatives good causes.
mentoring to prepare people to help break the cycle of For the seventh year running we for the world of work.
unemployment for marginalised will engage our staff and groups in our communities, utilising our skills as a major employer.
Over 3m raised In 2011 we have made significant progress in our work with Business for BBC Children in Need Action on Homelessness BAOH through the Cyrenians.
56 people have now come through this in the last 4 years.
programme in the North East with six people participating in the Greggs BAOH programme in 2011.
We are really proud that of these, four have now secured employment, three with us and one with the Cyrenians.
Our People Director sits on the Leadership team of the National Employers Forum to Reduce Reoffending and we have a number of ongoing projects to assist in this agenda by both preparing people for work and providing job opportunities and placements within Greggs.
Working in these partnerships provides support in a variety of ways, through training, mentoring, placement opportunities and employment opportunities.
They also provide Fundraising for BBC Children in Need.
20 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 A great place to work.
We will focus on communication for This misses our target of Progress against our our people and our targets will be: 65 per cent, but is an improvement 2011 targets on the 51 per cent scored in 2010.
More than 65 per cent of our Our retail teams scored 81 per cent people feel they have the We will continue to share opportunity to contribute their and our Head Office teams scored 80 10 per cent of our profits with views on issues that affect them.
In 2012 we will increase our our people.
focus on improving communication More than 65 per cent of our within our supply teams.
supply teams feel that their line We are proud that we have been manager supervisor shares able to continue our long-standing We will create over 700 new important knowledge and commitment to share 10 per cent retail jobs through our new information with them.
7 of our profits with our people and shop opening programme.
a record 5.9 million will be shared Our EOS results show that In 2011 we opened a net 84 new amongst eligible employees in 64 per cent of our workforce feel shops around the UK, creating respect of 2011. they have the opportunity to over 800 new retail jobs for people contribute their views.
Our retail In our EOS survey our in our local communities.
teams achieved 66 per cent and our engagement score will Head Office teams 70 per cent.
We We will reduce our accidents improve to at least 73 per cent.
achieved 53 per cent in our supply by 5 per cent from our Accident chain and this will be our main area In our Employee Opinion Survey Incident Rate of 2010. of focus in 2012.
While missing our EOS our engagement score overall target, this is a significant By delivering a simpler, more improved to 77 per cent, up improvement on the 58 per cent easily understood approach to from 72 per cent in 2010.
In 2012 we will focus safety, involving all levels within extremely pleased with this result on increasing the opportunities our the business, we are pleased that and we thank the 89 per cent of people have to contribute their views.
reportable accidents have been our people who took the time to reduced by 27 per cent.
This was complete our EOS.
In 2011, 56 per cent of our an excellent achievement and a supply teams felt that important credit to our Health and Safety knowledge and information about the business is shared with them.
21 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 10% of our profits shared with our employees once again.
We will recruit and develop 10 - 15 increasing by 50 per cent the Our targets for 2012 new Bakery Apprentices in 2011. number of retail units achieving our top health and safety rating.
We will aim to create a further We operate a Bakery Apprentice 800 new retail jobs through To enhance the skills of our people Programme and have provided our shop opening programme.
and benefit our communities we training and career development will continue to encourage our 650 for ten young people in 2011.
We will continue to share 10 per graded managers to commit to cent of our profits with our people.
To enhance the skills of our people using one working day to volunteer and benefit our communities we In our EOS survey, our their skills and expertise in 2012 to will encourage our 650 graded engagement score will improve support a local community-based managers to commit to using to at least 78 per cent.
one working day to volunteer their We will focus on communication Improve the diversity of our skills and expertise in 2011 to with our people, and our targets people by: support a local community-based will be: or environmental project.
ensuring that we recruit from more than 65 per cent of a wide pool of talent that is The introduction of this programme our people feel they have reflective of our local community was delayed until 2012.
During the opportunity to contribute around main office locations in 2011 we continued to provide their views on issues that the North East of England our people with paid time away affect them delivering a roadshow from work to volunteer and over more than 65 per cent of our highlighting our development 250 working days were spent supply teams feel that their programmes, career volunteering by our people, line manager supervisor progression and role models benefiting our local communities.
shares important knowledge to encourage more women and information with them.
to progress into senior roles throughout Greggs.
We will improve our health and safety performance through: reducing our accidents by a further 5 per cent from our Accident Incident Rate of 2011.
22 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Fresh quality bakery food our customers can trust.
already meeting the FSAs Continue to remove the Progress against our 2012 target for salt in bread.
last artificial flavours from 2011 targets We have also reduced the salt the range of products we content of our core confectionery make ourselves.
Provide nutritional information lines by 35 per cent.
This work for our full national range.
Work has continued to remove has been done without adversely affecting the taste the artificial flavours from the few We have published detailed or quality of our products and remaining products containing nutritional information on our our work in 2012 will continue them.
While the work was not national range of products to focus on our sandwich and completed in 2011, we fully expect using in-store leaflets and our savoury lines.
this to be completed in 2012, again website.
Customers can also ensuring that we do not adversely telephone our customer Continue to reduce fat content affect the taste and quality our contact team to request without compromising the customers expect from Greggs.
nutritional information on any great taste and quality of our products including of our food.
Collate our approach to regional and local products.
ethical sourcing into a formal, In addition to the salt reduction defined policy.
work on our core confectionery Continue to reduce salt content, lines, we have also successfully working towards the Food In 2011 we defined our stance reduced the fat content in these Standards Agency and Department on ethical sourcing in a formal products by 17 per cent.
of Health 2012 targets, without policy covering the specific areas Again this work has been compromising the great taste of Relationships with Suppliers, done without adversely and quality of our food.
Local Sourcing, Quality, Animal affecting the taste and quality Our work continues in this area and of the products and our work Welfare, Ethics, Environment we are pleased that, for our core in 2012 will continue to and People.
bread products, we have reduced focus on our sandwich and the salt content by 19 per cent, savoury lines.
23 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 We provide nutritional information for our full national range.
Promote better understanding Our targets for 2012 of balanced diets.
Keep up-to-date nutritional information available for customers on: We continued our work with ExpoChef in 2011, working with our evolving national range over 7,000 primary school children our key local lines.
to promote a better understanding Continue to reduce salt content, working towards the FSA DoH 2012 of food and the need for a targets, without compromising the great taste and quality of our food, balanced diet as part of a healthy with particular emphasis on: lifestyle - since 2010 over 10,500 children have benefited from our savouries partnership with ExpoChef.
We also partnered with Newcastle Continue to reduce fat content through recipe improvement without Eagles Foundation to deliver compromising the great taste and quality of our food, with particular a healthy diet and lifestyle emphasis on: message to over 800 primary savouries school children, while our football sandwiches.
festivals with Newcastle United Foundation Complete Football Remove the last artificial flavours from our savoury range without delivered a similar lifestyle and compromising their great taste and quality.
exercise programme for 27 primary schools across the Undertake and evaluate a significant trial to display calorie information North East region.
on shelf edge ticketing for the entire range.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Reducing our impact on the world around us.
the proportion of our waste going Progress against our Our targets for 2012 to landfill and we are pleased to We will continue to target a 25 2011 targets report that in 2011 we successfully per cent reduction in our carbon diverted an additional 29 per cent Achieve a 5 per cent reduction footprint by 2015 measured of waste from landfill.
We now on our 2010 carbon footprint in tonnes of CO2e per shop divert 75 per cent of our waste measured in tonnes of CO2e by building on our 5.6 per cent away from landfill, a significant per shop, as part of our target reduction in 2011. achievement compared to of 25 per cent reduction per 2009 16 per cent and 2010 Achieve a reduction in total shop by the end of 2015.
energy usage measured in tonnes of CO2e per shop of: A range of efficiency work Reduce our bakery waste by across our shops, bakeries and 3 per cent in bakeries 5 per cent on a per shop basis.
distribution fleet has successfully 1.5 per cent in shops.
reduced our overall footprint In terms of reducing production We will divert an additional 5 tonnes of carbon per shop by 5.6 waste, we are pleased with our per cent of waste from landfill per cent this year.
progress in 2011, and while there is in 2012, building on the 75 per room for further improvement, we Achieve a 3 per cent reduction in cent of waste currently diverted have successfully reduced bakery total energy usage in our shops in 2011. waste on a per shop basis by and bakeries measured in 17 per cent.
Achieve an additional 1.5 tonnes of CO2e per shop.
per cent reduction in carbon We will trial an electric car generated by our distribution We are pleased to report that our for six months to get a better activity measured in tonnes energy efficiency work across retail understanding of how this of CO2e per KM per shop as and supply has delivered a 3.8 per could help reduce our future cent reduction in carbon per shop, part of a three-year 6 per cent carbon footprint.
against a target of 3 per cent.
During 2011 we trialled a Nissan We will support the Rivers Trusts Achieve a 2.5 per cent reduction LEAF electric car and feedback in Wales through the donation over the next three years in carbon was positive although concerns of the revenues raised from the generated by our distribution remain over the range of the Welsh carrier bag charge.
activity measured in tonnes of vehicle.
The findings will help us CO2e per KM per shop.
to further revise and shape our car policy when electric vehicles go Trials of the latest vehicle into mass production in the future.
telematics system and a dedicated fuel efficiency training programme, We will explore involvement coupled with ongoing fleet with the Rivers Trust to investigate efficiency work, has enabled us to ways in which we can support meet our 3-year reduction target improvements in the on distribution fleet carbon in a environment.
Against a 2.5 per cent reduction target, we reduced our We have investigated ways in carbon tonnes per KM per shop which we can work with the by 6.2 per cent.
individual Rivers Trusts, and plans are now in place to offer We will divert an additional volunteering opportunities as part 10 per cent of waste from of our volunteering programme landfill in 2011. in 2012.
We have worked hard over the last two years to significantly reduce 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Re-opening of our Colchester shops, following a refit.
Recognition The Greggs Foundation Greggs is a member of received recognition as the FTSE4Good Corporate Foundation sustainability index.
of the Year at the 2011 Business Charity Awards, Greggs took part in the praised for its localness, the Business in the Community engagement of staff and the Corporate Responsibility fabulous neighbourhood Index for the first time in charitable activity.
We continued our involvement in 2011 and Greggs Finance Director achieved a bronze award.
Richard Hutton was presented with the Sustainable Business Award at the FDs Excellence Awards 2011.
Greggs is a contributor to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
