22 Business Review People and Culture Delivering on helpful Our brand and values serve the Group both internally and At a time of economic and household income pressures we were externally.
With over 109 years of heritage our brand, which seen as been judged on price not on value, there was a low began as being associated with bikes, has progressed to be awareness of the value add services that made us different to synonymous as broader trusted retailer.
Past research has other retailers and with the launch of Halfords Autocentres we identified the Group has having the following characteristics: were not building on consumer loyalty across a portfolio of products and services that had never been wider.
Offering a unique combination of products The idea for a new campaign came from customers.
1 in a number of its core categories and being the showed they think we are helpful.
Its also the principle reason destination of choice for many markets customers give when they recommend us to their friends.
So our Within this offering Halfords and its colleagues have always gone new campaign speaks about one of our main strengths.
the extra mile for our customers and this has created an This is the start of a new era for Halfords, because we are giving environment in which store colleagues are always keen to help a public commitment to being helpful.
And while helping is our customers to fulfil their purchase and service needs.
strength, customer feedback also throws up a lot of examples of The We go the extra mile philosophy was delivered by where we have fallen short of peoples expectations - in part colleagues offering their help and creating an expectation of because they expect so much from us!
So we do need to service from the customer, however when questioned not many redouble our commitment to understanding what customers customers were aware of the full range of products and services need and ensure we deliver helpful consistently for them.
We must also be focused on helping our front line colleagues.
Ultimately, helpful is delivered in store, but that can only happen if During 2011 we commissioned our advertising agency, to we give our store colleagues all the support they need the develop a new campaign, based on new market research.
This products, the availability, the appreciation, the information.
research confirmed the need for Halfords to focus on points of differentiation, which were not being acknowledged by our thats helpful thats halfords will make a major difference for our customers.
business and help us achieve our commercial goals.
It will encourage customers to be more loyal, recommend Halfords to their friends and these actions will drive footfall and sales.
We will be a very different and better company.
Theres been a lot of hard work and preparation getting us to this point.
Each and every one of Halfords colleagues now has the chance to take helpful to the next stage making it a living, breathing part of our business.
In delivering helpful we will be in tune with our customers needs, make their, and our lives easier, continue to go the extra mile for our customers and use all our expertise to be helpful as we go public with our commitment.
What Customers want What we do helpful 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 23 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Customer Response Dear Halfords I am sending you this email to express my extreme fitted these for me - and again found that another part satisfaction with the service that I have received from your number aero bars shown by Thule was incorrect as they Northallerton, North Yorkshire branch.
Working in the retail food industry, high levels of customer I now have a perfect solution that is 100% correct and I service are high on my agenda seven days a week.
responsible for nearly 800 food stores and spend much of The standard of customer care shown by Guy, Lee and his my time encouraging great customer care.
colleague - name unknown as they were wearing orange A few weeks ago I took delivery of a new E Class fluorescent jackets to keep dry in the heavy rain that did Mercedes Coupe and called into the store to buy a Thule not deter them.
roof rack system and bike carriers.
The problem that I When the job was completed, I offered them 10 to buy a encountered was that having the model with a panoramic drink and Lee very politely declined saying that it was glass sun roof, that when open lifts - the standard Thule company policy.
kit for the coupe was not suitable.
The store manager Guy spoke with Thule and called me back to advise that they Your team really went the extra mile, and this is certainly did not make a suitable kit for my car.
This was despite the not the first time that my wife and I have had exceptional Thule website indicating that they did - but showing service from the branch, they are a credit to your incorrect part numbers - that would not give sufficient company.
clearance for the roof to open.
Sincerely I returned to the store and one of the team - Lee set to John and was determined to solve this issue.
The relevant parts Northallerton were duly ordered and last Saturday Lee and a colleague Dear Halfords I felt I had to write to you and congratulate you on your excellent service.
I visited your Livingston, West Lothian, store this morning and could not have been treated any better.
I wanted a car seat for my grand daughter and the assistant, Heather, who attended to me gave me all the help and advice I needed.
She explained all about the ISOFIX and even came out to my car to look and see if I had it!!!
She then Mobile News did a mystery shop of 5 shops T Mobile, 02, brought the seat out and showed me exactly how to Carphone Warehouse, Orange and Halfords Warrington asking slip it into position.
I will most certainly be for a fully fitted car kit for handsfree calling.
Halfords came out recommending you and thank you very much indeed top by a long way with the reviewer writing: Halfords was the for your help.
clear winner, combining available product with great service and a good demonstration.
It is so nice to walk out of a shop nowadays and be able to tell people how well you were treated and The other was a blogger write up on The Baby Website, who made to feel as if it mattered to the staff that you had gone into Halfords Aylesbury to have baby seats fitted for were happy - Halfords certainly managed this today.
Aaron did a great job of putting the I am very happy.
customer at ease and finding out exactly what she wanted.
Winnie Smith Mrs Halfords Customer Service West Lothian Redditch 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 24 Business Review David Wild Chief Executive Our ongoing focus is to offer great value to our customers through the quality and price of our products and the expertise and service of our colleagues.
Use your phones bar code app and go directly to the relevant page on our website.
com ceo Go 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 25 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Business Review Performance Chief Executives Review 26 Finance Directors Report 32 Risks and Uncertainties 38 18559 04 05 2011 Proof 1 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
