Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42 Directors Report Business Review We recognise major risks and uncertainties facing us and take action to identify, manage and mitigate them Description Mitigation Operational Risk Our key means of risk control is the choice of the markets in which we operate and the We seek to continuously grow our profits, generating people and methods we use to exploit those market opportunities.
Our choice is to a high return for shareholders overthe long term operatein the safety products and health-related technology markets which we consider within a clear strategic framework.
We view risk to be robust over the long term.
Our products are predominantly critical components or within the context ofthis objective as well as in instruments which are warranted as t for the purpose rather than systems or intangible absolute terms.
In any business the inherent risks products where satisfactory performance is contingent upon third parties.
We invest that are anintegral component of business activities heavily in identifying, recruiting and training talented people who are able to manage must be identied, managed and mitigated.
therisks we face while delivering the excellent results we require.
We do not place undue Weperceive our primary operational risks to reliance on any one Group company nor does any one Group company rely heavily on emanate from remoteness of operation and the onecustomer, supplier or transaction.
We always seek to spread our risks.
We have actions and quality of our employees.
processes in place to ensure any major transactions are reviewed at the appropriate level.
Organic Growth, Supplier Risk and Competition Our focus on investing in management development, innovation and international growth The Group faces competition in the form of pricing, is a direct result of assessing these risks.
We aim to manage the risk of timing and quality service, reliability and substitution.
We rely on high of component supply by dual sourcing and long-standing working relationships.
By quality supply from our partners.
These constitute empowering and resourcing local operations to respond to changing market needs, the anongoing potential threat to our growth.
potential adverse impact of downward price pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, we are better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
Research and Development R&D is of necessity a risky activity but by devolving control of product development into New products are critical to our organic growth the autonomous operating businesses, we spread the risk and ensure that the resource andunderpin our ability to earn high margins isas close to the customer as possible.
New product development best practice is andhigh returns over the long term.
shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is tracked monthly.
Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Ofce approval.
Intangible Resources The main intangible resources which deliver competitive advantage and which support Our businesses build competitive advantage our strategic objectives are: the patents and trademarks which protect our products: our and strengthen barriers to entry in many ways employees, whose understanding of our technology, customers needs and the dynamics including patents, product approvals, technical of the markets we operate in, enable us to maintain leadership in many markets: and the innovation, product quality, customer service enviable reputation enjoyed by our brands for superior product quality and market leading levelsand branding.
We look for these qualities customer support.
Whilst no single product or process is critical to the Group as a whole, inthebusinesses we seek to acquire.
Protection all appropriate actions are taken to protect our intellectual property rights.
With our ofourintellectual property is important to our development activity increasing in emerging economies we will often segregate the continued success.
elements of a project to protect the know how.
Laws and Regulations All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices, Group operations are subject to wide-ranging including the need to report any major legal or contractual risks.
The Groups laws and regulations including business conduct, emphasison excellent financial control, the deployment of high quality management employment, environmental and health and safety resource andstrong focus on quality control over products and processes in each legislation.
There is also exposure to product operating business helps to protect us from product failure, litigation and contractual litigation and contractual risk.
Eachoperating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance andour performance in this area is excellent.
Updated Health and Safety policies andguidance were issued in the year, with enhanced monthly reporting.
Wecarrycomprehensive insurance against all standard categories of insurable risk.
Contractreview and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
Ourwell established policies on bribery and corruption continue to be updated to  with best practice.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Description Mitigation Acquisitions We pay sensible multiples for businesses whose technology and markets we know well.
The identication and purchase of businesses which Divisional Chief Executives are responsible for nding and completing acquisitions in their meet our demanding financial and growth criteria is business sectors subject to Board approval.
We support them with central resources an important part of our strategy for developing the tosearch for opportunities and assist with implementation of a post-acquisition plan.
Group, as is ensuring the new businesses are rapidly Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
Information Technology Business Interruption There is substantial redundancy and back up built into any Group-wide systems.
The Group and operational management depend on spread of business offers good protection from individual events and disaster recovery timely and reliable information from our software plans are widespread.
We have a small central resource available, Halma IT Services, systems.
We seek to ensure continuous availability toassist Group companies with any major IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security and operation of those systems as disruption could policies are set across the Group.
We carry out regular IT audits across the Group.
delay or impact on decision making and service Thisyear we have increased external penetration testing and are rolling out a centralised toour customers.
IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes.
Financial Irregularities and International Expansion The Group ensures that there is adequate local management and financial resource in Our objective is to grow our business across the each operational location ensuring they are adequately trained in financial matters whilst world and to export outside of developed markets maintaining a culture of openness to promote disclosure.
Responsibility for remote and particularly in Asia.
This presents both operating operations rests with operational management in the sponsoring company who supervise and cultural risks.
We recognise that the size and closely and visit frequently.
Group companies operate a common set of reporting remoteness of some operations may not permit procedures and accounting policies, disseminated via the Group intranet.
Internal Audit fullsegregation of duties and that Internal and regularly reviews operations and we appointed a new Internal Auditor in China this year.
External Audit procedures may not always identify anancial irregularity.
Cash The strong cash ow generated by the Group provides financial exibility.
Cash needs For any business a key risk is that it will run out of aremonitored regularly.
In addition to short-term overdraft facilities the Group holds a cash or have inadequate access to cash.
In addition, five-year revolving credit facility, renewable in February 2013, which provides sufficient cash deposits need to be held in a secure form headroom for its needs.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst orlocation.
anumber of highly rated banks.
Treasury Risks The Group does not use complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative Foreign currency risk is the most significant treasury treasury transactions are undertaken.
Currency profits are not hedged.
Currency related risk for the Group.
In times of increased hedgingmust t with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a volatility this can have a significant impact on hedging strategy to manage Group exposures.
This requires the hedgingof a substantial performance.
The Sterling value of overseas profit proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months ahead.
Longer term currency earned during the year is sensitive to the strength trends can only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
We closely ofSterling, particularly against the US Dollar and monitor performance against the financial covenants onour revolving credit facility and theEuro.
The Group is exposed to a lesser extent to are operating well within these covenants.
other treasury risks such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Economic Conditions We manage such risks primarily at local company level where they are best understood In times of uncertain economic conditions and where we are closest to the markets and our customers.
The financial strength, businesses face additional or elevated levels of risk.
availability of finance and diversity of the Group provides mitigation to much of this risk.
These include market and customer risk, customer We operate robust credit management at each operating company.
Each business default, fraud, supply chain risk and liquidity risk.
regularly undertakes a close examination of its cost structure to determine that it is appropriate to the economic circumstances it faces.
High quality subsidiary boards provide close monitoring of operations whilst the Halma Executive Board identies any wider trends which require action.
Pension deficit There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Monitoring the funding needs of the Groups pension Halma Board agenda item.
The Groups strong cash ows and access to adequate plans is essential to funding our pension obligations borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can be adequately managed.
Our UK dened benefit pension plans has increased pension contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit in areclosed to new members.
line with the Actuarys recommendations.
We monitor and consider alternative means ofreducing our pension risk in light of the best long-term interest for shareholders.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 44 Directors Report Business Review Achievements KPIs We deliver sustainable value to our customers and shareholders.
Non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs are used by the Board to monitor progress on Group initiatives: financial KPIs are considered on pages 8 to 11.
Halmas carbon policy was first approved by the Board in 2007.
CO2 emissions: tonnes m of revenue In2010 the policy target was reviewed and continues to call for 46 47 44 44 46 10% reduction a10% reduction in the carbon footprint everythree years.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Group target Good progress with new initiatives now launched particularly intheUK.
Prior year gures restated to reect current carbon conversion rates.
Halma conducts an annual survey of its employees to assess how Values alignment well the Groups values are aligned with its employees and how 5 5 5 well the Group communicates its values to employees.
2011 2010 Group target Survey of senior managers matched the target of five of their desired values being present in our business culture.
The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP and the Subsidiary directors managers who had completed Halma Management Development Programme HMDP provide HEDP HMDP by March 2011 executives and middle managers with the necessary skills they 71% 67% 50% needin their current and future roles.
2011 2010 Group target Continued commitment to training our people.
Development Programmes, but also environmental impact.
Our strategy is not Governance and commitment to through clear leadership and decisive tohave capital-intensive manufacturing Corporate Responsibility action.
By ensuring that our team has the processes, so the environmental impact As Halma companies are involved in the approach and skills required to succeed ofour operations is relatively low compared manufacture of a wide range of products for weare better placed to meet the challenges to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also the protection and improvement to quality of the future.
recognise that we can improve our own of life for people worldwide, safety is critical environmental performance and so to the Group and is a major priority for We recognise the necessity of safeguarding resources are deployed to actively reduce management.
Likewise, the reduction of the health and safety of our own employees our own carbon footprint.
theGroups carbon footprint has received whilst at work and operate so as to elevated attention since 2007 with the initial provideasafe and comfortable working Halma has been a member of the objective of a 10% reduction in relative environment for employees, visitors and FTSE4Good UK index since its carbon usage in the three years to March thepublic.
Our policy is to manage our establishment in July 2001.
2010 and over the subsequent three years activities to avoid causing any unnecessary A summary of our progress and toMarch 2013. or unacceptable risks to health and safety performance for all areas of corporate and the environment.
We have an excellent responsibility follows.
Halma has developed Our core values are Achievement, long-term record for addressing meaningful key performance indicators Innovation, Empowerment and Customer environmental issues that affect our KPIs that reect the importance the Satisfaction.
These core values have been businesses and for developing products Groupplaces on corporate responsibility selected following extensive surveying of thatprotect the environment and improve and enable the Board to monitor the Groups employees across the Group.
Our culture safety at work and in public places.
progress in meeting its objectives and isone of openness, integrity and Many of our innovative products play a very responsibilities in these areas.
We encourage our positive role in monitoring and improving employees to act fairly in their dealings Halma has an excellent health and safety the environment.
Our brands lead the world withfellow employees, customers, record and a culture of safety is deeply in a number of technologies which help to suppliers and business partners.
We embedded within the Group.
We will minimise environmental damage.
recognise that our employees determine continue to actively promote our safety our success and therefore have invested We support the concept of sustainability culture over the coming year following a inand encouraged their development more andrecognise that, in common with major update and relaunch of our internal this year than ever before, not only with allbusinesses, our activities have an Health and Safety policy and guidance.
ourintranet training facilities and Halma Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Environmental management system FTSE4Good has assessed Halma as Halma and the environment We are committed to developing and havinga low impact on the environment.
We have an excellent long-term record implementing an environmental Nevertheless, Group companies are anda clear strategy for addressing management system EMS throughout encouraged to improve energy efficiency, environmental issues that affect our theGroup to measure, control and, where reduce waste and emissions and reduce businesses and for developing products that practical, reduce our environmental theuse of materials in order to minimise protect the environment and improve safety impacts.
We have developed performance their environmental impact.
The Group at work and in public places.
indicators that assist local management established baseline data in 2004 05 on Our products inimplementing the policy and ultimately emissions to air and water, water and energy Many of our innovative products play a very developing an EMS.
The requirement for consumption, and waste production, the positive role in monitoring and improving anEMS and the related reporting has been results of which are updated on the Halma the environment.
Halma brands lead the rolled out to all UK business units, which website each year.
The data collected for the world in a number of technologies which represent approximately 43% of Group past five years has enabled the Group to set help to minimise environmental damage.
production facilities in terms of external comprehensive and quantiable objectives turnover.
All Group companies are for reducing its environmental impacts in Our principal environmental technologies encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the those areas and to set and monitor targets are water leakage detection, gas emissions international environmental accreditation, for reduction in key areas.
The collected monitoring, water and efuent analysis, where warranted.
The requirement to data confirms that the main area of impact UV water treatment and optical sensing.
implement an EMS will be extended to on the environment is energy consumption.
Wetirelessly promote the use of UV water therest of the Group in the medium term.
The Group does not operate a eet of sterilisation which eliminates the need Interms of revenue, currently 19% of the distribution vehicles although we do own a touse dangerous chemicals, as well as Group has ISO 14001 approval.
From May 2007, products that minimise the waste of we implemented a cap on permissible CO2 cleanwater.
Our impact emissions of all UK company vehicles and The environmental effect of our operations Our commitment to the development of will extend this requirement to the rest is relatively low compared to manufacturers equipment for measuring environmental ofthe world in due course.
This limit is in other sectors.
Our manufacturing model changes and controlling the damaging reduced each year so as to consistently is decentralised permitting our operations impact of industrial activities is long term.
reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
to be located close to their customers.
We make safety equipment for use at work, We have also set a fuel consumption Manufacturing operations are established in public places and in transportation standard for company vehicles in the USA across the world for this very reason systems that contribute to increased which is reviewed annually.
ratherthan to save labour costs.
The ethos personal safety by ensuring safe practice of being close to our customers reects the Due to revisions to best practice in atwork, protecting people from re and importance we place on the quality of our conversion of energy usage into carbon making elevators and automatic doors products and the service levels we provide tonnes we have restated prior year carbon safeand effective.
We are the major world to our customers.
It also makes our gures to enable comparability.
supplier in several of these areas.
operations more exible and responsive We are committed to reducing our carbon Carbon policy totheir markets and customers.
We set a target in 2007 to reduce The Groups policy on carbon is published operations spread around the globe, the Groups total carbon emissions relative on our website and has been distributed oursupplier base is understandably to revenues by 10% over three years.
andexplained to all Halma business units.
Therefore, responsibility for Following a total reduction of 7% in the vetting and managing suppliers is devolved A senior executive in each of our higherrsttwo years, 2009 10 showed an increase to local management whilst meeting the impact business units is responsible for following the acquisition of a high energy Groups ethical standards.
implementing the carbon policy at local usage facility in the USA.
Our Finance Director, Kevin hard to reduce the energy impact of that Thompson, has principal responsibility facility and excluding that operation we forcoordinating and monitoring the policy.
would have achieved our target reduction.
We renewed our target in 2010 and in the first year achieved a useful reduction.
We have initiated a number ofcarbon reduction actions, particularly inthe UK, which are designed to help us meet our targets.
