Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Environment Throughout all phases of its projects, care of the physical and cultural environment has been a core priority for Allied Gold.
Detailed and ongoing monitoring of the aquatic environment has been undertaken in particular.
Allied Golds Environmental Management Plans and associated permits require regular monitoring and reporting on the impact on the environment of Allied Golds activities.
Allied Gold has complied, and continues to, comply with all of its environmental obligations.
Allied Gold invests much time and planning into sustainable development and infrastructure.
We work to achieve continuous improvement in environmental performance.
We are in partnership with the local landowners and are committed to environmental protection, sustainability and rehabilitation.
Our processes are environmentally sound, and benefit by input from both the local community and external consultants who are experts in this area.
We employ consistent and systematic testing procedures, such as stringent monitoring of the waterways, and we adhere to strict guidelines.
We consistently work to minimise or prevent any harmful impact of our operations on the environment.
Working with communities Allied Gold has a real community focus and we work closely with the leaders of the communities in which it operates.
As a significant employer in its communities, Allied Gold is committed to the development of the local people.
We provide medical facilities and other support for our workers but most importantly we have created a number of major business opportunities that are directly and indirectly associated with the running of our mines.
Through the royalties generated by the mine the people of the Tabar Islands and Guadalcanal have an opportunity to engage in sustainable projects that will provide a better standard of living and brighter future for following generations.
Part of our long-term approach towards community relations is to: Ensure mutual benefits for all involved.
Improve the quality of life for the communities.
Work in partnership with the local level government to find solutions in sustainable projects both during the life of mining operations and after mine closure.
Develop social infrastructure, such as health and education facilities.
Provide business development support, by equipping local enterprises with business skills and knowledge that will enable them to endure long after the mine has closed.
Assist in the development of the agricultural sector in the immediate vicinity of its operations.
