Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Principle Description Comments Principle 5.
Make timely and balanced The Company has an approved Continuous Disclosure Policy that is published on its disclosure website at www.
au The Company complies with this requirement.
Principle 6 Respect the rights of Refer discussion of how the Company manages its communications with shareholders at page shareholders 31 to 32.
The Company complies with this requirement.
Recognise and manage risk Refer discussion of the Companys approach to risk management at pages 35 to 36.
Remunerate fairly and Refer to the Remuneration Report at pages 43 to 48. responsibly The Company complies with this requirement.
CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Allied Gold recognises that its operations have significant social, economic and environmental impacts on the communities in which it operates.
A key factor in the success of Allied Golds mining projects is the diligent maintenance of its social licence.
The central elements of Allied Golds approach are mitigating the potential negative impact of Allied Golds operations whilst supporting the development of communities that will be sustainable after mining operations have ceased.
The key elements of Allied Golds approach to Corporate and Social Responsibility are: - Our people - Health and Safety - The environment - Working with communities Set out below is a summary of Allied Golds key sustainable development practices.
Our People At Allied Gold we value our people and are serious about their skill development, career path and workplace safety.
We focus on our employee talents and career aspirations, working with our team to help them achieve their full potential.
We value our staff feedback about our business as that enables us to continually achieve further improvements.
We are security focused, and provide a safe, comfortable working environment.
Our Company culture is one of high performance, individual growth, strong leadership, clear direction, and cohesive teamwork.
We are excited about the opportunities that future growth of Allied Gold will provide for our employees.
We are very proud of the expertise within Allied Gold and will continue to attract and retain a skilled workforce as our business grows.
Health and Safety Allied Gold is committed to achieving a safe and healthy work environment for all of its employees, contractors, partners and visitors.
To achieve this, Allied Gold: Takes positive action to ensure that all work is done safely.
Pursues evaluation, training and promotional activities to ensure that all personnel have a clear understanding of safety issues and their safety responsibilities.
Ensures all statutory obligations are complied with or exceeded.
