environment & sustainabilit y heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 0 Oil and gas operations have the potential to damage the environment but, if managed well, any negative impacts of activities can be minimised.
2011 highlights once more we can report that we have had no environmental incidents, such as spills, during the year: we conducted EIAs for all major work programmes in line with local regulations: gas flared within Russia is within the limits provided by the government: and minimal gas was flared in Kurdistan during well testing operations.
p ote nti a l The potential environmental impact of our activities includes: A strong environmental performance is key to maintaining impact and our reputation and ability to generate shareholder value.
o p p o r t un it y the impact of wells, pipelines and other infrastructure Consequently, we undertake operations to the high with a resulting effect on biodiversity: international standards of the oil industry and EIAs are PACT the accidental release of hydrocarbons or chemicals: conducted before any major capital expenditure is incurred.
and In doing so we can maintain a reputation of being a partner emissions which can affect air quality and can of choice.
potentially be linked with climate change.
m i t igat io n We have specific group requirements and We have developed systems and practices which are of impact recommendations governing our identification and designed to help us: management of potential impacts of projects that carry particular environmental and social risks: these apply to identify and assess potential environmental impacts in new projects and acquisition negotiations.
the early stages of a project or acquisition: take necessary action to mitigate impacts throughout our operations: and leave a limited footprint, in line with local regulations.
o u r We work to understand and manage the sensitivities of the diesel generators to gas where possible and using the a ppr oac h environments in which we operate, and our responsibilities highest standard, most energy efficient equipment to them, throughout the lifecycle of our operations.
We are available, which also has the effect of reducing our energy ROACH committed to making a positive contribution to the costs.
Additionally, our camps and sites are planned to protection of the environment in areas in which we operate minimise their environmental footprints.
and aim to minimise any adverse effects of our operations.
We want to contribute positively to global sustainability We identify and assess potential environmental impacts at through our operations, the development of our fields, the the planning stage of our operations.
We protect, as best adoption of new technologies and the conduct of our we can, the local environment during operations and aim relationships with all stakeholders.
to restore it to the same standard that we found it in once activities are completed.
This restoration activity is Due to the nature of exploration activities, we often conducted in conjunction with the local authorities and operate in remote locations, without access to grid the communities where we operate.
electricity, where we are reliant on generators to power our equipment.
To minimise our impact in these areas, we are None of our active operations were in protected areas or focused on restricting and reducing flaring, switching areas of high biodiversity value during 2011.
Do the effects of the Companys activities on the Has the Company considered developing targets for certain aspects of its business such as air emissions, water usage environment represent a material potential risk to its Q&A shareholders and other stakeholders?
During 2011, the Companys activities, prior to any Currently Heritages planned activities do not produce material amounts of air emissions, water usage or waste.
mitigation, presented a small potential environmental impact, representing an immaterial risk to its shareholders Consequently, we do not believe that our operations or reporting would benefit from having set targets for these and stakeholders.
However, we do provide certain information in the GRI table on pages 24 to 33 of this CSR Report.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20
