Csr poLiCY fr AMeWork The CSR policy framework sets out the essential core values which Heritage believes make the Company a good corporate citizen.
The framework defines how the Company should operate across all levels of the business, setting a high standard to measure against.
We recognise achievement and create opportunities for individuals at all levels of our businesses.
In dealing with our employees we act in compliance with Our approach to: national regulatory requirements and our obligations eNviroNMeNtAL AND sustAiNAbiLitY under relevant national and international laws.
M At t e r s iLo DeCLArAtioN oN fuNDAMeNtAL eNviroNMeNtAL priNCipLes AND riGhts At Work We aim to make a positive contribution to the protection We support the four fundamental principles contained of the environment where we operate and to minimise within the International Labour Organisation ILO any adverse effects of our operations.
In accordance with local legislation and we will prevent, or otherwise minimise, mitigate and practice, we respect freedom of association, the right to remediate, harmful effects of our operations on the collective bargaining, employment that is freely chosen environment.
We will also promote, encourage and with no use of forced or child labour and we do not prioritise reuse and recycling methods throughout our discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, operations and endeavour to meet the challenges culture, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
eQuAL opportuNitY sustAiNAbLe busiNess We value all employees for their contribution to the We aim to contribute positively to global sustainability business and are committed to diversity and opportunities through our operations, the development of our fields, for advancement.
These factors are not influenced by any our adoption of new technologies and the conduct of our considerations other than performance and aptitude.
Employees are provided with the opportunity to develop their potential and, where appropriate, to develop their careers further within the Group.
Our approach to: heALth AND sAfetY MAtters oCCupAtioNAL heALth We aim to protect the physical health of all of our Health and safety is a natural priority and a core element employees and contractors whilst in the workplace.
All energy companies face a wide In particular, we endeavour to meet any challenges range of health and safety matters ranging from industrial presented to our employees and the wider communities accidents to occupational illnesses.
Our goal, and a key in which they live and operate.
performance indicator of the Company, is zero injuries and fatalities across all areas of our operations.
We aim to ensure that important factors, such as an understanding Our approach to: of cultural differences in host countries and use of external CoMMuNitY AND huMAN riGhts contractors, are addressed in the development of our M At t e r s health and safety systems and procedures with a view to constructing, maintaining and developing world-class CoMMuNities safety systems across all of our operations.
It is important to the Company that relationships with neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect.
These relationships recognise Our approach to: that active and enduring partnerships are a central and eMpLoYee MAtters fundamental element of our business.
We aim to promote the sharing of economic benefit created by our activities eMpLoYees through the conduct of our community relationships.
Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value is linked to our ability to recruit, motivate and retain uNiteD NAtioNs uNiversAL DeCLArAtioN high calibre staff as detailed in our risk section in the of huMAN riGhts Annual Review Report on pages 34 to 37.
Ensuring that We support human rights, consistent with the stipulations relationships between our employees are cohesive, safe and contained within the United Nations Universal Declaration effective is important to our Company and we expect all of Human Rights and remain committed to upholding our employees to respect different cultures, traditions and these principles.
We endeavour to ensure that these employment practices across our business areas.
We share commitments extend to all of our supply chains and common goals with our employees and contractors, in we work with our partners and contractors to ensure particular the elimination of workplace injuries, and are that they are part of our contractual requirements.
committed to good corporate values and responsible heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 06 uNiteD NAtioNs DeCLArAtioN oN reLAtioNs With suppLiers theriGhts of iNDiGeNous peopLes We ensure that all of our suppliers are treated fairly and Heritage supports the principles which underpin the responsibly.
All potential suppliers will have a reasonable United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous opportunity to win business with us.
In particular we support rights to culture, suppliers on time and in accordance with agreed terms of identity, language, employment, health and education.
Suppliers will conduct their activities in accordance with our own policies.
LAND ACCess We ensure that we receive the widest possible support for CoMpetitioN our proposals throughout the life cycle of our activities.
We We always aim to compete vigorously with our do this by working in partnership with our stakeholders to competitors, but in a fair and responsible way, and aim to optimally and sensitively co-ordinate relevant economic, ensure that our success is built upon excellence.
When in technical and sustainable development factors in an contact with our competitors, employees are required to integrated process.
avoid disclosing confidential information and we will not make improper attempts to acquire competitor trade secrets or other confidential information.
Employees will Our approach to: not undertake any arrangements or practices that may busiNess CoNDuCt MAtters conflict with laws applicable to conduct of our business.
poLitiCAL iNvoLveMeNt Heritage does not, directly or indirectly, participate in party politics and the Company does not provide financial Our approach to: support to political parties or politicians.
CorporAte GoverNANCe MAtters briberY AND CorruptioN CoMpLiANCe With the LAW AND Heritage is resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption reLevANt reGuLAtioNs in whatever forms they may take.
Gifts or entertainment We are committed to protecting the interests of our may only be offered to a third party if they are consistent shareholders and other stakeholders through compliance with usual business practice in the relevant territory, are with relevant legal and regulatory environments and modest in value and cannot be interpreted as a form similarly through effective management of business of inducement.
We comply fully with all relevant national and international laws and act in accordance with local It is Heritages policy that revenues and purchases and guidelines and regulations, including those that are services from suppliers are made solely on the basis of industry specific and govern our operations.
price, quality, performance, value and for its benefit.
Sales, purchases or award of contracts should never be made as It is the responsibility of senior personnel to ensure, by the result of giving or receiving inducements in the form of taking legal or other advice where appropriate, that they gifts, money or entertainment from third parties or favours are aware of all local laws and regulations that may affect in any other form.
the area of the business in which they are engaged.
Employees should not accept gifts, money or ACCouNtiNG AND reCorDs entertainment from third party organisations or Heritage maintains accounting systems that identify individuals, where these might reasonably be considered clearly the true nature of all business transactions, assets likely to influence business transactions.
Gifts, other than and liabilities, in line with relevant regulatory, accounting trivial ones of low value, are not accepted.
In a culture and legal requirements.
No record or entry may be false, where such an action might cause offence, the gift must distorted, incomplete or suppressed.
be declared to the Company and, if practical, donated to an appropriate charity.
All Group reporting must be accurate and complete and in compliance in all material respects with stated accounting The UK Bribery Act became law on 1 July 2011.
Employees must not materially obtained legal advice concerning how the legislation misstate, or knowingly misrepresent, management impacted on the Group and implemented a robust information for personal gain or any other reason.
programme which included: eXterNAL reportiNG a review of the government guidance: Our businesses may be required to make statements or a review of Heritages current policies and systems with provide reports to regulatory bodies, government agencies respect to bribery, code of conduct, whistle-blowing or other government departments.
Our businesses will and other relevant policies for both employees and take care to ensure that such statements or reports are contractors: correct, timely and not misleading.
Senior management forming a Board level Anti-Bribery and Corruption must be made aware of any sensitive disclosure before it is Committee: and made.
We ensure that statements made to the media are formulating an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy.
Media enquiries are referred to our media experts and or advisers and statements are only treAtMeNt of CustoMers made by designated spokespersons.
We provide, through We regard mutual trust and confidence with our contractors our Group website www.
com, the Annual and customers as very important.
We require employees Report and Accounts and other statements, including this to deliver high levels of service consistently, surpassing report, appropriate information to enable shareholders and expectations and meeting their changing requirements.
stakeholders to assess the performance of the Company.
We always comply with applicable laws and regulations concerning disclosure of information about the Group.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 07
