e m p l oy e e s heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 4 Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value is linked to our ability to recruit, motivate and retain high calibre staff.
Heritage aims to ensure that relationships between our employees are cohesive, safe and effective.
2011 highlights we continued to operate with a high percentage of local workers drawn from our areas of operation, using expatriates only when particular skill sets were not available locally: staff turnover has remained low at 2%: approximately $372,000 spent on training: and on the job training and third party training provided to all local personnel.
p ote nti a l Our ability to create sustainable shareholder value relies We believe that our success has been attributable in part impact and on our ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees to assembling the right team of people and we focus on o p p o r t un it y with a diverse range of skills.
We believe that our how to attract, manage and engage both employees competitive advantage is derived as much from our people and contractors.
as from our asset base and attractive and growing business opportunities.
The loss of key employees is one of the Our continued focus on recruiting, where possible, from primary risks of the business which can potentially cause local communities is an important factor in maintaining short and medium-term disruption to operations.
m i t igat io n To ensure successful recruitment, motivation and retention a commitment to diversity: of impact in a challenging, international market for skills and a focus on recruitment from within host countries and experience, we aim for: communities, where certain skill sets are available: and workplaces that motivate and engage employees at all a competitive approach to remuneration with packages levels, and which are free from discrimination and reviewed regularly: harassment of any kind.
establishing long-term incentive schemes: learning and development programmes that enhance employees careers: o u r We value all employees for their contribution to Training of employees and contractors continued to receive a ppr oac h our business.
Opportunities for advancement are high priority in 2011.
We believe there is a strong business equal and not influenced by considerations other case for investing in development of our workforce as this than performance and aptitude.
Employees are provided can result in efficiency savings, reduce time lost through with the opportunity to develop their potential and, injury and assist in identifying opportunities for improving where appropriate, to further their careers within our business.
It is our responsibility to train all workers to provide better Staff are motivated to develop within a flexible access to job opportunities in the long-term.
We emphasise framework and are encouraged to provide feedback on transferable skills and a broad range of learning, as well as their expectations.
Local sourcing is important to our the basic aim of developing a knowledgeable, productive business practices and we aim to contract services to local and happy workforce.
For example, many of our transport and security needs have been fulfilled using local firms.
Does Heritage try to secure staff locally or are there a large number of expatriates employed in its areas of operation?
Q&A Heritage continues to operate with a high percentage of workers drawn from local communities, as can be seen on pages 1 and 24.
Where particular skill sets are not available locally then expatriates are used but training schemes are devised to help transfer skills to local labour.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 5
