corporate Social reSponSibilit y The business approach of Heritage is underpinned by CSR from the first stages of planning and being awarded a licence through to exploration and production.
oUr cSr ViSion DeVelopmentS in 2011 to be a responsible and transparent business in all the Heritage continued with an excellent health and safety areas in which the Company operates, believing this is record in 2011 with no LTIs or fatalities.
Community important to the operational aim of generating projects were implemented through health and safety long-term growth for the Company: programme investments in our main areas of operation to create lasting legacies for local communities: during the year Russia, Kurdistan and Mali.
operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards: and There were no environmental incidents during the year maintain high standards of corporate governance.
and Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs were conducted for all major work programmes in line with CSR encompasses the Companys management of local regulations.
relationships with stakeholders: shareholders, employees, contractors, partners and the local communities in which During 2011, Heritage engaged with institutions on the we work.
In addition it includes the impact the Company Carbon Disclosure Project CDP leading to has on society and the environment.
The Company has responded to the introduction of the UK Bribery Act which cSr in action became effective 1 July 2011 and communicated the Our CSR policy framework supports our business model programme to all staff, contractors and partners.
and sets out essential core values that we believe make Heritage a good corporate citizen.
The Company sets itself In 2012 the Company will continue with commitment a high standard against which to measure itself and towards achieving its targets.
recognises the importance of being a partner of choice.
For further information on CSR please see the CSR Report.
Heritage aims to make a positive contribution in all areas where it operates.
Examples of these activities can be seen throughout the Asset Review in this report on pages 18 to 26 and in the CSR Report.
oUr areaS oF impact anD opportUnity oUr cSr Strategy Heritage recognises specific responsibilities Set policies Environment and sustainability in each of six core areas of potential impact and opportunity, specific to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to these CSR values are viewed as a key factor Devise and maintain systems Health and safety in securing the long-term operational success of the Company.
Measure and monitor performance Employees We aim to apply targets, across our identified areas of impact and opportunity, to focus employees and enable the Company and stakeholders to monitor Communicate and report to stakeholders Community and human rights performance.
Apply stakeholder feedback Business conduct Corporate governance heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 3
