communit y & human rights heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 6 We ensure that relationships with our neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect.
Enduring partnerships are a central and fundamental element of these relationships.
2011 highlights in Kurdistan we continued to help with repairing roads close to our operations: across our operations we participated in many healthcare initiatives: and sponsored a medical student from Kurdistan to further their studies.
p ote nti a l The support of host communities, governments and other Managed correctly, we can work together with local impact and stakeholders is crucial in the achievement of our long-term communities to generate shared long-term prosperity, o p p o r t un it y business objectives.
If managed incorrectly we could some of which will stem from required health and potentially: education initiatives.
alienate communities, leading to conflict and disruption: and create a culture of dependency upon our Company or create conflict between communities and governments.
m i t igat io n To ensure that we maintain healthy relationships with seek to ensure access to land is secured using of impact local communities and governments we: approaches that are sensitive to local concerns and values: promote sharing of economic benefits created by our generate socio-economic benefits that address activities through the conduct of community long-term local needs: and relationships and are firmly committed to upholding provide opportunities for local suppliers when there principles set out in the United Nations Universal is often a significant gap between the highly technical Declaration of Human Rights: requirements of the industry and the level of skills enter into long-term sustainable community projects available locally.
requested by local communities: o u r We view stakeholder engagement as a very important encourage dialogue and manage expectations.
It is our a ppr oac h element of the way we conduct business.
The success of intention to improve conditions in the vicinity of our projects in the different parts of the world is dependent on operations and we try to invest in sustainable projects where relationships with governments, local authorities and local the local communities have a sense of ownership, thus communities.
This area has always been a priority for increasing their long-term effects.
However, in terms of Heritage and examples of activities over the past year are having the greatest impact, we believe this is best achieved detailed within this report.
through helping countries realise their natural resource potential to create shared economic wealth for everyone.
A natural part of a new project development involves consultation with local communities as well as government This report is an important element of our engagement authorities, to identify ways in which our expertise can be process and we aim to develop our CSR reporting and best applied.
Our licence to operate in any area is dependent communications both in this form and online in the on being viewed as a positive force by those most directly future.
We proactively engage with stakeholders to aid affected by our operations and therefore it is in our interest their understanding of our business and enhance our to consult stakeholders and find ways to be a trusted and approach to CSR and sustainable development.
Comments and feedback are welcomed and can be We believe that by partnering with other organisations such provided by referring to the contact information at the as NGOs, governments local and national and other back of this CSR Report or on our website companies, we reduce the risk of creating dependency, www.
Many of Heritages operations are located in areas of activities are always performed in conjunction with local economic deprivation.
How does the Company address this?
stakeholders and their input in the process is important Q&A when establishing our CSR programmes.
Heritage always develops close relationships with local authorities and communities in the area where it operates.
We have developed a successful approach to this area from An important element of these relationships is the design our experience and we apply this in the territories where and operation of sustainable development programmes we now operate.
that aim to addresss important aspects of local need.
These heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 7
