sustainability 47 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y buSineSS ethiCS our Commitment to buSineSS integrity helpS SuStain our image aS a truSted and reSponSible organiSation among all our StakeholderS human rights board oversight Upholding the highest standards Hikma is a signatory to the united nations Compliance, Responsibility, and Ethics of ethical conduct is one of our Global compact, signifying our commitment Committee CREC core principles.
We are continuously to aligning operations with the unGcs ten the year 2011 marked the first full year of universally accepted principles in the areas operation of Hikmas compliance, responsibility working to ensure all aspects of ofhuman rights, labour, environment and and ethics committee, which focused on our global operations are carried anti-corruption.
Hikmas code of conduct and formalising Hikmas strong ethical commitment out with integrity and reliability supporting policies mirror our commitment to to business integrity.
Full details of the work of uphold Human rights and sustain the highest the committee are set out on pages 73 to 75. we remain committed to our employment standards.
Suppliers global initiatives Hikma exercises an extensive supplier selection in December 2011, Hikma submitted its process that ensures that chosen suppliers communication on Progress report for the have the GmP Good manufacturing Practices third consecutive year, ensuring an active certificate or its equivalent and our main membership in the Global compact, a suppliers areisO 14001 and OHsas 18001 un-sponsored initiative for businesses committed certified.
We encourage working with local to aligning their operations and strategies companies in the communities in which we withten universally accepted principles in the operate.
For example, many excipients areas of human rights, labour, environment materials other than active pharmaceutical and anti-corruption.
For further reading, the ingredients and consumables are sourced cOP can be foundatwww.
com and locally in their respective countries.
We also utilise suppliers audit Hikma is also one of the founding members Questionnaires that relate to the environment, of the Partnership against corruption initiative Human rights, child labour, anti-bribery Paci, an offshoot of theWorld economic measures and other relevant issues to help with Forum.
Paci is a business driven global initiative assessing the suppliers practices and increase that seeks to fight bribery and corruption.
Paci their awareness of responsible operations and participants commit tozero tolerance of business ethics.
in 2011, further efforts were bribery and the successful implementation taken during the supplier audit and the ofaprogram to fight bribery andcorruption.
number of responding suppliers increased byapproximately 16%.
48 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011
