46 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y environment we aim to minimiSe our impaCt on the environment where poSSible through integrating our environmental poliCy into all areaS and aCtivitieS at hikma environmental poliCy Statement 2007 We strive to protect the natural environment green buildings Hikma Pharmaceuticals was invited by the focusing in particular on minimising waste, international Organization of standardization all of Hikmas new buildings will be built in analysing carbon emissions, monitoring an environmentally friendly manner.
Hikma is isO, the Jordan standards and metrology and reducing energy usage and minimising Organization JsmO and the swedish serious in its commitment to the environment demands for water consumption.
as an integral part of its corporate international Development cooperation agency sida to take part in a pilot phase responsibility strategy.
energy, waste and water Our state-of-the-art lyophilised plant ofaproject on the uptake and use of We streamlined our operations this year by isO26000 on social responsibility within the inPortugal that was inaugurated in 2011 is introducing energy saving, waste reduction officially environmentally friendly, according middle east and north africa mena region.
and water use efficiency systems in some of after jointly conducting a gap analysis, it was tointernational standards.
Our employees found that Hikma already follows best practice received training for reducing waste and how were performing in corporate responsibility and a plan of action managing resources more effectively.
We We successfully renewed certification of the was put in place until the end of the joint alsointroduced the Workplace Hazardous international Organization of standardization project in 2014. materials information system WHmis to isO 14001:2004 in Hikmas units in Jordan better monitor and manage hazardous waste and egypt.
We encouraged employees across were renewed at other production facilities theGroup to recycle paper in line with our worldwide.
commitment to establish an environmentally We continued to deploy reporting systems conscious work force.
in addition we focused that aim to reduce energy consumption, on minimising water consumption by waste, carbon emissions and water implementing new manufacturing processes consumption.
carbon emissions were scrutinised that treat water waste for re-use in irrigation, and analysis of better operational functions efficient utilisation of water was implemented was considered within the carbon Disclosure in our manufacturing processes through the Project cDP.
We also reported to the Global installation of a new stage for purification in reporting initiative, utilising our cr champions order make the water re-usable for irrigation.
to collect Gri data from our businesses worldwide and analysing yearly changes in energy usage.
We conducted international Finance corporation iFc audits this year that helped identify areas ofimprovement.
