44 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y Community hikma iS Committed to benefiting the CommunitieS in whiCh it workS.
through Community engagement and health awareneSS CampaignS, we addreSS loCal and global health iSSueS We collaborate with community groups to disease, diabetes and cancer.
across all of support public policies that promote economic ourmena markets, we focus on offering and social development, within the context of products that reflect the needs of the local each of the local cultures in which we operate.
in 2011, for example, welaunched imatinib in Jordan.
imatinib is investing in local pharmaceutical markets animportant medicine for the treatment Over the years we have built strong local ofbreast cancer and presents a high quality, businesses, which directly support and affordable alternative to the originator.
contribute to the local communities in which Wealso signed a commercialisation and we operate.
We have invested in best-in-class Qua l i t y f or l i f e licensing agreement with aeterna Zentaris, facilities, employed local staff and invested in anoncology drug development company, their training and development.
hikmaS fora leading colorectal cancer product in in 2011, our strong commitment to the phase iii clinical trials.
these efforts are part anti-obeSity mena region was demonstrated by our ofour continuing focus on developing a Campaign investment of around $220 million in local significant oncology portfolio for the region.
business and facilities, including acquisitions awareness campaign and ofpharmaceutical businesses in morocco and hikmas global volunteering day obesity screening sudan.
these investments will enhance and every april, employees participate in Hikmas ensure the delivery of high quality affordable Global Volunteering Day.
employees from the medicines to patients in our key mena Groups businesses worldwide take part by markets.
activities include donating blood, cleaning and painting addressing local health issues hospitals and grounds, spending time with as life expectancy in the region is increasing patients, entertaining children and organising and lifestyles are changing, we are seeing awareness campaigns and lectures for ashift in demand from anti-infectives to Hikmaemployees.
treatments for chronic ailments like heart sustainability 45 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 development and education donation team that oversaw the delivery of supplies at Gaza borders.
We also collaborated Our commitment to our local communities extends to education.
across our businesses, with the Jordanian Hashemite charity Organization in donating medical products we provide support to local students and institutions.
in 2011, funding was provided and supplies to alleviate the suffering of people in Gaza.
fordeveloping an industrial pharmaceuticals faculty at yarmouk university, and Our us business donated anti-infectives to Health and Harmonys asri clinic in indonesia, renovationto the department of pharmacy atthe university of Jordan.
in addition, in collaboration with the americares medical Outreach Program.
wecooperated with institutions to exchange scientific and practical know how, Other contributions during the year included in-kind donations of medicinal conductedjoint research projects and attended scientific fora and symposia.
products to somalia and libya.
disaster relief and humanitarianefforts We aim to support communities in distress through disaster relief and humanitarian efforts.
in 2011, in-kind medicinal donations targeted areas ofstrife, such as the besieged Gaza strip, addressing the shortage in medicinal supplies for hospitals and healthcare centres.
this was handled by our operations in saudi arabia, which contributed to Prince talal bin abdul aziz al saud Gaza aid campaign.
Qua l i t y f or l i f e Our cr champion in saudi arabia joined the hikmaS world heartday raising public awareness about heart diseases and prevention in conjunction with the World Heart Federations World Heart Day
