corPorate Governance 53 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 the listing rules of the Financial services disseminated on the companys website.
priorities in 2012 authority and the markets law require the the chief executive officer, executive XX Align governance at our recently acquired Group to report on its application of the vice-chairman, chief Financial officer and companies with Hikmas practices principles of good governance and the extent other senior corporate executives have all of its compliance with the corporate participated in the investor program during XX Continue to contribute to governance Governance Principles.
practice and thought leadership throughoutthe MENA jurisdictions During the year under review, the company the principal ongoing communication applied the main principles and the supporting with shareholders is through the publication of XX Further develop our board and senior principles of the code, and the overall the companys annual report and accounts, management succession analysis requirements of the markets law.
throughout interim results and interim management XX Advance our commitment to business the year and up until the date ofthis report statements, together with the opportunity integrity through the implementation of the company was in full compliance with the toquestion the Board and committees at the relevant procedures, policies and training corporate Governance Principles.
shareholders are encouraged to attend XX the aGm and if unable to do so are Develop further our externally moderated Dialogue with stakeholders board evaluation processes encouraged to vote by proxy.
copies of Hikma is committed to communicating with presentations made at the aGm areavailable shareholders and stakeholders in a clear and on the website after the event together with governance principles open manner.
if there are matters on which the results of the voting.
thecompany the Board is responsible for, and committed additional explanation is required, we are maintains a website which is updated to, meeting the standards of good corporate always happy to discuss them.
additionally, the company continues governance set out in the uk corporate the chairman and committee chairmen to communicate with the market inrespect of Governance code published by the Financial remain open for discussion on matters under the Groups performance and prospects reporting council in June 2010 the Code their areas of responsibility, either through through the release of appropriate press and the corporate governance principles set contacting Hikma or at the annual General announcements and other updates.
out in the markets law of the Dubai Financial meeting AGM.
services authority the Markets Law ongoing communication with shareholders together the Corporate Governance is a high priority.
this report, the audit, nomination, acontinuous program of meetings with and compliance, responsibility and ethics institutional shareholders in the uk, europe, CREC committees reports set out on the united states and the mena region.
pages 66 to 75 and the remuneration thisprogram includes one-to-one meetings, committee report set out on pages 76 to 90 investor days, conference calls and describe how the Board applied the corporate presentations at investor conferences.
the Governance Principles during the year Board receives regular updates on investor underreview.
relations issues, including feedback from analysts.
in addition, the company makes formal presentations at the time of its annual and interim results which are webcast and open for Discussion for further information: Tel: 44 20 7399 2760 E-mail: investors@hikma.
