42 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y people we foCuS on ContinuouSly developing and nurturing our workforCe.
we believe that SuStaining our peopleS growth iS CritiCal for the SuCCeSS of our buSineSS the average monthly number of employees are consistently engaged in an active dialogue.
2011 6,165 in2011 reached 6,165, a rise of 14.3% from initiatives include bi-annual management 2010 and145% since the company became briefings, the publication of our internal 2010 5,396 publicly listed on the london stock exchange quarterly magazine Zamaleh, ask your in 2005. ceO events, and Hikmas open-door policy.
2009 4,880 equal opportunities, diversity & inclusion reward and recognition We believe in the equal treatment of significant progress has been made in the NUMBER OF HIKMA EMPLOYEES employees and do not condone favouritism or development of our remuneration programme inequality in any shape or form.
With the support of the Hay 14.3% discriminate based on a persons race, religious Group and other international consultancy creed, age, sex, marital status, nationality, present firms, we are working to optimise employee or past history of mental or physical disability compensation, benefits and working conditions or any other factors not related to a persons and to implement customised grading and ability to function at his or her a job as stated performance measurement systems.
Our in the companys equal treatment of employees benefit from an employee savings employees & Harassments Policy and Procedure.
fund, share-based ltiP and miP incentive across our business, we provide excellent programmes, medical and life insurance and opportunities for young people to develop key bonus schemes, where applicable.
Hikma employees come from skills and experience.
in 2011, 58% of our different countries, different health and safety workforce was under the age of 30. the delivery of quality products is not possible nationalities, different in 2011, women comprised 28% of without ensuring the health and wellbeing Hikmas total workforce.
in certain jurisdictions religions, and both genders ofour employees.
We are committed to however, women made up a much larger but they all have one identity providing a safe working environment for our percentage of the workforce.
in Portugal, employees in which health and safety policies and one nationality in forexample, we employed 235 women, are developed, consistently applied, enforced or75%of total employees.
and updated to protect employees from Communication avoidable injuries.
Quote by the founder of hikma, as we continue to grow, we are keen to in 2011, we focused on the continuous Samih darwazah maintain Hikmas culture of openness and improvement of our Health and safety policies transparency.
through communication and achieved a group-wide implementation initiatives, we make sure that key messages ofOHsas isO 18001, the occupational health arerelayed across the Group and employees sustainability 43 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 and safety management system.
training education scheme, we offer full funding sessions on occupational health and safety forqualified employees to pursue higher were regularly conducted during the year, education.
through management rotation withspecialised training for plantoperators.
plans, we offer exposure to different parts ofour business and the opportunity to build health awareness adiverse range of skills and experience.
Our commitment to ensuring the health andwell being of our employees extends managing change and restructuring tointernally sponsored health awareness acquisitions form animportant part of campaigns aimed at raising awareness of major Hikmas growth strategy, butcan be disruptive health issues among our employees.
We conscientiously manage Qua l i t y f or l i f e these campaigns, we provide employees with anynecessary Hr changes and consider information on different diseases, particularly employees interests carefully throughout the hikmaS day where we have expertise in specific therapeutic acquisition process, while establishing clear areas.
sessions are also provided on nutrition communication plans to ensure a smooth againSt breaSt and healthy lifestyle management.
at the same time, we aim to CanCer these events included Hikmas Day against integrate new employees while preserving breast cancer, Hikmas World Heart Day Hikmas strong culture.
Following the events and activities focused on awareness, early detection and andHikmas anti-Obesity campaign.
acquisition of baxters multi-source injectables health screening business in 2011, our Hr teams supported the learning and development integration process by implementing new Hr We are committed to building employees systems, augmenting rewards and benefits skills and experiences and to creating and encouraging employee engagement.
employment opportunities that will enhance overall career development.
through programmes such as Hikmas continuing Qua l i t y f or l i f e you are hikma Campaign raising awareness regarding health, safety, and the environment at Hikma and in the broader community
