corPorate Governance 75 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 over the course of the year, Hikma has assessments.
the assessments involved speak-up developed its approach to aBc issues.
meetings with senior management across all the Board is cognisant of the need to ensure theformation of this board-level committee, functional areas and a series of interviews with employees can raise concerns on issues of appointment of the champions and randomly selected employees, third party integrity without retribution and that development of the compliance Function suppliers and customers.
all relevant policies appropriate methods of raising such concerns embodies the physical part of our aBc and procedures were provided to are available.
the Group speak-up policy top-level commitment.
contains arrangements for the crec chairman, continue to communicate our commitment Prior to the assessment, a full aBc the senior independent Director, and the tothe highest standards of business integrity business integrity presentation was made to chairman of the audit committee to receive, to all our employees right from the top.
the compliance champions, the designated in confidence, complaints on accounting, senior manager responsible for delivering the riskissues, internal control and other instances risk Assessment aBc risk assessment and divisional of allegedly improper behaviour.
early in 2011, we instructed Good corporation management.
at the end of each assessment, During the year, we enhanced our to undertake an aBc risk assessment.
Good Good corporation presented their findings to approach in this area with the implementation Corporation are an independent body the senior management team, the compliance of dedicated and, if requested, anonymous who have specialised in business ethics champion and a representative of the crec, telephone reporting in the us.
During 2012, and integrity for over a decade.
We chose including recommendations for enhancement.
we will be rolling out further enhancements them not only because of their excellent the Head of compliance attended every across europe and the mena.
We continue approach and knowledge, but also because assessment.
toencourage all our employees to improve oftheir independence and high standards Good corporation presented a composite ourbusiness by taking advantage of our ofintegrity.
analysis to the committee chairman and desirefor open and constructive dialogue Good corporation assessed Hikmas compliance function over a one day session.
framework of aBc controls and procedures at the full results were also provided to each a Group-level in london and at our corporate corporate responsibility crec member and the compliance office in Jordan.
they also undertook the executive vice chairman champions champions for their review and feedback.
subsidiary level assessments of our operations Hikmas corporate responsibility programme Good corporation also presented an executive in Jordan, the kingdom of saudi arabia, and is chairman of the Groups corporate summary of the results to the committee.
Portugal and the united states.
the Head of responsibility committee, which itself reports The conclusion from the exercise was compliance led the corporate assessment with to the crec.
Please see pages 38 to 47 for the that Hikma has a very strong ethical the relevant compliance champion taking Groups corporate responsibility report.
culture that is deeply embedded within responsibility for the delivery of the subsidiary the operations of Hikma.
over the course For and on behalf of the compliance, of 2012, we will be enhancing our aBc responsibility and ethics committee procedures to address the issues identified bythe assessment.
Dr ronald goode Committee Chairman 13 march 2012 very strong ethical culture thatis deeply imbedded within the operations of Hikma
