Corporate responsibility 43 Our people the Hochschild approach to our people Managing our talent During the year, the key position holders were identified Training and development aspart of the Groups Talent Inventory Review TIR.
The quality of our people is key to the success of the business Tailored development plans for each individual have been in achieving its strategic objectives and we therefore seek agreed and, in 2012, there will beafocus on implementation toattract and retain the best people.
The Groups HR with resources specifically allocated for that purpose.
teamoffers various incentives to ensure that our people contribute to the Groups success which include the Creating a better place to work provisionof competitive remuneration, a positive working Based on the Organisational Climate Survey of 2010, action environment measured by the Organisational Climate plans to improve the working environment were designed Survey and ongoing professional development.
and363 actions were implemented across the Group.
Theseincluded actions to improve internal communications Group values and labour relations atone of the Groups offices and, at another office, to One of the primary responsibilities of the HR team is to encourage team spirit and a sense of collaboration with ensurethe clear ongoing communication of the Groups theGroup as awhole.
corporate values: Integrity, Teamwork, Quality and Excellence, Responsibility and Commitment to our People.
These values The next survey is scheduled to be carried out later this year.
are embodied in our Code of Conduct which, amongst otherthings, sets out our commitment to the fair treatment Hochschild values ofall employees and the right to be free of harassment During 2011, a programme was launched which sought orintimidation in the workplace.
We recognise the core toembed the Groups core corporate values through training, labourrights principles and, in this respect, support the briefings and team events.
In 2012, the programme will also rightto freedom of association and collective bargaining.
incorporate active participation by managers with a focus on Approximately 59% of our total workforce are represented enhancing personal performance in line with these values.
bytrade unions or similar bodies.
People indicators 2011 Performance 2011 2010 2009 target Status General Implement development plans for all critical positions Average number of group employees 6,395 5,776 4,969 Continue with the Hochschild Mining Leadership training programme for senior management Average number of hours oftraining 49.42 17.83 14.03 Complete the first stage of the Developing Leaders undertaken per employeein Peru programme for mid-management in Peru Percentage of workforce trained during 90% 92% 94% Launch the Developing Leaders programme for the year in Peru mid-management in Argentina labour relations Number of production days lost 28 1 40.5 Our achievements in 2011 asaresult of industrial unrest The activities undertaken by the HR team during 2011 described below, provide an indication of how they have 2012 targets sought to accomplish their mission.
Implement the development plans designed as part of Developing our people theTIR The second leadership workshop for senior management Continue with the entire leadership programme at all tookplace in Lima facilitated by IAE Business School.
levelsof management For operational mid-management, the Developing Leaders Start the second stage of the Developing Leaders programme was launched in Peru and Argentina, and for programme for mid-management in Peru and Argentina administrative managers, the first workshop of the leadership programme entitled Managerial Skills was delivered also in Achieve a three point increase in the Organisational Climate conjunction with IAE Business School.
Survey against the results of the last survey commissioned in2010 The exploration team continued with a programme entitled High Performance Team.
Establish a global recruitment strategy Hochschild Mining plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Working together with local communities the Hochschild approach to working with our communities We have, since the Groups early days, shaped our communityRevised Community oriented activities to establish positive relationships with the local communities and to contribute to their development.
Relations strategy Wetry to do this by applying the following principles: Foster mutual respect and co-existence with local communities the Groups CR vision is: To be a role model corporation that promotes sustainable Achieve mutually beneficial agreements development in its areas of influence and assuressocial Improve the quality of life of community residents andeconomic wellbeing for all its stakeholders.
Improve the health, education and nutrition of local the Groups CR mission is: community members To work together with our surrounding communities andtheState Encourage good relationships and co-ordination with toimprove health, nutrition, and the educationof the population stakeholders to promote sustainable development and promote their developmentthrough sustainable projects.
Community Relations strategic review In order to deliver its corporate vision, the Group has The Group reviewed its Community Relations CR strategy indentified its primary Area of Influence as the areas during the year, amidst a constantly evolving landscape.
surrounding its southern Peruvian operations covering Thereview resulted in the formulation of a strategy that theregions of Cusco, Apurimac, Ayacucho and Arequipa.
ensures the Community Relations team, its practices and its In addition to providing resources to meet the communities long-term objectives have adapted to meet the new challenges needs locally, the Group has identified towns that benefit and, more importantly, to meet thestandards expected of a fromexisting infrastructure and that can act as host locations responsible mining company seeopposite.
for the various services to be provided by the Group.
TheseIntermediate Cities are well positioned to offer better access to health services and opportunities for education.
The Group is currently working on the Development Plans foreach of the Intermediate Cities with services to commence in 2012 2013.
Arcata employees and community members Employees from Pallancata participating in one of the events organised competing  bythe Group to mark World Environment Day Corporate responsibility 45 2011 Performance target Status Commentary Ongoing target Zero Loss of Production days resulting from community One production day was lost at the Selene plant.
Specific targets Continue identifying community and economic Community development plans were updated to prioritise projects development initiatives that promote sustainability that can be supported by the Regional and Local Government Provincial and District in Apurimac Work with government agencies in health and education, In implementing our Mdico fide Cabecera programme see Case and implement meaningful measures ofquantitative and Study below we co-ordinated with health authorities to improve qualitative achievements theprovision of State Healthcare SIS in Arequipa, andApurimac.
The Health Authority of Arequipa acknowledged thecontribution ofour service in extending coverage of SIS.
Ineducation, progress was made with an initial training programme forteachers through the Maestro Lder Programme seeCase Study on page 46 Facilitate further collaborative projects involving the State Amongst other things, co-operation agreements were signed with andprivate mining companies for the benefit oflocal the communities of Pampamarca and Iscahuaca located close communities tothe Groups Selene mine and the Regional Government for thejoint funding and technical support forprojects selected bythecommunities.
To make further progress inproviding adult education Educational institutions have been identified and implementation plans are being developed to provide services within close proximityto the communities.
Official launch event of the programme attended by Company representatives and members of the Medical team Mdico fide Cabecera travelling Doctor Programme During the year, Hochschild Mining launched the Mdico deCabecera programme with theaim of taking health servicestothe rural communities: initially to those located close to theGroups Pallancata and Ares mines.
Through the scheme, the Group provides direct healthcare services, as appropriate and general health advice and co-ordinates .
The Group has worked in partnership with regional authorities tolink the services with the national health network to ensure complete coverage under the national health system, SIS.
Hochschild Mining plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Working together with local communities continued Our achievements in 2011 2012 targets We made significant progress during the year as Zero Loss of Production days arising as a result of describedbelow.
communityconflicts We demonstrated our commitment to follow through To conclude all agreements envisaged in the mutually withour promises toour communities by: approved annual plan Designing a system to monitor compliance with our To make a measurable contribution to improvements commitments to the community and which is subject inthequality of life of the communities living close to tomonthly review theGroups operations Establishing Framework Agreements with communities toconsolidate commitments acquired over time which Community Relations indicators setaclear route for our long-term relationship with thecommunities 2011 2010 2009 2008 Community investment $7.7m $6.7m $6.0m $4.6m We refocused our medium and long-term projects by: Production days lost as a result 1 0 1.5 0 Focusing on categories of beneficiaries, such as: of community conflict schoolchildren, with an emphasis on supporting students and teachers, and high school students progressing to higher education Maestro Lder We provided employment opportunities to Community Members by: Implementing an agreement with the communities teacher leader Programme closetoArcata whereby the Group sponsored the Maestro Lder is a programme developed by the Group to train trainingof community members by the renowned teachers based in schools within the areas surrounding the miningtechnical institute, Cetemin.
On completion Groups operations in Peru.
In conjunction with prominent ofthecourse, participants were offered the opportunity educational organisations, the Group held week long training totake up employment with the Group sessions focused on enhancing teaching skills in order to improve student learning.
We promoted sustainable development through numerous means by: Over 300 teachers from elementary and high schools participated in the programme which was delivered across Supporting members of the Chuqihuaqui community three locations: Lima, Cusco and Arequipa, and each teacher located close to the Arcata operating unit to establish received a certificate in the areas of teaching literacy, the use aCommunity Company which subsequently provided ofInformation Technology and management.
dumper truck services to the Group for the transportation of material Each participant also received a laptop at the end of the course The continued commitment of financial and technical foruse as a tool in their ongoing endeavours.
resources to Alpaca and trout breeding programmes, themain economic activities in the Peruvian highlands Our support for the local Development Agency of Perito Moreno, the closest town to our San Jose operations inArgentina.
Working with governmental authorities INTA we have provided advice on agricultural practices and the marketing of handmade crafts made by local artisanal producers Participants in the Maestro Lder programme held in Lima
