Corporate responsibility Supply chain We continue to operate a successful Graduate HomeServe has in place Ethical & Sustainable Recruitment Programme in the UK, and will Procurement Policies which are used in the launch similar programmes in our French and general procurement process and in respect Spanish businesses in 2011.
HomeServe actively of all tenders.
In this way HomeServe aims to continues to support trade apprenticeships in apply its responsible, sustainable and ethical the UK, and following the success of last years principles throughout its supply chain in all programme will recruit a number of apprentices dealings with its goods and service providers.
to its UK Plumbing and Drainage business this year.
In 2011, around 10% of our employed Employees Plumbing and Drainage Engineer workforce will HomeServes business values support our be apprentices.
In addition, the Companys Leadership Characteristics, We continue to recognise the importance of agreed in 2009, ensure that individuals effective communication with both managers hired or promoted into leadership positions and employees.
In the UK, the Company display appropriate behaviours, as well as has recently launched a new Internal the necessary commercial and technical Communications brand Our House as a focal skills.
These characteristics are now built into point for all employee related communications.
our Leadership Recruitment, Appraisal and Employee surveys have been run in the UK Development programmes for leaders in all and parts of Continental Europe, with results HomeServes businesses.
published and action plans agreed and communicated to employees.
We continue HomeServe has operated a Group wide to make effective use of the intranet, staff Leadership Succession Planning process for magazines and employee representative two years, with the aim of retaining talent and forums works councils in all businesses, both to increasing the level of internal appointments disseminate information and to receive feedback compared to external hires.
This complements and ideas from employees regarding business the Performance Management process and strategy and performance.
is overseen by the Executive Committee.
From April 2011 HomeServe is implementing a Group Leadership Development Programme, designed in partnership with Cranfield University, which is closely aligned to business strategy and our Leadership Characteristics.
Key elements of the Programme will be sponsored by Executive Committee members.
