Corporate responsibility Volunteering Environment Volunteering is promoted and encouraged As part of HomeServes commitment to reduce its by HomeServe and this years activities have impact on the environment, a full environmental included work to improve the grounds at review of the business has commenced, Solihull Hospice, working in charity shops, facilitated by the Group Environmental Manager, marshalling at Walk Ten and collecting for the and will continue over the next 12 months.
The Environmental Policy has been reviewed Cause Related Marketing during the year and in the UK, the Senior In addition to our employee fundraising Management Team has signed up to an and business donations, we recognise Environmental Commitment to ensure that our customers may also be interested environmental improvements are achieved in supporting Marie Curie.
Therefore, we across the business.
have now started to integrate cause related marketing into our acquisition, cross sales As part of the environmental review, the Group and renewal marketing activity and we Environmental Manager has been working ran a number of tests and campaigns last with key stakeholders to set the roadmap year, generating awareness and funds for for HomeServes environmental journey.
roadmap comprises short, medium and longWe also keep our customers regularly term environmental objectives, each supported updated with our fundraising progress and by a full set of Key Performance Indicators.
activities via our customer magazine, mailing inserts, social media and website.
Our first full year with Marie Curie has proved very successful and we were honoured to be nominated by them for the prestigious Institute of Fundraising, Charity Partnership of the Year award.
Other activities In addition to our partnership with Marie Curie, HomeServe supports the Comic Relief appeal each year by opening donation lines in our call centre.
More than 200 volunteers answered 3,050 donation calls on Red Nose Day in March, raising over 100,000 to help vulnerable people in both the UK and Africa.
We continue to run an annual Youth Team Sponsorship Scheme and during the year awarded 24 grants to local youth teams linked to HomeServe employees.
We also provide ad-hoc support to other charities throughout the year in 2010 11 this included the Pakistani Flood Appeal and the Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal.
HomeServe 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Environmental Management System Fleet initiatives and company cars As part of HomeServes commitment to Due to the nature of the business, one of the continuous improvement, the HomeServe largest elements of HomeServes carbon Environmental Management System EMS will footprint results from fuel consumed by the be reviewed and re-launched over the coming commercial fleet.
As a result, this is an area of year.
HomeServe believes that an EMS is particular focus and a number of initiatives have essential and will help to: been implemented or will be implemented over Improve the management of environmental the coming year including: impacts.
Monthly fleet review meetings with all the Set targets to reduce energy use, water use & key stakeholders to ensure that data such waste to landfill.
as MPG and fuel purchased are reviewed Initiate and maintain procedures to improve on a regular basis and action taken to reduce efficiencies including: the environmental and financial cost to Environmentally friendly purchasing the business.
procedures: Use of the telematics system fitted in every Preferred business travel option.
van to monitor, amongst other measures, Define key responsibilities for achieving the speed and the distance travelled in any targets.
Monitor and measure environmental Publishing a league table of the commercial performance against key indicators.
fleet drivers to show their individual fuel Regularly assess progress towards achieving efficiency levels thereby encouraging set objectives.
employees to drive more efficiently.
An Ensure due diligence and ongoing award is presented to the employee with the consideration of legal and other highest miles per gallon in each area.
Replacement of 60 of the Vauxhall Movano Contribute to preferred employer status vans used in the network with Mercedes Achieve cost savings.
Sprinters with the latest Euro 5 compliant engines which incorporate Start Stop The EMS will be externally audited in future, technology.
The new vans reduced our ultimately enabling HomeServe to achieve CO by 13g per kilometre, and overall, this 2 ISO14001 and demonstrate that we work to an programme resulted in a total saving of accredited standard.
36,050 tonnes of CO. 2 Environmental training The company car list is reviewed on a regular Staff training and environmental awareness basis.
As new technology improves the fuel are essential to improving environmental efficiency of new cars on the market, HomeServe performance.
During the year a comprehensive will continue to improve the fuel efficiency of training programme was launched in the UK for its company car fleet.
The car with the highest all key members of staff.
The first phase of the carbon dioxide emission levels per kilometre programme targeted the HomeServe engineers vehicle is now 180g CO per km, as opposed to 2 and technicians and included topics such as: 225g CO per km formerly.
Employees can now 2 the importance of being an environmentally select vehicles with emission levels as low as friendly company, pollution prevention, legal 109g CO per km.
2 compliance, waste management and efficient driving.
The next phase will involve job specific training for those whose roles have greatest environmental impact.
HomeServe 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Recycling HomeServes carbon footprint HomeServe has worked hard with its waste As the HomeServe business grows outside the sub-contractors and waste brokers to ensure UK it is essential that we share best practice.
that as little waste as possible ends up in Whilst the carbon footprint for 2010 11 below is landfill.
In most cases, when general waste for the UK operation, the Group Environmental leaves a HomeServe site, it is sent to a mixed Manager is working with other businesses to recycling facility where any recyclable material enable them to start analysing and reducing is removed.
Currently, of the 49% of waste that their carbon footprint.
This will allow HomeServe leaves UK sites as general waste, only 17% to monitor, manage and reduce its overall actually ends up in landfill.
Over the next year, carbon footprint and environmental impact.
HomeServe will be working on its internal waste In the UK, HomeServe will be subject to the systems to ensure it further implements the CRC Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy waste hierarchy that is, eliminate, reduce, reuse Efficiency Scheme.
This will ensure as much waste as possible is segregated on site and will improve The carbon footprint for HomeServes UK the Companys overall recycling rates.
Reducing our paper consumption Carbon footprint Customer communication is a vital component of the HomeServe model but we recognise the 2% 4% need to reduce the environmental impact of our 8% mailings.
HomeServe uses a number of external suppliers to produce and distribute our mailings 9% and we work closely with them to ensure they meet our minimum requirements and strive for 39% continual improvement.
Some key areas include ensuring: 11% All stock is FSC, FSC mixed or Recycled accredited.
All inks are alcohol free and or vegetable or water based.
27% All printer waste is either recycled or disposed of in line with European n Commercial fleet n Business transport management standards.
n Electricity n Gas Compliance with PAS2020 and ISO14001 n Paper n Air rail n Waste water across our entire supplier base some suppliers are also carbon neutral.
Compliance with Royal Mail Responsible Mail and TNT Posts Green Post entry level criteria.
HomeServe 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Great people In July 2010, we launched a unique policy exclusively for Marie Curie patients.
The policy covers practically every home emergency and repair, with call-out, labour, parts and VAT all included.
To support the policy, HomeServe call centre employees and engineers have been specially trained on the sensitive needs of Marie Curie patients.
To date, 311 policies have been activated which equates to 195,000 worth of free home emergency cover and HomeServe has carried out 170 jobs in patients homes.
The policy will continue to be offered in 2011 12.
Susan Munroe, Director of Nursing and Patient Services at Marie Curie Cancer Care, said: We are extremely grateful to HomeServe for offering our patients this cover.
For patients and their families dealing with a terminal illness, one of the last things on their mind is household jobs and maintenance.
HomeServe is offering a practical solution for patients and families, which provides peace of mind at a difficult time.
HomeServe 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance HomeServe 51 Annual Report & Accounts 2011
