Health and safety Performance HomeServe continues to strive to manage During the year, HomeServe has proactively health and safety successfully and where worked on improving the arrangements in place possible, deliver improvements in its to manage health and safety.
HomeServes strategy continues and standardised our UK policy ensuring that to be to ensure compliance with legal standards arrangements are consistent across all sites.
as a minimum, but where practicable, adopt In the UK we have also continued to deliver good industry practice and share that practice training to our network management employees across the businesses.
through the use of proprietary training packages IOSH Managing Safely and IOSH Working Risks Safely.
In 2011 we will be rolling out an internally HomeServe has a variety of health and safety developed computer based training package risks to manage.
Transport and road risk, for our office based managers and other slips, trips and falls, manual handling and employees which will focus on providing an lone working represent some of the most awareness of health and safety responsibilities common risks arising from our activities.
and an overview of our health and safety policy HomeServe is committed to managing these arrangements.
risks in a balanced and proportionate way.
All the businesses are required to have a A key element for the effective management suitable health and safety policy in place with of health and safety within the organisation a supporting management system underpinned is the development of a culture in which line by a robust risk assessment process, reflecting management actively demonstrates ownership the risks within each particular business.
of health and safety issues.
HomeServe expects each of its businesses to ensure compliance Our services are often delivered via partnerships with relevant health and safety legislation with contractors, franchisees and other regardless of the country in which it is operating.
We work with these partners to The recently appointed global Head of Health ensure that our health and safety expectations & Safety works with the businesses to ensure are understood and met, and that the work they that they meet local legal requirements as a undertake on our behalf is managed as safely minimum whilst at the same time meeting as is reasonably practicable.
our own internal health and safety standards.
Martin Bennett is the Main Board Director responsible for reporting on health and safety, but the Board as a whole remains responsible for health and safety issues across the Group.
HomeServe 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility During the year the network management Despite our continued efforts to improve our business in the UK has been awarded the Health and Safety performance, the frequency RoSPA Gold award for its health and safety of incidents is up on the previous year.
This is the second year the process improvements may have led to better network management business has entered reporting of accidents there is clearly a need the awards, building on last years Silver award.
to ensure that successful health and safety HomeServe at Home entered the award for the management remains a continued priority first time in the year, obtaining a Silver award.
for HomeServe, with particular emphasis The scheme looks not only at accident records, being placed on the reduction in the overall but also entrants overarching health and safety accident rate.
management systems, including important practices such as strong leadership and Plans for 2011 12 workforce involvement.
We will continue to review our health and safety arrangements, with particular focus on our HomeServe has had limited contact with international businesses, ensuring that the national health and safety enforcing arrangements we have in place are suitable and authorities during the reporting period, with no sufficient to safely manage the activities being prosecutions or other enforcement action being performed.
taken against the Company for breaches of health and safety regulations.
Work is planned to improve the range of data and other information used for health and Accidents incidents safety performance measurement so that a In the UK HomeServe had no fatalities, no clearer overview, in a simple standard format, is defined major injuries and no dangerous available.
This will provide greater visibility of the occurrences during the year.
However it did overall Health and Safety performance, enabling have a total of 21 defined over 3 day RIDDOR Directors to see where risks are well managed reportable lost time accidents, which is an and where more work is needed.
increase of 7 over the previous year.
We continue to focus on the three key risks In total during this period there were 135 identified as being significant and affecting accidents recorded compared to 122 in 2009 10. most of HomeServes activities: driving and road Overall a total of 259 working days were lost as risks, contractor and franchisee management a result of work related accidents, an increase of and work station ergonomics.
As in previous years, the main causes of the accidents or incidents were in respect of slips, trips and falls, cuts and bruises, manual handling or muscular strains.
The overall lost time accident frequency rate per million hours worked is calculated as 12.1 compared with 8.56 for the previous year.
The accident incident rate for lost time reportable incidents per 1,000 employees was 7.15, compared with a rate of 4.85 the previous year and our severity rate lost time due to accidents per 1,000 hours worked was 0.15 which was the same as the previous year.
HomeServe 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Community Key Achievements in 2010 2011: At HomeServe, we pride ourselves on being a caring and responsible company The launch of a Marie Curie Complete Cover and in November 2009 we formed our first Patient Policy national charity partnership with Marie Curie In July 2010 we launched a unique free policy Cancer Care.
exclusively for Marie Curie patients.
The policy covers practically every home emergency Employing more than 2,700 nurses, doctors and and repair, with call-out, labour, parts and other healthcare professionals, Marie Curie VAT all included in the cover.
To support the provides free care to those with terminal cancer policy, HomeServe call centre employees and and other illnesses in their own homes.
In the engineers have been specially trained on the last year alone, Marie Curie provided care to sensitive needs of Marie Curie patients.
To more than 31,000 patients in the community date, 311 policies have been activated which and in their nine hospices.
equates to 195,000 worth of free home emergency cover and HomeServe has carried Marie Curie nurses enable patients to out 170 jobs in patients homes.
The policy will spend their final weeks at home, in familiar continue to be offered in 2011 12. surroundings with family close by.
Alternatively, patients can stay at one of their warm and Marie Curies Walk Ten, Supported by friendly hospices instead of in the clinical and HomeServe often daunting surroundings of a hospital.
HomeServe was delighted to be the headline sponsor of the first ever Walk Ten in 2010 In addition to helping the charity by raising and we have renewed our sponsorship deal funds, we are in a unique position to enhance for 2011.
Our sponsorship money which Marie Curies home-based services by providing contributes towards our 1 million target practical support to patients in their own helped Marie Curie turn their plans into homes through our network of tradesmen reality and contributed to their advertising and engineers.
In 2010 there were 12 walks, and in 2011, there will be 20 walks held between HomeServe has pledged to donate 1 million to July and September.
Marie Curie supporters Marie Curie over the three years to March 2013. raised over 250,000 in sponsorship money This target comprises employee fundraising and from participating in the walks in 2010. volunteering, customer donations, sponsorship HomeServe employees, family and friends and gift-in-kind contributions.
By the end of the also got involved in the walks either by first year 333,333 has been donated, exactly putting their best foot forward or by one third of our pledge 138,000 cash, which volunteering on the event days.
will pay for 6,900 hours of Marie Curie nursing care and 195,000 gift-in-kind.
Employee Fundraising Activities HomeServe employees have been busy raising funds with sponsored marathons, fun runs, sky dives, cycling trips, cake bakes and dress-down days.
Many HomeServe employees have also signed up to the Pennies for Patients Scheme, which enables staff to donate the odd pennies from their monthly pay, up to 99p a month directly to Marie Curie.
