Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 Corporate social responsibility report Howden Joinery Groups business Responsibility to local communities our ability to offer energy is centred on the manufacture and efficient products to consumers.
Each of our sites is an integral sale of kitchens and joinery to trade part of the community in which These KPIs, which are discussed in customers.
With over 400,000 of it operates, and helping those detail below, help us to ensure that our kitchens being fitted in homes communities to flourish is the action we take to reduce our around the UK every year, we important to everyone who environmental impact is targeted recognise that the Company has lives and works in them.
where it will have most benefit, and an important role to play in the that our progress is measurable and wider community.
Responsibility to future motivational for all those involved.
generations We describe our responsibilities ResPONsIBle maNUFaCTURING under five headings: Through apprentice IN THe UK programmes and college Responsibility to manufacture safe support schemes, we aim to We operate two manufacturing and sustainable product help both our own staff and facilities in the UK one at Runcorn also the next generation of in Cheshire and one at Howden in Our kitchens must not only builders and tradespeople.
Manufacturing at scale in function properly and comply the UK benefits our domestic with regulations and legislation We are clear that these workforce and the communities in but they must be produced in responsibilities must be reconciled which they live and work.
a way which is mindful of the with the pursuit of our commercial wider environmental impact interests.
This report describes the During 2011, our UK-based both of our own operations 27 actions we have taken over the past manufacturing teams produced and the product we sell.
year to ensure that our commitment over: to all our stakeholders is identifiable Responsibility to our staff 3.5 million kitchen cabinets: and sustainable and continues to With over 6,300 employees, progress along with our business.
860,000 kitchen worktops and we recognise the importance For ease of reading and comparison, breakfast bars: and of our business to our staff the report is in a similar format to and their families.
previous years, and, unless 2.3 million kitchen frontals otherwise stated, the report covers Responsibility to customers and we continue to look for further the entirety of our business.
and suppliers opportunities to make use of our manufacturing knowledge and measURING OUR Our 250,000 trade account resources.
aCHIevemeNTs holders rely on our products and services to ensure the The Group continues to measure its maNaGING OUR ImPaCT ON growth and prosperity of their performance in respect of THe eNvIRONmeNT own businesses.
environmental issues through the Wood use of a number of Key Performance Our international supply base of manufactured product Indicators KPIs.
These relate to: over 200 suppliers provides As a supplier of kitchen and joinery opportunities and employment our use of wood products, wood obviously plays a in a wide range of trades.
central role in what we do.
It is how we manage our waste therefore our policy to always try and source wood in a way that is Corporate social responsibility report continued Bought-in product good for the environment as well as Howden Joinery has been As well as manufacturing product in good for our business.
Our preferred certified by the FSC and the PEFC the UK, we continue to source option is to buy wood which is since February 2008.
At the end of joinery products and kitchen frontals certified by either the UK Forest 2011, 19 of our 38 kitchen ranges from a range of suppliers in the UK, Stewardship Council UK FSC or by 50% of our kitchens were fully Europe and elsewhere in the world.
the European Programme for the compliant with FSC requirements Ethical and environmental sourcing Endorsement of Forest Certification compared to 43% in 2010.
We is an important factor in our PEFC.
These respected, aim to maintain a similar international supply chain, and we independent schemes enable us to proportion in 2012. expect all our suppliers to exercise source wood and paper products energy high standards in this area.
from suppliers that use sustainable Our efforts to reduce energy use methods to manage their forests.
In 2011, as in 2010, 92% of across the business are recognised our European timber based by our accreditation under the To monitor the effectiveness of this product suppliers were certified Carbon Trust Standard.
For over policy, we set ourselves an annual as sourcing timber from a 10 years prior to the introduction of KPI which is: sustainable supply.
the Carbon Trust accreditation, the To ensure that 100% of our Groups manufacturing facilities had Regular supplier audits and wood product used in our enjoyed accreditation under the continuous improvement manufacturing processes standards predecessor, the Energy programmes have continued comes from certified sources Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
throughout 2011 in accordance In 2011, we used 209,000 cubic with our schedule.
Our Supplier As well as assessing the Groups 28 metres of chipboard and 13,000 audit programme operates overall reduction in energy usage over cubic metres of MDF in our across all our key suppliers and a three-year period, the Standard also manufacturing process.
As has been incorporates measures relating looks at general energy management the case every year since 2006, all of to environmental, health & safety systems across the business and the this came from certified sources.
and ethical performance, as well ways in which energy reduction is as including the latest legislation encouraged across all sites.
The We also aim to source all our where appropriate, e. g. the Carbon Trusts assessors also noted cardboard packaging from either Bribery Act.
In 2011, all our key our commitment to supply energy recycled or certified sources.
In suppliers were audited and, as in efficient products to our customers 2011, we used 3,000 tonnes of 2010, all achieved an A rating in where possible.
cardboard packaging for our this programme.
manufactured products, all of which This section of our report highlights The increasing focus on came from recycled sources 2010: activity in specific areas of energy environmental matters by our 3,300 tonnes from recycled consumption such as manufacturing customers, particularly those sources.
It is our intention to aim for and vehicle fleets as well as working with local authority and a similar high standard in the future.
housing association properties, All of the kitchen ranges which are means that we are constantly manufacturing manufactured at our factories are required to review our products, One of our key metrics for energy certified by the UK FSC and over our supply chain and our logistical usage in the factories is the 99% of all products which we and operational processes to electricity we consume per manufacture in-house are FSC ensure that we address their cabinet produced.
measurement in 2008 was Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 3.62kWh per cabinet, and we are vehicles and the remainder will be make similar progress to reduce pleased that this figure has replaced this year, Where possible, water consumption, and we significantly decreased over the we will continue to introduce the continue to test new developments last three years.
However, as we latest eco-friendly models as they with our best selling dishwashers noted last year, it is unrealistic to are launched by our vehicle supplier.
expect a continuing absolute IT In addition to measuring our decrease.
In 2011, we saw a slight Further to a specific review of energy performance against our chosen increase in electricity efficiency in 2010, a number of KPIs, we are committed to gaining consumption from 3.13kWh to energy saving initiatives were Energy Savings Trust certification for 3.36kWh per cabinet, largely as a introduced within our IT department some of our appliances.
We now result of the increased use of and data centre resulting in a 60% have six appliances certified and automatic equipment in our reduction in electricity utilisation over recommended by the Energy factories.
Our aim for 2012 is to a 12 month period.
Whilst we do not Savings Trust EST 2010: 1 and we keep this metric stable.
expect to achieve similar savings in continue to seek certification for a All our Supply division sites 2012, the team continue to search for number of other products, with new manufacturing, distribution or innovative ways in which energy criteria for cooking appliances now warehouse related retained their saving measures can be adopted.
ISO14001 accreditations during Products Waste the year.
Our KPI in this area, which we set Our employees are encouraged to Truck fleet for a three year period 2010-2012, consider how we can improve our The company operates a fleet of 29 was aimed at improving the efficiency environmental performance in all 104 trucks.
This fleet remains of our best selling own-brand areas by reducing consumption, considerably smaller than it was four appliance products both in terms reusing materials and recycling years ago as we continue to work of energy consumption and water wherever possible.
with our haulier partners through usage.
The targets were: traffic sharing arrangements and In 2011, we continued to recycle maximise the use of backhaul To improve the efficiencies of our waste in line with our KPI: capacity.
All of our trucks remain best selling own-brand electric To recycle more than 95% of all Euro 5 compliant.
ovens by reducing the kilowatt manufacturing waste produced.
consumption per hour by 5% We have decided to implement a or more over the next 3 years.
Of the 37,900 tonnes of waste new tracking system across the produced 2010: 44,800, 98% truck fleet, starting in 2012.
By To reduce the water consumed was recycled 2010: 98% monitoring and directing per cycle by 5% or more for improvements in driving style, this our own-brand laundry and One element of waste from system will help drive fuel efficiency dishwashers over the next 3 years.
the manufacturing process and hence reduce CO2 emissions.
As we reported last year, excellent Car fleet progress has been made over the In 2011, we converted over We are committed to improving the last two years in respect of our 16,600 tonnes of sawdust into ecological performance of our car ovens, with energy consumption in energy at our Howden and fleet.
As planned, over 85% of the our own-brand Lamona Runcorn sites, with the vehicles driven by our managers and appliances reduced by 10% overall sawdust fuelling eight wood sales representatives have now been and by 5% for our best selling combustion boilers that burn replaced with more eco-friendly ranges.
However, we have yet to this waste to heat our Corporate social responsibility report continued factories.
This equates to investing in training and accreditations, our staff have also approximately 86k MWh of development across the benefited from our investment in energy generated from business: and internal courses, with over 70,000 sawdust in 2011. training hours completed during the ensuring that recruitment, career year.
Courses are offered in subjects In addition to this, we supplied success and progression are solely ranging from HR skills to manual over 5,000 tonnes of milled determined by an employees handling, from diversity & inclusion sawdust to a local manufacturer abilities and achievements.
to health & safety, from of animal bedding where the environmental awareness to LGV supporting learning and sawdust is recycled for use and fork-lift truck driving.
We plan to development in the community in bedding for horses, cattle continue this level of investment in Howden Joinerys heritage and and other livestock 2010: training in 2012.
We also intend to culture means we place a high value 3,000 tonnes.
maintain a strong in-house delivery on the whole range of skills capability in training as we continue We continue with the initiative technical, commercial and to encourage staff to achieve training started in 2007 to recover and interpersonal that are practised by qualifications themselves.
repair pallets which would local tradespeople.
We are keen to otherwise have been scrapped.
promote the use of these skills in the encouraging apprentices and Last year we recovered or workplace and interest in them in the traditional skills in the community repaired more than 138,000 wider community.
As well as a commitment to pallets 2010: 135,000. developing our own staff, at developing apprenticeships and Howdens we believe that one way training at Howdens sUPPORTING OUR WORKFORCe 30 of offering support to the local During 2011, we continued our TO aCqUIRe aNd PRaCTIse tradespeople we serve and keeping partnership with The Real CORe sKIlls their traditional skills alive is to give Apprenticeship Company to further employee responsibilities young people the opportunity to promote the use of apprenticeships We take our responsibilities as an learn traditional skills and understand within the workplace.
We aim to provide how to deploy them professionally.
currently employs 11 modern a positive work environment for all our In pursuit of that objective we apprentices in our Supply division staff, whether they work in factories, continued with two initiatives in and 157 within the depot network, warehouses, depots or offices.
Our 2011 which we had first reported with a further 29 being recruited culture emphasises the importance of in our 2009 Annual Report.
In addition, during the individual accountability, which means last quarter of 2011, our training the personal responsibility of each of First, we continue to encourage team achieved BTEC Centre us towards those we work with every our depots to build on their status which allows us to offer day.
We are proud of this culture, relationships with construction all employees the opportunity to which encourages openness and departments in their local colleges achieve either a BTEC level 2 Award transparency within the business and of Further Education.
As well as in Trade Business Services or a has been vital to its growth and donating discontinued products on BTEC level 3 Certificate in Trade development since 1995.
This culture which students can practise, many Business Management through is reinforced by our commitment to depots also sponsor end of year internal job related training.
By the certain core principles: awards and prizes.
end of 2011, 144 employees had successfully been awarded the level Recognising by reward the hard In 2009, we started a separate 2 award.
As well as supporting staff work of all employees: programme of support for colleges to gain internal and external offering NVQ Diploma courses that Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 include a kitchen installation responsible and accountable for the at a similar level for the last module.
Through this programme, health & safety of their employees.
three years and shows a marked we provide the colleges with The health & safety requirements of reduction over a five year period.
sufficient equipment for both our two divisions, Trade and Supply, We continue to support the practice and examination necessarily differ somewhat, and knowledge and awareness of installations.
A further four colleges therefore each division reviews staff in this area, by encouraging joined the programme this year and its own strategy, issues and staff to gain externally accredited we hope to recruit more in 2012. performance on a regular basis.
health & safety qualifications IOSH, NEBOSH and CIEH as Our second initiative has been to In the depots well as training operatives in the work with ConstructionSkills, the There were 31 reportable health & requirements of OHSAS 18001.
Sector Skills Council and Industry safety incidents in our 509 depots Training Board for the construction during 2011 2010: 16.
Although Under the British Safety Council industry, to put in place a bursary there has been an increase in the 5-star audit process, which scheme for new apprentice joiners.
number of incidents year on year, measures performance against The scheme, which is now in its the 2011 figure is below that health & safety best practice, second year of operation, was the reported for 2009, and we are all three of our sites Howden, first of its kind in the country for any pleased that the overall trend Runcorn and our warehouse in industry, and aims to fund first year in actual numbers over the last Northampton have achieved a wages for around 20 new apprentice five years continues downward 5-star rating.
The intention is to create new despite our growing headcount.
93% compliance and improved opportunities for apprentices in their performance on the prior year.
31 To ensure we maintain a health companies which would otherwise & safety culture in the Trade be unable to afford to fund In recognition of our achievements division we continue to run a apprenticeships.
Other than in health & safety, our Howden site number of courses: stipulating that the money be used was also proud to receive the for apprentice joiners, Howdens has British Safety Councils A total of 380 drivers completed no involvement in choosing either prestigious International Safety our defensive driving course the apprentices or the companies Award for the third consecutive which runs for those staff involved.
All 20 bursary placements year and was one of only 33 across the depot network who have now been awarded 2010: 12, companies worldwide to be are required to drive as part of with the students progressing well awarded a Distinction.
with both their college work and their Across the Group, there were no This year as part of a triennial work experience.
Importantly, the improvement or prohibition notices update, 43 senior managers scheme has meant that some served on us during the year by the also attended and passed the businesses that were previously Health & Safety Executive HSE, nor IOSH Safety for Senior sceptical about the value of were there any prosecutions by the Executives course.
apprentices are now willing to HSE or the Environment Agency.
consider employing apprentices In our manufacturing, warehouse on an unfunded basis given the and distribution sites PlayING aN aCTIve PaRT IN benefits they have seen in this type All our manufacturing, warehouse OUR lOCal COmmUNITIes of training.
and distribution sites remain As a locally driven business, our certified to OHSAS 18001.
Health & safety policy is to encourage staff at each The managers and directors in our of our sites to support and engage We had 16 reportable injuries during operating divisions are personally with local community activities.
This figure has been Corporate social responsibility report continued In 2011, our staff were responsible Every year our staff take up various kitchen.
Young people with learning for 2,229 donations to local good fundraising challenges to raise funds disabilities will be able to take part causes 2010: 2,100, amounting for Leonard Cheshire Disability.
in accredited catering courses led to some 814k across the Group Howdens usually fields a big team by professional staff, with the 2010: 793k.
Cash and stock for the Great North Run, and 2011 possibility that some students donations, together with employee saw a record entry of 30 people.
For could go on to attain qualifications fund raising activities, typically the third year in a row these runners and employment.
supported local schools, village have raised sufficient funds to buy We are proud of the fact that our halls, care homes, hospices, sports an adapted minibus for one of the staff, our customers and all our clubs, youth groups and many other charitys homes.
We also entered stakeholders take such an active community activities.
two teams for a new mixed ability part in giving something back to triathlon Tri-Together in south Over seven years ago we formed a their local communities.
In London as well as individual entries partnership with Leonard Cheshire celebration of their generosity, we in The London Marathon and The Disability.
Like Howdens, Leonard continue to publish our Truly Local Royal Parks Half Marathon.
Cheshire Disability is a locally books pocket-sized illustrated focused organisation.
Since its In June another record was set with books that tell the stories of people foundation in 1948, Leonard the level of support and funds raised everywhere who enrich our lives on Cheshire Disability has benefited for the charity in the annual Tea For a daily basis through their from the work of volunteers from Ability Week.
Depots collected engagement with their local local communities, with over 1,000 donations for the complimentary tea community.
We are lucky in the fact volunteers per year recruited to or coffee they supply all year round that these books represent only a 32 support a network of services as well as for promotional mugs fraction of the good work carried out across the UK.
For the past five donated by Howdens.
by our staff and customers and their years Howden Joinery Group has families as part of their daily lives.
Inspired by working with their funded many areas of Leonard residents, our inclusive kitchen matthew Ingle Cheshire Disabilitys volunteer research with Leonard Cheshire Chief executive recruitment and training programme, Disability has enabled us to offer including as of this year the relevant, affordable kitchens to 29 February 2012 Can Do Initiative.
In 2011, we The Can Do project offers social donated another four activity kitchens support and mentoring to groups of as well as revisiting four kitchens young disabled people across the installed in previous years to carry out country.
For many of these young modifications and or improvements people mostly aged 16-25, the following feedback from residents support network they have always and staff.
Four further, similar projects relied on will invariably cease after have already been designed and are they finish school or college.
objective is to prevent social One of these, a first for Leonard exclusion by including them in Cheshire Disability, involves the local activities and supporting conversion of an outbuilding at one them to find long-term volunteering of their homes into a large multipositions that in a few cases ability semi-commercial training may lead to employment.
