Job: CSR v21 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to acting responsibly Our commitment to shareholders and employees isto create a sustainable organisation capable of long term positive returns.
Key Stakeholder Groups Introduction The Business Strategy and Business Model are Hunting PLC is an international energy services outlined on page 9 of this Annual Report.
The company, which manufactures and supplies strategy of the Group is to provide value added Communities products and services to the global energy industry.
products and services, focusing on proprietary technologies and know-how, incorporating Customers Shareholders The Group operates from over 38 manufacturing product lines which capture good market share Hunting locations in the key energy producing regions within each product segment in which we invest.
Being at the forefront of delivering energy solutions to many customers, Hunting is Our commitment to shareholders and employees Suppliers Employees committed to developing relationships with alike is to create a sustainable organisation, keystakeholders employees, shareholders, capable of long term positive returns and customers, suppliers and communities within provides stability to our employees.
Shareholders This report describes the policies and Communicating with the Companys shareholders responsibilities which the Group has adopted is of key importance to the Directors.
The methods asa global corporate citizen.
of communication to our shareholders and employees include press releases issued to the Financial metrics Financial Metrics London Stock Exchange, institutional investor 90 45 Hunting PLC is committed to a business strategy presentations, which are published on the Groups 80 40 which targets long term growth in the value website and other communications including the 70 35 60 30 ofthe Groups assets.
We are committed to in-house corporate publication, the Hunting 50 25 investing capital to maintain our organic growth Review, which is published twice a year.
40 20 30 15 profile, while acquiring complementary 20 10 5 businesses which deliver similar growth.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet 10 - 0 with major shareholders at least twice a year, 07 08 09 10 11 Selected key performance indicators include: following the announcement of the Groups half profit from continuing Revenue and full year results, and whenever requested by operations LHS Profit from operations a shareholder.
The Chairman and the Senior Diluted EPS RHS Diluted earnings per share Independent Director also meet with major Free cash flow shareholders annually to discuss strategy, Be fore amortisation and exceptionalitems Return on capital employed governance and other matters.
Dividends per share Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 CSR v21.
indd 29 09 03 2012 19:57 m p Job: CSR v21 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued programmes across the Group.
Forty years The Company is listed on the London Stock The Group Exchange and is subject to regulation by the serviceis not an uncommon attribute.
iscommitted Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom UK as well as compliance with UK Company Hunting believes that employing the right tomutually peopleis only the start of the relationship Law.
The Group is also subject to the laws and developing an regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
between an employee and employer.
The Groupis committed to mutually developing an environment of Employees environment of honesty, integrity and respect for honesty, integrity its staff and for those people and companies we Our people are our most valuable asset and the and respect.
Group recognises that its success and reputation work with daily.
The Group is also committed to abiding by all international and local laws and depends upon their efforts and integrity.
Our people create Huntings competitive edge and we regulations on employment and has a no child aim to ensure that our customers expectations labour policy.
Responsibility for employees lies with local management, which The Group encourages and promotes an allows local cultural issues to be appropriately awareness of the financial and economic factors managed and the necessary development affecting the performance of the Group and Geographic Split of Employees 20102011 programmes to be structured accordingly.
shares information on current activities through 2,500 regular communication and consultation.
The location of our employees reflects the global 2,000 nature of the oil and gas industry and the Through the Groups Code of Conduct, published 1,500 geographic diversity of the Groups activities.
on the Companys website, the Group sets out its 1,000 equal opportunities policies and zero tolerance The Group has 3,453 employees 2010 2,233. approach to harassment within the workplace.
500 In2011, there was a 55% increase in employee InFebruary 2012, Hunting issued its gender 0 numbers, largely due to the acquisitions of Titan, diversity policy, which seeks to promote fair Dearborn, Doffing and Specialty.
The Group seeks andequal opportunities.
to adhere to all relevant local and jurisdictional laws about employment equality and minimum The Group believes that providing additional 2010 wage legislation.
benefits to staff encourages the best performance 2011 from our people.
Therefore, most employees are As a responsible employer, full and fair offered participation in schemes which provide consideration is given to applications for positions healthcare and post-retirement benefits and, from disabled persons and to their training and incertain instances, participation in bonus career advancement.
Every effort is made to arrangements when outperformance in terms retain in employment those who become ofoperational excellence has been achieved.
disabled while employed by the Group.
Hunting has share award schemes in place asalonger term incentive whereby staff can It is important for the Group to retain key participate in the ownership of the Company.
employees, as well as attracting high quality individuals.
This remains a major challenge for The Board has an established whistle-blowing theoil and gas industry.
Hunting has developed procedure in place for any employee wishing to asupportive work environment that promotes raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have development, learning and advancement to ensure about possible financial improprieties, or other that its employees realise their potential.
Long matters, with the Senior Independent Director.
service is a feature of the Groups employees Details of the procedure have been andrecognition is given through service award communicated to all employees.
30 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CSR v21.
indd 30 09 03 2012 19:57 UK USA CANADA EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC OTHER Job: CSR v21 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Energy Services, in the last five years and Health and Safety The Group is committed to achieving and corresponding incident rates per million hours worked are shown in the accompanying chart.
maintaining the highest standards of safety for itsemployees, customers, suppliers and the In 2011, the Group continued its programme public.
Hunting has a proven culture of aiming for best practice and employs rigorous health tointroduce lean manufacturing processes into global operations.
This resulted in efficiency andsafety practices.
gainsin a number of key business units.
Health and Safety policies include: Regular audit and maintenance reviews of Environment The Group is committed to the protection of facilities, equipment, practices and procedures to ensure compliance with prevailing theenvironment and developing manufacturing standards and legislation and a safe processes and procedures, which ensure that any environment for all those who work within adverse effects on the environment are kept to and around our facilities.
We take the view that Seeking accreditation and aligning long sustainable development is in the interests of all standing company programmes and our stakeholders and include environmental procedures to internationally recognised issues in our planning and decision-making.
Monitoring, which is a management task, The Groups environmental policy is to look for isdocumented and reported at each opportunities and adopt practices that create a Boardmeeting.
It is particularly Appropriate training and education of all staff.
sensitive to the challenges for the industry in which it operates.
The Group has programmes in Active participation in our The Group has published its combined policy on place to monitor the environmental impact from community and environment are integral to our operations.
health, safety and environmental matters, which its operational activities and remains focused on can be found on the Groups website.
ensuring environmental consideration is at the forefront of its business practices.
Huntings Head of Health, Safety and Environment reports directly to the Chief Key aspects of our environmental policies include: Executive and a report is considered by the Board Keeping any adverse effects on the of Directors at each meeting.
Encouraging the reduction of waste and The Groups target is to achieve zero recordable emissions and promoting awareness of Health and Safety 4 25 incidents.
Each local business is required to recycled materials and use of renewable 3.5 develop tailored policies to reflect its daily resources.
These incorporate the Groups approach Each operating unit developing and 2.5 15 2 to putting safety first and, at a minimum, to comply implementing their own procedures while 10 1.5 with local regulatory requirements.
Training is conducting regular reviews to ensure that they 1 5 given to every employee, whether they are on the are maintained and refined.
0.5 0 0 shop floor or working from a desk.
Encouraging employees to pay special regard 07 08 09 10 11 to environmental issues and requirements in During the year, there were no fatalities across the communities in which the Group operates.
Million hours worked LHS the Groups operations 2010 nil with 26 Incorporating health, safety and environment Incidents per million hours worked RHS recordable incidents 2010 35 a reduction of considerations into the design of new facilities.
The recorded number of hours worked for the Groups primary operating unit, Hunting Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 CSR v21.
indd 31 09 03 2012 19:57 Job: CSR v21 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Applying the respective emissions conversion With the aim of maintaining standards a number The Group of the Groups operating facilities are ISO or API factors to gas and electricity usage, the Group continuously emitted a total of 25,700 tonnes of carbon registered or subject to other similar registrations orindustry qualifications.
In 2011, 6 facilities dioxide equivalent 2010 19,600 tonnes drives to gain in2011.
within the Group were ISO 14001 or ISO 18001 leadership compliant 2010 6, indicating a recognised Mains water usage across the Groups facilities inareas of Environmental Management System being in place.
More facilities across the Group are working isalso shown in the accompanying chart.
technology towards this accreditation, continuing the Groups relevant to the commitment to monitoring and reducing the A number of the Groups facilities in the US are environmental impact of its operations.
supplied by on-site wells water sourced from Groups these wells is not included in the data presented.
During the year, the Group completed the consolidation of its UK manufacturing operations Operational Excellence and Research from five sites down to two principal sites at The Group continues to develop its relationships Badentoy and Fordoun in Scotland.
It is intended with academic institutions and during 2011 that this initiative will contribute to driving down Hunting continued its collaboration with the Gas Electricity usage utility costs and ultimately the release of University of Dundee in the UK by investing 0.1m TWh greenhouse gas emissions.
At Fordoun, the to research ways of improving safety and reliability 50 development work included a number of during ultra deepwater oil and gas extraction.
40 environmental considerations, including the 30 extension of existing ditches and culverts to The Group continuously strives to gain leadership allowfor a more natural habitat for local wildlife.
in areas of technology relevant to the Groups 20 products and at the year-end had 316 active 10 During 2011, the expansion of our Stafford, patents 2010 341.
As part of the project, 10 11 a storm water retention system was put in place In order for the Group to develop its engagement Gas TWh across the whole facility, the insulation of the within its industry sector, the Group is a member Electricity TWh building was upgraded and energy efficient of the following organisations: glazing used.
Smart energy distribution systems American Petroleum Institute API were also installed for daily and emergency Society of Petroleum Engineers power demands and energy efficient lighting with The Intervention and Coiled Tubing Association Water usage 000 m3 energy saving controls have also been installed.
Leading Oil and Gas Industry Competitiveness Investors in People 128 During 2011, the Group commenced an initiative 124 120 to collect utility data from its operations.
Data 116 from the acquisitions completed in the year is 112 108 included from the date of completion of the 104 100 transaction.
Usage of electricity and gas is 96 presented in the accompanying chart.
indd 32 09 03 2012 19:57 Job: CSR v21 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Business Ethics The Community and Charitable Donations Huntings commitment to the communities in The Groups Directors and employees promote high standards of honesty and integrity in the way which it operates extends on many fronts.
The Group participates in a number of initiatives and in it goes about its business, recognising that the Groups reputation is of critical importance in the events which raise money for charities around the world.
In 2011, Hunting employees participated in industry in which we operate.
local charitable events, including corporate support through sponsorship of a number of Through the Groups Code of Conduct and in accordance with the recently implemented UK events, in Houston, Aberdeen and London.
Bribery Act, the Group has policies and controls in place detailing procedures on how the Group The Groups major charitable event, the Hunting Art Prize is an annual event which supports and interacts with customers, suppliers and governments around the world.
recognises the local community in Houston, Texas.
In 2011, the Art Prize supported the charity Oil Helping Hands which assists people who Customers and Suppliers have been injured by working in the wider In February 2011, the Group published its Code of industry.
In Aberdeen, employees from Hunting Conduct to be adopted by the Groups employees Energy Services participated in the Aberdeen and agents, which is also sent to our customers and Corporate Decathlon which raises funds for local suppliers.
The principles in the Code of Conduct charities including CLAN, a cancer support lay out our responsibilities to all external associates charity based in Scotland.
and also incorporate anti-bribery and corruption policies addressed by the UK Bribery Act.
The Group also makes donations to charities through the Chairmans charitable trust committee, which comprises the Chairman and former Hunting employees.
In 2011, assistance was granted to 32 charities.
During 2011, the Group donated 162,000 2010 Dennis Proctor 164,000 to charities.
In accordance with Chief Executive Group policy, no political donations were made 8 March 2012 in the year 2010 nil.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 CSR v21.
