RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS HEALTH AND SAFETY ENERGY EFFICIENCY Health and safety Energy efficiency and carbon management We promote a strong health and safety culture to minimise IMI has an ongoing commitment to reduce its CO 2 risk for our people, the enviroment, adjacent communities emissions and become more energy efficient in both our and other stakeholders.
During 2011, we worked hard products and processes.
This has both environmental and at building on the good performance of recent years.
cost saving benets and in 2011 we launched a major new We now have 50 full-time health, safety and environmental initiatve called Project 20:20.
This project involves our 20 professionals across the Group, up 11% on 2010.
We largest energy-using sites, which account for more than also increased capital expenditure in this critical area.
The aim of the project is Our overall 3 day lost time accident rates per 100,000 to identify 20 best practice projects to implement across hours worked have fallen by over 50% since 2008 and in IMI and to push for 20% reduction in normalised CO 2 2011 a further improvement of 28% was achieved.
This emissions at these key sites.
The project has involved an performance demonstrates the continued clear focus and intensive programme of energy surveys, best practice commitment at all levels across the Group on health and sharing, regular conference calls and tracking project safety matters.
During 2011, we have seen an 8% reduction in our key carbon usage indicator to 3.3 CO tonnes per 1,000 hours 2 LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATES 3 DAYS worked.
Our target by the end of 2012 is 3.2 and as such we are now moving in the right direction.
Undoubtedly, the milder winter weather in 2011 helped, but the 0.27 implementation of our energy efficiency measures has 0.25 had a strong impact and will continue to do so into 2012 and beyond.
0.18 CO EMISSIONS 2 3.6 3.5 3.3 09 10 11 Whilst we are extremely proud of our achievements which enabled this improvement, we are maintaining the 2012 target of 0.22, recognising the importance of demonstrating this higher level of performance on a sustainable basis.
09 10 11 In achieving these results, we focused very strongly on communication of a positive approach to health and safety across IMI.
This includes our twin initiatives Safety Alerts and Safety Stand-downs.
The Safety Alerts aim to document lessons learned from accidents to prevent other incidents across IMI and Safety Stand-downs are site-focused briengs on the root causes and lessons learned from accidents.
30 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES Supporting our customers responsible business priorities is integral to our continued success and in particular to our Key Account Management and to delivering Engineering Advantage.
Our focus on market leadership in global niches is reinforced by our ability to deliver on our customers need to demonstrate responsibility.
We place significant emphasis on helping our customers to meet their responsible business commitments from diversity targets to carbon emissions ensuring superior long term value for our customers and inspiring their trust.
Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact on customer demand for our products and services many of which are clearly dedicated to energy efficient operation.
Our customers also value the high standard of ethical business practices set out in the IMI Way, which is particularly relevant in emerging markets where responsible business risks can be higher.
Frances first energy-positive building actually produces more energy than it consumes.
It was designed to cut back on consumption by 65% compared to those built to RT 2005 standards, Frances most recent energy regulation for buildings.
The TA Hydronics team in France were able to provide a complete system solution for the buildings pressurisation, balancing and thermostatic control requirements thereby maximising comfort, whilst minimising energy usage.
Reducing climate change can start with effective indoor climate control.
TA Hydronics is the industry leader in green solutions for indoor climate control.
Sean Toomes, Executive Director One of the largest LNG projects in the world, focused on energy optimisation and the environment, turned to our Severe Service business to provide critical ball valves that can meet cryogenic temperatures below -162C and provide 100% shut-off with proven reliability.
In total, 2,700 valves were ordered for the Gorgon LNG plant in Australia, ensuring optimal plant efficiency and energy consumption.
CCI supports our customers responsible business priorities.
We work with our customers proactively to identify and manage issues that are beneficial to all parties.
Mike Semens-Flanagan, President CCI IMI plc Annual Report 2011 31 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUPPLY CHAIN AND MANUFACTURING IMI sources components, materials and services for its manufacturing and sales operations from many countries around the world.
We recognise that there are local and national differences in business standards, but we will only procure from suppliers who have the same commitment to a set of minimum standards.
IMI has set out these standards in the IMI Supply Chain To ensure compliance with these requirements, IMI Policy.
It is our stated objective that IMI will only trade with developed a 3-step audit process which resulted in 140 suppliers that meet or exceed these minimum standards, or supplier audits in 2010 and 124 supplier audits in 2011. with suppliers that can demonstrate progression towards The audits in 2011 covered the following regions: these standards over an agreed and suitable timescale and Asia China, India and Korea 40 audits s who act according to the published IMI Way guidelines in Central & South America Mexico and Brazil 64 audits s relation to supply chain and procurement activities.
Central & Eastern Europe Poland, Ukraine and the s Czech Republic 20 audits The audits challenge the suppliers on labour standards, ethics, health and safety and the environment in keeping with the IMI Way.
As a result of the audit process, we identied 59 suppliers as a priority for additional review, following which we exited agreements with five suppliers due to responsible business and performance issues.
However, the majority of the suppliers were totally committed to the IMI Way message and are working with us to improve their operations and businesses.
In addition, in 2011, 62 of our supplier auditors across the world received additional training.
In 2012, we will continue our audits of suppliers, invest in auditor training and complete Responsibly sourcing aluminium from suppliers our audit-the-auditor programme to ensure that all IMI is fundamental to our manufacturing operations.
supplier auditors have a consistently high standard when reviewing the supply base.
Each IMI Company must therefore ensure that suppliers comply with or exceed the following minimum requirements: Suppliers will comply with all appropriate legislative s requirements No forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour will be used s No children are to be employed by IMIs suppliers s Employees of our suppliers shall be paid wages and s benets that meet or exceed minimum national requirements Employees of our suppliers shall work hours that s comply with national laws Our suppliers shall protect the health and safety of In the UK, Artform made a donation to The Water s their employees to standards in keeping with local Project helping a community in Sierra Leone.
expectations of good practice The charity focuses on building long-term, truly sustainable water projects.
The donation resulted Our suppliers shall protect the environment to s in the purchase of a hand well pump alongside standards in keeping with local expectations of supplying two school classrooms with safe water.
good practice Clean water doesnt just save lives, it changes them forever.
32 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER IMI ACTIVITIES Community engagement The communities where we operate are crucial to the success of IMI.
We have a duty to be a responsible business citizen and to meet our commitments to these communities.
Although our projects and facilities can bring benets to local communities by creating jobs and investment in the surrounding area, they can also give rise to concerns.
Consequently, IMI works to be a good neighbour and demonstrates high economic, social and environmental standards.
We also remain respectful of human rights and assist our local communities through charitable activities The Reynosa team at IMI Cornelius, Mexico, was and community volunteering.
able to purchase, deliver and present new equipment Employee investment and talent development to three local charities.
Through these donations, over 500 children will enjoy the benefit of new advanced We continue to focus on the development and engagement equipment to support their treatment, help their of our employees to ensure we have the right skills and therapy and improve their lifestyles.
expertise to full our ambitions as a company.
In 2011, we conducted our second Employee Engagement Survey.
Our response rate increased by 3% from 2009 and our employees reported even higher levels of commitment our future leaders.
Finally, we developed job families for and engagement, indicating that the actions we had taken our specialist areas including finance, health and safety in response to the 2009 survey had been to good effect.
and Key Account Management to ensure development of To directly address the employee concerns from 2011, this key talent and to create visible career paths for these we will launch a new global performance management employees.
The IMI graduate programme continues to provide As well as local training within business units to support high-quality engineering and future leadership talent into our employees, we continued to invest in our leadership the business.
talent in 2011 via our IMI Leaders Boot Camp programme, delivering high quality training and on-going development All of the investment in our development programmes has to our top talent.
We also launched our Management the aim of ensuring that we have a diverse pipeline of Fundamentals programme which provided training and employees for future senior leadership and specialist roles development to around 100 managers globally, developing in the business.
In Germany, Norgren Alpen works alongside Spix, a non-profit community organisation, to help people with learning disabilities become active members of the labour market.
In this win-win situation, Norgren can relieve its regular employees of some of the simpler tasks whilst Spix clients, who identify enthusiastically with Norgren, enjoy the protection of attending a sheltered workshop, increasing their living standards and self-esteem.
