Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 33 Corporate Responsibility Review A sustainable and responsible business Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 34 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Reflecting our belief that operating in a responsible manner is simply part ofhow we do business, we have again incorporated our corporate responsibility performance into our annual report toprovide stakeholders with a comprehensive overview of our achievements.
Why is our Responsibility Strategy so 2011 Highlights important to us?
We delivered particularly strong performances in strengthening our anti-illicit trade activities, raising standards for ethical We recognise that as a global tobacco company our products sourcing with leaf suppliers, exceeding our 10-year targets are viewed as controversial.
We also recognise the importance for waste to landfill and energy usage and lowering our of manufacturing, marketing and selling our products in a way accident rates.
We progressed 96 per cent of our public that is financially, socially and environmentally responsible.
This approach underpins our growth strategy: it is an integral part of how we operate.
The supply chain for tobacco products from crop seed to shop shelf is global, involving hundreds of thousands of people worldwide.
Millions of people choose to enjoy tobacco products on a daily basis.
Smokers and other tobacco users are informed of health risks associated with the products they enjoy by Governments, health bodies and lobbying groups.
Society has a choice whether demand for tobacco products should be met illegally by criminals selling counterfeit or smuggled goods, or by tax-paying, well-governed companies which are committed to operating responsibly and working in partnership with stakeholders.
These stakeholders are many and include employees, consumers, retailers, suppliers, We were awarded another Gold Award in the Business in the regulators, government representatives, investors and people Community CR Index.
living in the communities connected to our operations.
We strongly advocate that it is better for both consumers and society if the demand for tobacco products is met by responsible companies such as Imperial Tobacco.
Operating in a responsible manner is simply part of how we conduct business, underpins our long-term value creation and supports a sustainable business model.
Our responsibility strategy focuses on four areas: making and selling responsibly, enabling our people, respecting We achieved 71 per cent in the SAM assessment for the natural resources and partnering with and contributing Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
More information on our CR Strategy and our objectives for 2012 is available on our website www.
com cr Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 35 We are implementing Track and Trace technology across our Making and Selling Responsibly portfolio to enable us to track products through the supply chain from manufacturing to first customer and also trace any product We make and sell tobacco products responsibly.
We focus back to source if it is found to have entered the illegal channel.
on the quality of our products to delight consumers, minimise A phased implementation over the next five years will see the waste, optimise production costs and meet the specifications technology rolled out at 14 of our manufacturing sites and up determined by national product regulation.
to 80 warehouses supplying approximately 20 markets in the Anti-illicit Trade EU and beyond.
We want to ensure that the tobacco industry meets the global Tobacco Regulation demand for tobacco products rather than the criminals who As a leading multi-national business it is important our voice is operate in the illicit market.
We have a responsibility to represent our own and our Our anti-illicit trade activities protect the legitimate duty paid stakeholder interests and to inform the regulatory debate.
By actively tackling this problem we seek to Tobacco regulation is constantly evolving and there are now regain some of the lost volume in legitimate duty paid cigarettes, very few countries globally that do not have some form of contributing to our sales growth ambitions and protecting tobacco regulation.
government revenues, the legitimate businesses of tobacco retailers and our consumers.
The key drivers of regulation continue to be the World Health Organization WHO through the Framework Convention on There are three elements to illicit trade: Tobacco Control FCTC, the European Commission through Contraband genuine product imported exported illegally the European Union Tobacco Products Directive EUTPD to avoid local excise duties and national governments.
Counterfeit fake tobacco products manufactured to look The European Commission launched a public consultation on like our trademark brands their proposals for amending the EUTPD in September 2010.
There were more than 80,000 responses making it one of Illicit whites low cost legally produced cigarettes sold the most responded to public consultations ever run by the illegally outside their intended market Commission.
An Impact Assessment is currently being drafted In 2011 we have seen the downward trend in contraband by the Commission, which is expected to be published during seizures continue as a result of further enhancing our security the summer of 2012. controls, while counterfeit seizures remained broadly unchanged from 2010.
There has been a noticeable rise in illicit whites entering mature markets in Western Europe such as the UK, Ireland, France and Germany from Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
Key data reported in the annual report and accounts for We have built on the co-operation agreement we signed in 2010 the year to 30 September 2011 has been independently with the European Commission and EU Member States to jointly assured under the limited assurance requirements ISAE3000 combat illicit trade.
This has involved co-ordinated anti-illicit standard by PwC.
They have also been engaged to look trade activity and information sharing with customs authorities at our alignment with AA1000AS 2008 principles of and industry partners across the EU and neighbouring states.
The selected This agreement includes payments by Imperial Tobacco of data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within $300 million over 20 years to fund anti-illicit trade initiatives.
the annual report on page 41 and also the information We extended our Memoranda of Understanding MoUs and included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the co-operation agreements with national governments to tackle website www.
com where their moderate illicit trade, with MoUs signed in the Netherlands and Ukraine assurance statement can be found.
Earlier data was assured in 2011 bringing the total to 19 2010: 18 agreements.
Similar agreements are being sought in other markets.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 36 Corporate Responsibility Review continued We have continued to engage with regulators and government Consumer insight in several regions across the world has authorities in support of reasonable and practical regulation, enabled us to further improve quality and to better define so that regulators can draw on our own unique commercial consumer-driven quality standards.
and technical knowledge and expertise.
The ISO 9001 management system provides our framework for We attended the WHOs 4th Conference of the Parties to quality.
A total of 35 of our 51 factories are ISO 9001 certified, the FCTC in November 2010 despite being excluded from with projects underway to implement the standard in 10 other participating at their various debates.
Both ahead of and sites in 2012. following the conference, we engaged with governments Ingredients Reporting and Assessment to inform them about our views on the different FCTC work Consumers and governments want to know what is in our streams.
All Parties to the Convention will meet again in products.
We therefore support transparency with our approach South Korea at the end of 2012. to ingredients reporting.
We provide regular submissions to We contributed to the debate around regulation by making individual governments on the ingredients used in our tobacco numerous submissions to consultations at a local level products and made 48 submissions in the year.
in countries including the UK, Australia, the USA and Reporting has grown to more than just providing details of the New Zealand.
ingredients we use and we now provide technical information We have focused our efforts on the situation in Australia where about our products in a number of countries.
the government has progressed its plans for the plain packaging Consumers are able to access ingredient information of tobacco products.
During the year we ran a high profile for a number of our products via our website campaign in Australia against the plain packaging of tobacco www.
products which included TV, radio and newspaper advertising, We plan to provide information on the ingredients used in petitions and a dedicated campaign website.
a wider range of our products on our website in 2012.
Tobacco and Health We monitor alleged incidents of non-compliance with technical As a manufacturer of tobacco products, we employ product regulations and voluntary codes and comply with scientists who monitor and review developments in the government regulations on tobacco product ingredients.
area of smoking and health to ensure we fulfil our duties In countries where no regulations exist we conform to as a responsible manufacturer.
During 2011 we continued to monitor research in areas relevant Youth Smoking Prevention to tobacco by reviewing scientific literature, consulting with We believe that the decision to enjoy tobacco products is experts on emerging developments and attending conferences a choice for adults and adults only.
on a range of related topics.
Many markets continued to participate in youth access We consider requests to fund research into the mechanisms of prevention activities including communication of minimum diseases associated with tobacco products.
We do not seek age at point of sale campaigns and specific examples are to influence the results or the publication of such research.
Some scientific researchers refuse to accept tobacco companies funding.
This is a matter of regret as we believe the area continues Marketing Standards to require the attention of independent, academic science.
We take care not to make our products attractive to children.
We have our International Standard for the Marketing of Improving Product Quality Tobacco Products IMS to ensure we market our products We focus on product quality to meet the preferences of our responsibly.
All Regional Directors have confirmed compliance consumers.
Our product quality rating system PQRS is applied to our IMS in markets worldwide.
to all our factories and has been implemented in our tobacco processing sites this year.
We continue to monitor a few alleged breaches of marketing related regulations, voluntary codes and agreements.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 37 In March 2011, our European Employee Forum EEF and the Making and Selling Responsibly: Anti-illicit trade Comit dEnterprise Europen du Groupe Altadis CEEGA were activities in Burkina Faso combined to form the Imperial Tobacco European Employee Imperial Tobaccos subsidiary in Burkina Faso, MABUCIG, Works Council ITEEWC.
The first meeting of the ITEEWC will has been working closely with the authorities in the West be held in December 2011, bringing together senior executives African nation to tackle the trade in illicit cigarettes.
and employees to discuss transnational issues affecting employees in Europe and share information on the performance More than 169,000 cartons of smuggled cigarettes have of the company.
been seized and confiscated by the Governments anti-illicit trade body in recent months and then destroyed.
We have chosen not to report employment practice data for this financial year, whilst improvements are being implemented and Anti-illicit trade actions such as this are important to protect indicators validated.
We aim to report our revised employment legitimate trade, government revenues, tobacco retailers practice indicators in 2012 to cover performance management, and consumers.
equal opportunities, employee representation, grievances and disciplinary actions.
Making and Selling Responsibly: Digital Tax Verification Diversity and Equality Digital Tax Verification DTV is a joint industry initiative which Appointing the best people, regardless of gender, race, religion, supports our overall strategy to tackle illicit trade by replacing age, sexual orientation or disability, is crucial.
We appoint paper tax stamps with  unique codes people purely on merit and seek to attract highly skilled people printed directly onto packs.
to deliver our sales growth strategy.
We encourage a diverse The tax paid status is verified and enables all supply workforce by ensuring non-discrimination and equality.
chain stakeholders to confirm the authenticity of genuine Workplace Health & Safety tobacco products.
We are committed to continuous improvements in our Unlike paper stamps, which can be copied or stolen, the Occupational Health and Safety OHS risk controls.
Our Chief DTV system Codentify provides a more secure and cost Executive is responsible for OHS and chairs asteering group effective system of verification.
of senior managers to deliver improvements throughout the business.
Trials of Codentify are taking place in a number of markets in order to demonstrate its effectiveness.
Senior managers across the Group receive quarterly OHS update reports to highlight areas of concern and share best practice.
Our overall accident rate continues to improve in manufacturing Enabling our People and we want to improve further in the rest of our business.
Our verified lost time accident frequency rate for 2010 was Our people make our strategy happen.
Business success is 1.29 compared to 1.57 in 2009.
Provisional data for 2011 achieved when employees are enabled to do their very best.
indicates that our occupational health and safety performance We must enable our people by providing safe well-equipped made further good progress.
working environments, clearly defining performance expectations and motivating them to do their best work by Regrettably there was one fatality in the year when a haulage listening to their needs, rewarding them fairly, developing their contractor delivering to our ADF Le Mans site in France was talents and respecting people as individuals.
crushed between the rear of his vehicle and a loading bay.
Detailed safety guidance was issued Group-wide.
We continue to focus on employee engagement, personal development, motivation, fairness and productivity to encourage We completed the global rollout of our Deal With It our employees to excel at what they do.
behavioural safety training programme involving more than 10,000 employees and contractors on four continents.
We completed our first engagement survey across our The interactive programme was one of the largest training management team and were very encouraged by the 85 per programmes we have undertaken.
In addition, we have cent response rate and an engagement score of 59 per cent, put in place new near miss reporting and incident review which was higher than the benchmark for other similar processes to sustain the training programme and staged FMCG companies.
an international safety quiz for manufacturing employees.
Results from the survey have shaped a number of performance Ten more production sites have achieved OHSAS 18001 improvement and development initiatives.
certification of their management systems following independent external audits in this financial year.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 38 Corporate Responsibility Review continued This financial year we have continued to invest in manufacturing equipment at cigarette production sites in Africa as we aim to bring them up to the standards of our European factories.
Our logistics operations and our cigar factories have been an area of OHS focus which will continue in 2012.
Social Assessment and Human Rights Ensuring our people are treated fairly and with respect is important to us in terms of having a motivated workplace.
We have completed our assessment programme focused on manufacturing sites in countries deemed medium to high risk in terms of human rights.
The assessments were conducted as guided by the SA8000 international social accountability standard.
During 2011 we concluded a combination of site visits and desk-based reviews to ensure our operations are in line with international standards, covering employee welfare issues such as working hours, grievance management and employee Enabling our People: Safety Pin Competition representation.
Our assessments confirmed that local A Group-wide competition to reinforce the importance of employment practices are aligned with our Group policies.
workplace health and safety in our factories was a huge success with our employees.
Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct defines our expectations for standards More than 700 employees from nine of our production sites of behaviour.
It is important employees know the boundaries in in eight different countries took part in the Safety Pin initiative which to make balanced commercial decisions and support our with teams competing against one another in a test of their business integrity.
The roll out of our enhanced code is ongoing OHSE knowledge, understanding and practical skills.
with the text translated into 18 key languages.
During 2011 we continued face-to-face workshops covering the priority risk topics.
These workshops have now been delivered Respecting Natural Resources to over 2,000 managers in face-to-face training and we have trained over 100 facilitators.
We are developing an e-learning We are reliant on tobacco leaf as an agricultural product, system which we will progress further in 2012. wood for paper and packaging in our products and water to first grow and then process our tobacco.
Respecting natural resources brings us opportunities to protect ourselves against the unpredictability of climate change and the associated increase in carbon regulation.
Climate Change We remain committed to further reducing our carbon footprint.
Our goal is to reduce energy usage by 20 per cent by 2020.
Enabling our People: Imperial Tobacco Spain Our climate change strategy is focused on reducing our impact and Poland through energy conservation, lower carbon technologies, Our Spanish and Polish operations have both been renewable energy and carbon offsetting.
recognised in 2011 as being among the best companies to work for in each country.
We are concentrating on energy efficiency improvements though independent energy audits and guaranteed savings contracts.
The Top Employers awards were made by the Corporate Trials of this approach are underway at two sites Logroo in Research Foundation CRF Institute, an independent Spain and Radom in Poland before we extend Group wide.
organisation that champions best practice in business.
We will invest in renewables when commercial opportunities The CRF Institute identifies top performers in the areas of arise.
For example, this year we invested in a solar installation human resources, leadership and strategy and currently at our factory in Reidsville in the USA and a ground source heat operates in 12 countries.
pump system at our Joure factory in the Netherlands.
Companies were scored on a range of issues including Further details of our climate change risks, opportunities and employee benefits, training and development programmes, performance are available at www.
career initiatives, working conditions and corporate culture.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 39 Carbon Disclosure Project Respecting Natural Resources: Carbon management is a key element of our response to Water Conservation climate change.
The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP helps We are supporting an initiative in inform and focus our approach.
We have participated in the southern Brazil to encourage leaf CDP since its inception.
The organisation is used by most growers to help conserve the institutional investors and global companies as the leading regions water resource.
database for companies to share details of climate change risks, opportunities and performance.
In 2011, our CDP score The Water Guardian Project improved from 63 to 71. was launched in May this year in the Rio Pardo basin We are also founder members of the CDP Supply Chain an important leaf sourcing initiative, engaging with strategic suppliers, to identify shared area for Imperial Tobacco.
saving opportunities to reduce the impact of climate change.
Participating companies share data on a common platform and This five-year project, in also share best practice.
We hosted a number of collaborative conjunction with one of our key events to encourage others in our sector to also use this supply partners, will reward platform to share data and streamline supplier engagement farmers in the area who cut on carbon management.
down on their water usage.
Further details are available from the Carbon Disclosure Project website.
Environmental Performance Our manufacturing process uses energy and water and creates waste.
Minimising our environmental impact and seeking sustainable solutions can bring us benefits in terms of costsavings through efficiency, improving the quality and availability of our tobacco supply and simply getting more for less.
We made good progress in 2010 and exceeded our 10-year targets.
We reduced energy use by 13 per cent, and made excellent progress with our waste to landfill down by 27 per cent.
We also reduced our overall water consumption, which was down by 15 per cent.
During 2011 we strengthened our approach to energy saving with, for example, the renewable energy investments in Reidsville and Joure.
We are also pleased that progressing our environmental management systems is positively reducing water usage.
Respecting Natural Resources: Reidsville Solar Power The largest solar panel installation within the Group has been As part of our approach to sourcing tobacco leaf responsibly installed at our Reidsville factory in the USA.
and ensuring its sustainable supply, we are investigating the environmental impact of tobacco growing and the initial results The system uses around 800 silicon roof panels and have been encouraging.
This work is still in its early stages and generates enough energy at its peak for almost 1,700 we have been very pleased to receive the full co-operation of 100W light bulbs.
The system cost around $800,000 to install a quarter of We have continued to extend ISO 14001 accreditation of which was funded by a federal government grant designed environmental management standards across our manufacturing to encourage companies to use solar power.
sites: 72 per cent of our manufacturing sites have now achieved The income derived from selling the renewable energy and certification.
The latest to receive certification include facilities in the benefit of tax credits mean the project will pay for itself Taiwan, Reidsville USA and Gabon.
In addition, we have conducted environmental audits across our cigar manufacturing business to identify opportunities to reduce our impact and have benchmarked our environmental standards against those used by comparable FMCG equivalents to ensure our reduction targets remain meaningful.
Looking ahead we have developed a new energy baseline for comparison as well as clearer units of measure and we will be able to publish those figures in 2012.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 40 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Partnering with and Contributing to Society Our operation and value chain is extensive and involves many stakeholders globally.
We seek to exert our influence in partnerships to improve standards to ensure that discussions that concern the tobacco industry are informed and balanced.
Our Supply Chain Our main supplier engagement and assessment programmes are Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRiTP for tobacco suppliers and the Supplier Qualification Programme for the supply of non-tobacco materials.
We work with suppliers and business partners to tackle issues such as deforestation, environmental protection, child labour, sustainable development and poverty alleviation.
The majority of the tobacco we use is purchased through the Partnering with Society: Imperial Tobacco in Bristol leading international leaf supplying companies only a small In August this year litter was collected from the streets by a amount is purchased directly from growers.
All of our tobacco team of around 60 Imperial Tobacco employees in Bristol.
suppliers participate in the SRiTP programme.
The litter-picking exercise underlined Imperial Tobaccos Evaluation of our supplier SRiTP self assessment for 2011 ongoing support for the Love Where You Live campaign indicates an average score of 63 per cent which specifies a operated by the UK charity Keep Britain Tidy.
good level of risk management and an improvement since last year.
We continue to work with lower scoring performers to drive The campaign, backed by a number of high-profile FMCG improvements.
Our approach is to work with suppliers to ensure companies, highlights the litter problem as one we have a compliance but if a supplier fails to meet our standards we will collective responsibility to address.
consider ending the business relationship.
We continued our support of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco ECLT Foundation, of which we are a board member.
The ECLT works with communities in tobacco producing regions to address the underlying causes of child labour.
Given the importance of this partnership we increased our financial commitment during the year.
We continued to focus on the challenge of sustainable wood-supply for tobacco curing, which includes issues such as biodiversity and climate change.
We have engaged with our suppliers on this issue, appointed new management resource and are targeting an improvement in performance with our suppliers in this area.
For non-tobacco materials, 100 per cent of our strategic suppliers have been part of our Supplier Qualification programme, which includes social and environmental criteria.
Nineteen supplier audits were completed in 2011.
Audit results Partnering with Society: Reforestation Scheme and required actions are detailed for individual suppliers and in Poland assessed against our own standards as well as ISO 9001 for Volunteers from our Tarnowo factory supported a project quality and ISO 14001 for environment.
to replant a woodland area damaged in floods last year.
Our relationships with suppliers support our anti-illicit trade A group of Imperial Tobacco employees planted the trees initiatives and help them to comply with the high standards in the Kobylepole Forest near Pozna.
set out in our Code of Conduct.
The Plant a Tree with Us campaign was organised in Partnership Investment partnership with the Babki Inspectorate of Forests as part We have revised our approach to community investment to better of a wider regional reforestation scheme.
focus on supporting countries of need and those which are most Our Polish employees also collaborated with the Inspectorate important in terms of tobacco supply and our business presence.
on a separate scheme to feed forest animals affected by We allocated around 3 million to partnership investment in adverse weather conditions.
2011 as well as the management time involved to maximise the benefits from our involvement.
During the year our employees also gave their time during normal working hours to contribute to local community programmes in a number of countries.
More information and examples of what we do are available on our website.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
