Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility We believe that it is the enthusiasm and spirit of our people that shape and empower our Corporate Responsibility culture Governance and management Introduction from the Group Chief Executive The Board has delegated authority to the CR Committee.
Thus the CR Committee provides oversight of the CR policy and assists in its delivery.
The day to day management of CR activities are delegated to local CR working groups and CR champions within each of our businesses which off er a network of support for the CR Committee.
Our CR activities are focused through our CR Aware campaign.
Above all, the CR Committees role is to ensure that our day to day business operations respond to opportunities and challenges posed by CR issues.
CR is integral to business decision making and the standards expected of the Group and its stakeholders are clearly communicated throughout.
The Subsidiary Governance I am happy to present our 2011 Manual contains the policies which set the standard for the Corporate Responsibility Report which sets way we do business across the Group.
Compliance is checked annually through year end reporting and internal audit reviews.
out our progress and achievements The Board responsible for the strategic direction of CR during the year.
and ensuring that CR is integrated into the Groups strategy.
We continue to be committed to integrating socially responsible CR Committee responsible for setting the CR Policy within behaviour into every aspect of how we operate.
Our Corporate the framework established by the Board and ensuring that our Responsibility CR strategy aims to ensure a sustainable business business operations respond to the opportunities and risks posed for the benefi t of all our stakeholders and the communities in which by CR issues.
we operate while managing our impact on the environment.
To CR Working Groups responsible for ensuring that the CR policy implement this strategy eff ectively across all our markets we focus is promoted and communicated eff ectively and for developing on fi five core areas: Environment, People, Brand Partners, Customers CR best practice at local levels.
CR Champions employees with global and local responsibilities This year we have made progress in all fi five CR core areas.
support the CR Working Groups and CR Committee.
We rolled out the automated CO2 collection programme during 2010 and have continued to focus on the integrity of the data Environment throughout the year to ensure robustness.
We have worked hard In 2008, the Group commenced collecting data to determine to improve employee communications and have launched our its CO2 footprint, measured against three Key Performance new Group-wide intranet, The Light.
Our carefully selected brand Indicators KPIs.
During 2011 we continued the roll out of the partners continue to be at the forefront of technology, making automated CO2 collection programme introduced in 2010, it possible for our customers to better manage their own impact within each market.
During 2011, our colleagues were once again involved in This KPI measures our global electricity and gas Energy numerous programmes and partnerships to support their usage.
Since 2008, data has been collected local communities.
Community involvement is central to us on the basis of megawatt hours for electricity as these activities engage our people and positively impact and cubic metres for gas.
the communities in which we operate, making them stronger and better places in which to live, work and do business.
This KPI measures the movement of cars and Transport parts from the point of ownership which I truly believe that it is the spirit of our people that drives our means legal or contractual ownership to the CR culture and our ability to combine the local knowledge, point we cease to have legal ownership.
This enthusiasm and expertise of our employees with clearly includes test drives.
We calculate our CO2 defi ned values, standards and policies enables us to contribute responsibly and sustainably to society.
footprint by car or parts kilometres depending on the mode of transport with a CO2 multiplier.
This KPI measures the impact of the movement Flights of our people.
We have recorded the number of fl ights each fl ight leg counts as one unit and calculate our fl ight CO2 emissions with a multiplier by fl ight kilometre.
Andr Lacroix, Group Chief Executive As the Group operates three routes to market distribution, retail and VIR there are variances in our CO2 footprint across these channels.
Direct comparisons between the markets operating channels are unlikely to produce meaningful results at the 34 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Our five core areas Customers Brand partners We drive constantly We partner with Communities improving levels brands that are We support our local of customer at the forefront of communities to make service every day, green technology positive impacts where People Environment everywhere developments we operate We attract, train We manage our and motivate CO2 footprint by by engaging our understanding people in the our impact strategy and vision of the Group Core areas of focus and their risks Risk Impact Management Lack of engagement with the communities in Encourage employees to support local charities Communities which we operate leading to a poor reputation and initiatives that directly benefi t their community and lack of understanding of our customer base Energy can be a signifi cant cost to the Group By fi nding ways to cut back on energy usage the Environment as well as increasing our CO2 footprint Group saves money and also signifi cantly reduces its CO2 emissions Unnecessary business travel can increase the CO2 footprint of the Group Manage travel by use of alternative communication tools Unmanaged shipments of cars and parts can adversely impact our CO2 footprint Ensure co-ordinated shipping programmes to meet supply Poor customer service leads to decrease Inchcape Advantage embedded in all our sales Customers in revenue and aft ersales operations Net promoter score to measure customer satisfaction and identify areas for improvement Employees lack motivation and engagement: By ensuring that employees are fully engaged they People unable to attract and retain talent will continue to provide the ultimate customer service that will enable us to become the most customer centric automotive retailer in the world Unable to deliver on strategy through lack Carefully selecting brand partners that invest Brand of competitive products in technology partners Support brand partners in seeking positive labour practices including safe working environments and the eradication of child labour present time and we are looking for opportunities to exploit continuing to build up suffi cient data to ensure we can perform synergies between the channels by having a consistent meaningful analysis of the signifi cance of any trends that may emerge.
approach to CO2 management and by sharing best practice.
Carbon Reduction Commitment In 2011 we started to develop a sliding scale of targets, as a one Within the markets in which we operate the Group is subject size fi ts all approach does not allow meaningful objectives to be to local regulations on CO2 emissions.
In the UK, the combined set.
It is important that our data is robust and we are still working operations of our Head Offi ce, UK Retail businesses and Inchcape on control processes to ensure that the data collected is Fleet Solutions, qualify us for participation in the Governments relevant, fi t for purpose and capable of independent verifi cation.
Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme CRC scheme.
Our initial analysis shows how many CO2 tonnes we produce per pound Sterling of revenue against each of our KPIs.
com 35 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued The CRC scheme requires large public and private sector Employee communication During 2011, we continued to keep our employees well informed organisations to buy allowances, from 2012 onwards, to cover and therefore engaged, which is important to us.
We recently emissions produced from their usage of electricity and heat.
launched The Light, our new Group intranet, to provide all of our During 2011, the CRC scheme published a Performance colleagues with a direct line of sight to our strategy.
The pilot was League Table which ranked organisations according to the successfully launched in the UK in July 2011, and will be rolled measures they have taken on energy use as preparation for out to the rest of the Group by March 2012. taking part in the CRC scheme.
The Table ranks participants on the basis of performance in three metrics.
The metrics are The site has been designed to be a central hub of information not created so as to provide like for like comparisons, rather and news about the Group, an enabler of team collaboration to look at all qualifying companies irrespective of scale and best practice sharing.
It is the first common internal communications platform that all of our colleagues will or business model.
In the early years of the CRC scheme, be able to access no matter where they are in the world.
the early adopter metric is the most relevant as it is the sole indicator of performance for the purposes of the Table.
This Employee survey metric takes into account early action initiatives made by an Our Heartbeat employee engagement programme has been organisation to reduce its carbon emissions prior to April 2011. a significant contributor to strong employee morale.
For three Qualification for the early adopter metric required organisations weeks in May 2011, employees participated in the Heartbeat to be assessed for coverage of the Carbon Trust Standard survey, run in collaboration with Gallup.
We continued our and automatic meter readings.
Other metrics will apply previous years success with over 90% of employees within the next few years and will be taken into account participating.
The results of the survey are incorporated into team level scorecards from which, based on responses to the when assessing performance.
Heartbeat survey, each team develops an action plan to help Given the upfront investment required for the early adoption increase their level of engagement with the business.
metric, which would be of tangible benefit for only a short Employee safety period of time, and the current lack of data to assess real Many of our employees work with hazardous substances and comparative performance, the Group decided not to invest heavy machinery.
Our approach to safety aims to manage in early action initiatives but to continue to focus on the longer risks effectively by ensuring that our employees are fully trained term projects which are already embedded into the Groups and our workplaces comply with safety regulations.
We report overall CR strategy.
and monitor accidents and lost time incidents to ensure that People the safety of our employees and customers remains at the top of our agenda.
We believe that it is our people that make a difference.
During 2011 we furthered our people strategy to achieve our Location % 2011 % 2010 ultimate goal of having Engaged People in Winning Teams.
Australasia 67 58 For more information about our people strategy, please visit www.
Europe 79 69 North Asia 25 32 19 29 Average number of employees 2011 South Asia 22 35 UK 56 74 54 80 Australasia Russia & Emerging Markets 45 13 19 Europe North Asia South Asia 13,854 Brand partners UK Russia and Emerging Markets Our brand partners are carefully selected for each market in which we operate.
They have each developed comprehensive sustainability programmes and the automotive industry in general We seek to eliminate discriminatory practices and promote has made significant progress in reducing vehicle emissions.
Our the support of fundamental human rights in all our operations.
brand partners are at the forefront of technological advances in this area.
New technology will create value and accelerate Talent management vehicle replacement in advanced markets.
We proactively manage the development of our leadership population through our Talent Review and Planning Process Customers which is currently in its fifth year.
This process looks to evaluate As part of our Customer 1st strategy, our Inchcape Advantage each manager on a regular basis against both the achievement programme aims to deliver outstanding customer service every of their objectives what they are tasked to do as well as the time, every day, everywhere.
quality of their leadership skill how they achieve their results.
Our customer processes, training and systems throughout our By having this consistent global view of how we evaluate our retail centres allow local managers to set targets based on leadership population we are able to identify development customer satisfaction measured through Net Promoter Score opportunities, promotional opportunities and also have in NPS and sales and service funnel management analysis.
Our place our succession plans.
We have made several key system for tracking daily customer information includes retail people decisions as a result of the talent and performance centre traffic, sales leads, test drives and vehicle and sales orders.
management process including international opportunities which have enabled our people to have a more stimulating The mystery shop facilitates customer understanding and career path.
is carried out on a monthly basis.
Each retail centre submits feedback from 20 buyers and 20 non-buyers.
This exercise is also undertaken with aftersales customers.
36 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Our award winning Inchcape Advantage web portal is used Communities to collect and monitor results from daily customer information Our people continued to drive our CR strategy locally during which allows us to benchmark our businesses across all our 2011.
We encourage support of local charities and initiatives markets.
The Inchcape Advantage programme is used to as this approach increases our colleagues engagement in CR monitor both our own performance as a retailer and the activities and helps us further connect with the communities in performance of our third party retailers where we manage which we operate.
Information on the amazing support given the network as a distributor.
It is this focus that helps us deliver by our colleagues to their local communities can be found on outstanding customer service, builds loyalty and results in our website www.
stronger relationships which leaves the Group better In order to communicate our CR activities with employees we positioned to grow market share.
proposed The Green Baton initiative as stated in last years Customer 1st in 2011 report.
The Green Baton site will sit within the CR section of The r We carried out 2,255 mystery shop exercises in 217 retail Light and will feature a series of pages that not only explain the centre showrooms across the Group programme, but provide a platform for each region to share r We carried out 2,087 mystery shop exercises in 204 service its good news and initiatives around CR with the rest of the centres across the Group Group.
Regional CR information will then be archived so that r We talked to over 82,000 customers for our vehicle sales colleagues can fi nd ideas and best practices aft er the regions NPS programme promotional period has passed.
r We talked to over 78,000 service customers for our Our Values aft ersales NPS Much more than just words, our Values are shared beliefs NPS has improved again across the Group in both sales within our business that inform our day to day behaviours.
Based on 170 years of history, they help us operate with As part of our aft ersales service we off er a Vehicle Health a true pioneering spirit alongside genuine integrity and deep respect for each other: Check which includes: r Tyre pressure check r Respect for each other r Winning together r CO2 test and emissions test r Treating every as our own r Air condition check r Integrity without compromise r Engine lubricant test r Pioneering new ideas A Green Test Drive is off ered in some retail centres which gives tips on how to drive more effi ciently, how to improve r Passionate about customers environmental impact and how to reduce vehicle running r Caring for our environment costs.
Accessories are also available including low rolling resistance tyres, which can reduce CO2 emissions by around For more information on our Values please visit 2%, and low friction engine lubricants, which can reduce www.
Progress against goals Objective What we did in 2011 What we aim to do in 2012 Raising awareness of local CR activities Launched new intranet site, The Light, Ensure that The Light is rolled out in and employee engagement through to support The Green Baton in the UK: all regions and prepare for the launch The Green Baton began a roll out programme globally of The Green Baton Identifying opportunities to demonstrate Measured accident rates and agreed Global audit of Health & Safety and share our best practice within targets for reduction.
Commenced completed in 2012 by external our industry global audit of Health & Safety.
Worked third party with the SMMT and brand partners to share best practice Extending Health & Safety best practice Reviewed time lost through accidents Global audit of Health & Safety completed to our operations worldwide and monitored impact on business in 2012 by external third party Continued support of the communities Encouraged local initiatives and Support local initiatives and establish in which we operate provided support for these The Green Baton as a global communication tool CO2 data collection Continued to develop the automated Test the data collected to ensure that it collections system and tested greater is robust: measure CO2 usage since the depth of data to perform detailed beginning of the collection project: discuss qualitative and quantitative trend analysis reduction targets Identi cation of CO reduction Reviewed opportunities which impact Establish management targets for each 2 and or off-set opportunities in our our CO footprint business: review new technologies to assist 2 core markets with the agreed plans www.
