BUSINESS REVIEW Informa plc Corporate Responsibility 2011 saw the launch of a new vision for Informa to become the worlds best knowledge provider.
This is a bold vision and a vision that is completely WE CAN aligned with our Corporate Responsibility CR Strategy.
In the past few HAVE OUR years, we have added breadth and depth to the way we think about and practise CR.
We believe we can have the biggest CR impact through our BIGGESTCR content.
Not neglecting the issues that are important to all companies IMPACT people, environment, communities we want to step up our efforts around content.
We refer to this focus as our brainprint which denotes the ability THROUGH to aspire, challenge and engage our many audiences be they conference delegates, scientific journal readers or professionals in need of timely OUR information.
Our 2011 CR reporting marks a step in that direction.
CONTENT Emma Blaney, Group HR and CR Director OUR CR STRATEGY 2010 was all about empowering the Group businesses to The Group has three key CR objectives in support take ownership of CR and define their own material CR issues.
of content: Since then, ownership of CR at Informa has been located with senior representatives in each of the businesses, who in turn are 1. ensuring the highest quality content: supported by the central CR function and overseen by the Group HR and CR Director, Emma Blaney.
Emma reports directly to the Chief Executive, Peter Rigby.
2. ensuring retention and development of the brightest people to manage that content: and Having established this solid foundation, 2011 was all about delivering the objectives agreed by each business.
3. ensuring the most innovative and accessible Informa produces a full report on CR which is available at platforms to deliver that content globally.
com, this report shows how each of the Groups businesses has performed against those objectives in detail.
2011 also called into question the practices of many media companies and the media sector as a whole.
As the media CR agenda develops, it has become increasingly evident that the biggest risks and indeed opportunities relate to the core business: the Groups content.
Therefore, focus has been given to this priority area in this CR summary.
View our Corporate Responsibility Report www.
com  Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 33 Informa plc Our Corporate Responsibility Performance CONTINUED 1.
Ensuring the highest quality content 2.
Ensuring retention and development of the Ensuring the integrity of the Groups content is fundamental brightest people to manage its content to its survival and ability to make a positive impact on society.
The Group is a knowledge provider and its people are its The Groups clients need to trust that events and publications strongest asset.
We remain committed to delivering training are rigorously researched and reliable in every way.
and professional development to further the expertise the Group needs to succeed globally.
In 2011, Informa was certified Taylor & Francis continues to operate an independent peer review as one of Britains Top Employers for the fourth year in a row process of their publications.
For the PCI division an Editorial and based on independent research by the CRF Institute.
The internal Content Code was developed some years ago, and this is now a training centre, Informa Academy, continued to grow, boosting formal part of the induction training for all new editorial staff.
the online learning resources available and increasing attendance to webinars and courses by 19% compared with 2010.
In one part The Group also needs to ensure that its content is relevant and of the business, try days were introduced, giving employees the bespoke.
The majority of its publications and events are seen as chance to shadow work in departments other than their own.
A thought-leaders in their fields and many define knowledge in a partnership with the national UK youth charity, the Princes Trust, particular area.
In 2011, the Group won considerable external was also launched giving UK staff the opportunity to develop recognition for its content.
Lloyds List Intelligence for example skills as they run workshops for young people.
Lastly, the Group won two Professional Publishers Association awards while Forum, continues to develop its approaches to flexible working.
Taylor an Informa training business, was named in TrainingIndustry.
coms and Francis developed a preferred working hours policy at their 2011 Top 20 Lists for Content Development, Leadership Training head office, allowing staff flexibility in when they arrive in the and Sales Training Companies.
It was the only company in its morning.
Much of the business has also developed initiatives to industry to appear in all three lists.
A number of publications and enable mothers to return to work, offering reduced hours and events also provoke and facilitate debate around sustainability.
Such initiatives have for example give an idea, two new conferences, Building Green and Future resulted in over 80% of mothers returning to work from maternity Cities, were launched in Denmark and Dubai last year on the leave at Taylor & Francis.
The Company is constantly looking for fair and viable ways of managing the rights to its content.
For example, a pilot is currently underway in respect of a new author rights policy, allowing contributors to academic science journals to retain the copyright to their work and to post it within their institutional repository without an embargo period.
Both of Informas major publishing arms invest in Digital Rights Management and Taylor & Francis has been working with the Publishing Associations anti-piracy programme for nearly five years to ensure its approach is flexible enough for customers while maintaining a robust approach to fighting piracy.
THE GROUP IS A KNOWLEDGE PROVIDER AND ITS PEOPLE ARE ITS STRONGEST ASSET 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Informa plc 3.
Ensuring the most innovative and accessible IN 2011, INFORMA WAS platforms to deliver content globally The Groups publications and events help drive social, CERTIFIED AS ONE OF environmental and economic development across the globe, so the Group has a duty to make its content readily available.
BRITAINS TOP EMPLOYERS FOR Informa does business in 190 countries and continues to innovate its delivery platforms: THE FOURTH YEAR IN A ROW r Taylor & Francis Online Mobile now provides access to 1,600 r One of the Groups publications, Psychology Press, journals and reference works through mobile phones became amongst the most popular Twitter feeds of its kind in the world st r Informa Healthcare launched a podcast-based learning r Lloyds List launched the 1 ever app for shipping news platform for physicians Informa also worked together with the International Association It is also essential that the Group makes its content as accessible as for Digital Publishers on an Affordable Access Program for possible to all its audiences.
Across the Group, the Informa web students in developing countries with limited access to scientific estate is huge and ensuring it abides by the highest accessibility materials and low income.
One of the Groups academic publishers has committed to accessibility standards and programmes globally for those with print disabilities.
Informa intends to build on these and other experiences by launching webinars and guidelines on best practice in 2012 across all Informa businesses.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 35
