CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy Ensuring we act in an ethical manner, taking account working environment for them and for visitors and contractors.
of our responsibilities socially and environmentally Regular health and safety audits are undertaken at operating sites is integral to the way we conduct our business.
across the Group and health and safety updates are available to staff to show what improvements have been made to their We consider the interests of our stakeholders, working environments.
In 2011, at our principal operating site including investors, employees, suppliers and in London, we received several inspection visits from local business partners.
regulators during the year and reports from these visits were that the standards at our London site were very good, with no signifi cant issues reported for follow-up.
Community Code of conduct As referenced in the Chairmans statement, safety at sea remains Inmarsat has a specifi c Anti-Bribery Policy which we introduced core to our Companys activities.
We are proud of our maritime to comply with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act introduced heritage and that our business continues with its involvement, in July 2011.
The Inmarsat plc Board requires that all employees particularly in maritime safety issues.
Inmarsat remains the only adhere to the policy even though strictly not all our subsidiary approved provider of satellite communications services for the companies are caught by the Act.
A summary of our Anti-Bribery Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS.
Policy is on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy incorporates guidelines on dealing with gifts and accepting and giving hospitality.
TSF During 2011, TSF sent response teams to deal with emergency missions in places as diverse as Turkey, El Salvador, North Kenya, Separate policies are in place dealing with ethics, fraud, the use Libya, the Philippines and Indonesia.
of inside information and whistleblowing.
The Code of Ethics policy states that Directors, offi cers and employees are expected to conduct business in accordance with the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
The Code of Ethics is also published on our website.
Employment We have established policies which address key corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, communications and employee involvement, training and personal development, and equal opportunities.
We have elected employee forums in our operating businesses in the UK and Batam in Indonesia, and a Works Council in the Netherlands.
These groups extend two-way communications between employees and management and allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making decisions which may affect their interests.
In the UK, the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on contractual matters, We continue to invest in safety services and have already as and when required.
In the Netherlands, the Works Council is launched voice distress calling on our FleetBroadband constituted according to local requirements.
We plan to extend our maritime safety services on FleetBroadband to meet the GMDSS requirements for Rupert Pearce has been identifi ed as having responsibility for safety at sea.
health and safety issues within the Inmarsat Global operations.
Our subsidiary operations have various managers responsible for We are continuing to support the International Maritime health and safety across their operations.
The Group recognises Organization IMO in its funding and development of Search its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, safety and and Rescue SAR projects around the world.
The IMOs primary purpose is to develop and maintain a comprehensive regulatory framework for shipping and its remit today includes maritime security and safety, environmental concerns and the effi ciency of shipping.
28 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues to be used to Also, our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service of our services, normally payphones, in rural villages in remote enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor giving them information on which regions to avoid and to or non-existent.
In addition to maritime safety services, we also promote safety services to the aviation industry for use in Employees across our offi ces are encouraged to support the cockpit.
Our commitment and investment to enhancing individual charities of their choice, and for employees in aviation safety services using our SwiftBroadband service is our principal UK offi ce, this is encouraged through the UK progressing well.
Governments tax approved contributions scheme.
For employees in our US Government business, the companys employee matching fund includes a dollar-for-dollar match VOICE DISTRESS SAFETY AND RESCUE for all contributions made to charities elected by staff.
Throughout our offi ces there are many local causes which FleetBroadband IMO are supported at a corporate and employee level.
We continue to invest in safety We are continuing to support Additionally, our US Government business also supports three services and have launched the International Maritime charitable organisations through its Corporate Partnerships voice distress calling on our Organization IMO in their initiative.
The identifi ed charities within this initiative are FleetBroadband services.
funding and development of Wounded Warriors, which provides assistance services Search and Rescue SAR to service men and women as they recover and transition projects around the world.
back into civilian life: Habitat for Humanity, which supports home-building initiatives: and Operation Smile, which offers Also as highlighted in the Chairmans statement, we continue to life-changing surgeries.
support Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications aid organisation.
TSF runs programmes on disaster relief and Befi tting its maritime heritage, our company in Norway supports preparedness, training other relief organisations and regional the Sail Training Ship, Christian Radich, which was built in 1937 and national disaster response agencies about the available and was initially used as a training ship for sailors.
Now it is capabilities for emergency telecommunications.
TSF helps these preserved to be enjoyed by all age groups who can gain organisations respond to an emergency knowing they have the fi first-hand experience of how a fully-rigged ship operates.
They necessary training to use BGAN terminals and IsatPhone Pro, our also support local events set within the maritime community with handheld satellite phone.
We believe the work TSF does is vital the aim of increasing the industrys appeal to new employees.
in emergency situations and we are delighted to continue to support them.
2011 SPACE ACHIEVEMENT AWARD It was in recognition of the work that TSF undertakes and how our During 2011, TSF sent response teams to deal with emergencies services contribute to its mission that TSFs US representative Paul in many different countries, including Turkey, El Salvador, North Margie centre received the 2011 Space Achievement Award at the Kenya, Libya, the Philippines and Indonesia.
During these 27th National Space Symposium on behalf of the organisation.
missions, they worked with organisations such as the International Medical Corps, the UN Offi ce for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the European Commissions Humanitarian Aid Department and local civil protection teams.
TSF provided them with essential communications, using BGAN terminals or our IsatPhone Pro handheld phones to liaise with local teams, civil organisations and other aid agencies to ensure appropriate assistance was provided.
It was in recognition of the work that TSF undertakes and how our services contribute to its mission that they received the prestigious 2011 Space Achievement Award for their use of space-based technology to support their disaster relief work.
The award was made at the 27th National Space Symposium and TSF was the fi first-ever recipient of the award by a humanitarian organisation.
INMARSAT PLC 29 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SDA in 2009.
Along with Intelsat, SES and Eutelsat we aim Environment to improve the satellite safety of fl ight.
The SDA operates as The activities of the Group are judged to have a low an independent organisation monitoring various satellite environmental impact and are not expected to give rise to any constellations and providing advance warning of possible signifi cant, inherent environmental risks over the next 12 months.
collisions to all its members.
We are not a satellite modem manufacturer.
We only type We have over 1,500 staff worldwide represented by more than approve satellite terminals accessing our system by 50 different nationalities.
Due to the size and nature of our manufacturers who provide health and safety guidance as to business activities, we acknowledge that we have a degree of how terminals should be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure environmental impact on the local and global environment.
that antennas do not radiate any power at low elevation angles.
During 2010, we started to manufacture our new handheld Some of these environmental impacts include the use of natural satellite phone, IsatPhone Pro.
The design and manufacturing resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production processes have met all the relevant safety standards, and disposal of a variety of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling for requirements are included in the packaging for each handset.
business purposes around the globe.
Across our Group companies, we operate a number of ground Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any earth stations, a microwave network, and telemetry and tracking detrimental effect on the environment through our business facilities where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Our mission is to adopt and support the following Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular health principles: and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away from access by the general public.
Personnel who work To provide fi first-class energy and environmental management at these sites are provided with relevant training on health practices and safety issues.
To comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls To identify signifi cant environmental and social impacts and WORLDWIDE STAFF ORBITS establish objectives and targets for improvement In our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% of generated 1,500 36,000km waste and constantly to review the opportunity to use recycled products We have over 1,500 staff We operate our satellites To actively encourage the conservation of energy, water and worldwide represented by in geosynchronous orbit natural resources through the increased effi ciency and approximately 50 different which is approximately introduction of new and modern technology nationalities.
36,000km 22,500 miles To encourage all employees in our main UK site to be above the Earth.
proactive in their daily activities by: Separating their waste into dry and wet waste receptacles Ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled Switching off lights, computers, phone chargers and any other electrical items when not in use, and As a satellite operator, we have adopted the highest industry Reducing business travel and using more site-based standards in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-oftechnology such as video and audio conferencing.
life graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when they reach the end of their commercial life.
To date we have only Similar activities occur across our global offi ces.
had one satellite disposal, which was in 2006.
Its disposal was undertaken in full compliance with the relevant ITU standards.
We continue to monitor our energy consumption and comply There are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the with our social and legal responsibilities in terms of carbon remaining satellites.
We operate our satellites in geosynchronous emissions in the UK.
We are fully committed to the UK orbit which is approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles above the Governments CRC Energy Effi ciency Scheme and during earth.
This orbit has signifi cantly less debris than in a low earth 2011 complied with all aspects of the requirements.
orbit, which is approximately 700km above the earth, and where several MSS operators have their satellite constellations.
We acknowledge that we have an impact on the local and global We were a founding member of the Space Data Association environment, but in terms of our size we are low generators of carbon due to the nature of our business operations.
30 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Despite a rising base load we managed to reduce our electrical mounting a global campaign called Keep the Oceans Clean!
consumption at our principal UK site by 83,309kWh.
As in to raise awareness of the increasing volume of pollution in the previous years the base load continued to rise due to the oceans and the threat to sea life across the globe.
Information increase in technology used in our core business and with the about the campaign is available on the Volvo Ocean Race testing of equipment used in our laboratories as we develop website and at each of the host ports for the 2011-12 race.
Education In the UK we have maintained our commitment to improve our We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime waste management and increased the volumes sent for recycling.
Education and Training at the World Maritime University which Where possible we have diverted waste away from landfi ll.
In supports the education of maritime specialists.
We encourage 2011 the amount of waste sent to landfi ll from our principal UK internships with schools and universities to provide students with site reduced by 19% to three tonnes, and another 69 tonnes was the opportunity to experience at fi first-hand the engineering and diverted to energy recovery incineration which resulted in a 12% technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, we also increase in recycling to just over 41 tonnes.
continued our support of the International Space University by funding two half-scholarships for students on its Masters We recently installed additional video conferencing equipment Programme.
in our main UK and Washington offi ces which we use regularly.
We have found, apart from the benefi t of improved visual We also committed funds to the UKs fi first national Space communication between the various teams using the equipment, Academy, which is a network of teachers and space scientists that the high quality of the picture and audio has meant some that will use the inspirational context of space to teach science, meetings have been conducted using these systems rather than technology, engineering, mathematics and geography to incurring the time or expense of travelling.
This has meant that students and their teachers.
The aim is to boost the size we have, in addition, minimised our carbon footprint where we and quality of the UKs science and engineering pool.
Our Stratos business has worked over several years with Ray Zahab, supporting his World Expedition Series.
In 2011, KEEP OCEANS CLEAN Stratos sponsored Ray Zahab and his Impossible to Possible The organisers of the Volvo Ocean Race have been mounting a global Experimental Learning Programme to the Salar in Bolivia to campaign to combat the growing polution of beaches and seas.
illustrate the role that chemistry plays in the region, in honour of the United Nations International Year of Chemistry.
We supplied BGAN terminals to enable him and his Youth Ambassadors to post photos, blog entries and stream live video conferencing into classrooms in North America.
Partnerships The work our partners undertake with local companies and charities are examples of the wider infl uence of our services and were delighted how these can have an impact socially and environmentally.
Our concern for the worlds ocean environment continued on from our sponsorship in 2010 of The Plastiki, a boat made almost entirely from plastic bottles, with our involvement in the Volvo Ocean Race and their environmental campaign.
The Plastiki Expedition was a campaign to highlight severe environmental degradation across the Pacifi c Ocean.
In 2011, as Race Partner to the Volvo Ocean Race, the organisers of the race have been INMARSAT PLC 31 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
