THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 29 We also continue to provide an extensive range of training to our We have been working with our brand teams who define the guest employees aimed at accelerating their development, including experience and personality for each brand.
This has allowed us to eLearning curricula from respected business schools such as design training that will help employees understand what each Cornell University in the US.
To manage our graduate pipeline, both brand stands for and to deliver each unique brand experience.
our Asia, Middle East and Africa and Europe regions run graduate In 2011, we introduced our branded service behaviour training to programmes.
The I-grad and Future Leaders programmes rotate Holiday Inn, Hotel Indigo, InterContinental and Staybridge Suites graduates through departments in our hotels and corporate offices hotels.
94% of the attendees said they would recommend the to develop their operational and leadership capabilities.
In 2011 we workshop to colleagues and other hotels.
We are in the process had over 25 graduates on rotation in our hotels around the world of rolling out service training for Crowne Plaza and Candlewood and due to our growth and focus on talent we hired double this Suites.
number to 50 graduates who started with us towards the end of Plans have already begun for the third annual Celebrate Service 2011.
Career Insight Development Centres place our high potential week in 2012.
This week gives our hotels and corporate offices hotel team members in a simulated world of running a hotel.
a formal opportunity to tell their teams how much they are Participants experience first-hand many of the challenges and appreciated.
In 2011, more than 3,000 hotels and offices around obstacles faced everyday in hotels and graduate with a clear the world participated, and shared 1,600 stories of exceptional, development plan aimed at getting them ready for the next step BrandHearted service by our teams.
As a reward, we gave each in their career.
of the 32 people with the most compelling stories a pair of tickets During 2011, we again conducted our annual talent review of our to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
corporate managers and hotel General Managers to identify and All of these tools and events help our owners bring our brands to develop skills required for the future.
The results of the review life through their people.
This helps them reduce costs by keeping gave us a clear understanding of our high-potential talent, employees engaged and increasing employee retention, and helps their strengths, their development opportunities and the new them grow revenue through increased guest satisfaction and experiences or potential roles which will enable them to enhance repeat visits.
their skills for the future and to meet IHGs key objectives.
The Building a strong leadership team annual succession planning process for senior leadership roles enables IHG to anticipate the future leadership needs to achieve the To grow our business sustainably requires BrandHearted leaders: IHG strategy and to put the long-term plans in place to build both leaders who can transform the business and inspire their people, the right number and right quality of leaders to meet those needs.
while putting our brands at the heart of everything they do.
Key to achieving this is being clear with leaders on what is expected from In 2011, we introduced our new online performance management them at the different levels within the organisation, and providing tool, myRoomtogrow, to more than 7,300 employees globally the tools and resources that leaders need to develop their capability including all corporate team members and General Managers at to meet that expectation.
our managed and owned hotels.
Adoption of the system was at 78% in December 2011 for managers.
myRoomtogrow includes all steps Some of the key activities which demonstrate how we support in our performance management journey setting objectives at the leaders to develop their BrandHearted leadership capability, are start of the year, a check of progress at mid-year, our personal as follows: development plans, an annual self review, the managers review h olding a conference for our top 300 leaders, helping them and calibration to ensure consistency of ratings across the understand how to lead a BrandHearted business: business.
h elping leaders cascade BrandHearted through conferences Room for you and team meetings: Our promise to give employees Room for you was best illustrated c reating a BrandHearted section in our Leaders Lounge: in 2011 with the introduction of a new global recognition bringing BrandHearted to life through our leadership competencies: programme called Bravo which helps corporate employees to creating a new BrandHearted leadership programme and General publicly recognise each other for a job well done.
The intranetManager Brand Champion Service Behaviour training: and based programme allows colleagues to nominate each other for u sing eLearning to help educate our leaders, with three a simple thank you or one of the various award levels which have BrandHearted modules Brands and Branding, Our Brands, and an associated cash value depending on the achievement of the Building the Brand Experience : Holiday Inn Service Behaviours nominee.
In just two months over 1,800 Bravo awards were made.
Leadership: and two Leadership competency modules Candid Delivering world-class People Tools for our owners Conversations and Champion Change.
When we say brands are a promise delivered by people, we mean all the people who work for IHG and in IHG branded hotels.
Guests do not choose a business model: they choose our brands.
So we have made our award-winning People Tools, which help our owners to hire, train, involve and recognise employees, available to our franchised hotels.
30 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games The selection of Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express as the Official Hotel Services Provider to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games continues to provide a great opportunity to engage and motivate our people.
Throughout 2011, we have given colleagues exclusive and once-in-a-lifetime opportunities: f rom China to Australia and from the US to the UK, we are w e have given 70 of our most inspirational colleagues the appointing 91 of our best people to run the Olympic Village.
opportunity to run with the Olympic Torch when it makes its Star performers from throughout the IHG family will take on way around the UK.
These colleagues were selected on the essential roles, not only attending to world-class competitors basis of their remarkable contributions to the environment needs, but also in jobs across the Olympic organisation.
or community or an extraordinary personal story: These include working at the Athletes Village, and in w e launched a competition for our employees to design a Venue IT, Internal Audit and Accommodation Reservations: commemorative room keycard and the winning design will to d ate we have hosted 25 sports master classes run by be used at Holiday Inn hotels throughout the UK and Ireland Olympic and Paralympic athletes in eight countries including during the Games.
It will also be made into a key ring for China and Australia, allowing more than 1,500 colleagues to every Olympic athlete staying in the Athletes Village, which have a go at everything from sailing to fencing, swimming to they can take home as a memento from the Games.
97% of the colleagues who attended the classes gave than 566 designs were submitted: and them an excellent rating, and more classes are planned for w e have also employed 16 Olympic athletes across IHG 2012 in countries including the US and Japan: so they can earn while they train.
Celebrating diversity external recognition IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, owners, business In January 2012 IHG was recognised in Fortunes 100 Best partners and guests.
The Group regards diversity as a fundamental Companies to Work For in the US, to add to the prestigious awards factor in its success in operating as a global organisation and this IHG won in 2011 in recognition of its people management and HR principle is embedded in IHGs Winning Ways.
These awards are important for three reasons.
First, committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees they allow us to benchmark ourselves against and learn from without discrimination and continues to be supportive of the the best.
Second, they validate our work, elevating us out of the employment of disabled persons.
Where existing employees hospitality industry, and putting us shoulder to shoulder with some become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing of the worlds great companies.
And third, they send a signal to employment wherever practical in the same or a suitable current and prospective employees that we have a great culture, alternative position.
and are a great place to work.
In 2011, we won 16 separate people awards, including: ensuring health and safety The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For, with Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment for our recognition for excelling in every area throughout our workplace guests, employees and visitors is paramount and IHG applies and our commitment to our most important asset our people.
high standards of health and safety across the Group.
Our Global We broke into the top 10 in 2011 up from 19th place in 2010: Risk Management team evaluates policies and procedures, The Atlanta Business Chronicle Best Places to Work on the operating a range of health and safety and security measures Big Companies list ahead of Accenture, Marriott and Ernst and we require all parties to comply with relevant health and & Young: safety legislation.
P ersonnel Today awards for Excellence in Global Human All of our Group companies are responsible for protecting the Resources and HR Team of the year.
The judges were particularly health of our employees through suitable work-based strategies: impressed with our global HR strategy, tools and processes that minimising the risk of injury from work activity: ensuring that are helping us to become one of the great companies of the world.
sufficient resources, information and systems are in place to Our team was also recognised for demonstrating excellence in address health and safety: and involving employees in continuous increasing our global reach across our franchised hotels, and for improvement, reporting and review of health and safety matters.
creating an engaged and connected workforce, united towards a Further information on our approach towards safety and common goal: and security can be found on pages 34 to 40 of this Business A on Hewitts Best Employer awards in Hungary, Singapore, Review and in the online Corporate Responsibility Report at Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia.
employees positive response in a survey on our culture, employee engagement and how our work complements Great Hotels Guest Love.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 31 Collaboration Corporate responsibility Our stakeholders play a key role in helping us identify and tackle our With over 4,400 hotels worldwide and almost 1,150 in the pipeline, priorities.
They include guests and corporate clients, franchise we have a tremendous opportunity to help make tourism holders and hotel owners, local communities, employees, responsible, from the energy we use, to the economic opportunities shareholders, suppliers, academic institutions, non-government we create and the support we can provide to communities in times organisations, government and industry-specific institutions.
We continue to work with the best and brightest minds in the To calculate the contribution made by IHG hotels, we asked Oxford academic world.
In 2011, IHG senior management met with students Economics to analyse the impact of our operations in the US, UK from Harvard University for an interactive critique of our CR report.
The report estimates that our hotels We also co-sponsored Cornell University to undertake a study support close to two million jobs globally.
Furthermore we know entitled Developing a Sustainability Measurement Framework for that each dollar spent at an IHG hotel multiplies through the Hotels: Toward an Industry-wide Reporting Structure which economy six to seven times.
This reinforces our conviction that proposed a framework for the development of a standard carbon behaving responsibly as a business is not just the right thing to do footprint methodology.
for our communities and the environment: it makes great business As a member of the International Tourism Partnership ITP, and the sense.
World Travel & Tourism Council WTTC, we work with our Bearing this in mind, our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy competitors to share knowledge and resources, develop policy and is based on innovation and collaboration in the areas that make implement programmes that have a positive social, economic and most sense to our business and where we believe we can make environmental impact.
Together we address issues that affect the the most difference, the environment and the community: industry as a whole.
In 2011 we took a lead role in the ITP WTTC Environment driving environmental sustainability through working group seeking to agree a common carbon metric for the Green Engage and our three-year target to reduce energy industry and were able to feed in the results of our work with Cornell.
consumption in our managed and owned estate by between We also supported a working group on human rights issues.
To support the expansion of our community programmes we work Community creating local economic opportunity particularly with expert partners.
On the IHG Academy programme, we worked through the IHG Academy, and by providing disaster relief through with Business in the Community BITC to help us launch our first the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme.
The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme works in partnership with one of the worlds largest disaster relief agencies, Corporate Responsibility Committee CARE International, leading to the development of practical Our CR Committee, formed in 2009, oversees that we have the guidance on how our hotels can support local communities in times right policies, management and measurement systems in place of crisis.
to deliver against our strategy.
The Committee is chaired by Jennifer Laing, a Non-Executive Director.
It met three times in 2011, Environment focusing on the global expansion of the IHG Academy programme, In 2011 we made further inroads in our industry-leading approach the launch of the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme and the to designing, building and operating more sustainable hotels.
ongoing roll-out of Green Engage.
Our CR Committee was also kept We launched version 2.0 of our leading-edge environmental up-to-date on how IHG managed its response to carbon regulation management tool, Green Engage, making it easier to use, adding in the UK, which for the first time in 2011 required the business to more advanced features and developing training and support report the carbon emissions of all UK properties.
materials for our growing user base.
We have established further committees to oversee globallyGreen Engage aligned decisions.
These include our Green Engage Council and Green Engage helps us fulfil our important commitment to monitor, our Community Strategy Committee, both of which met to discuss manage and reduce the carbon footprint of our hotels by providing improvements to, and expansions of, our programmes during 2011. them with relevant information about energy, waste and water Innovation consumption.
In turn, this stops hotels losing money on energy We manage our challenges, particularly in relation to our costs.
Energy is the second biggest cost to our business the environmental impacts, through innovation.
We develop innovative average IHG hotel spends over $500,000 on energy usage each concepts and technologies like our online Innovation Hotel website year.
Green Engage can help hotels become up to 25% more energy which helps us to create what future hotels could look like and how efficient, so it makes environmental and financial sense.
The site allows online guests to tell us what Currently, over 1,700 hotels are signed up to the system.
Through they think of the latest sustainable hotel ideas.
We launched a new it we have made a demonstrable improvement in year-on-year version of the Innovation Hotel in 2011.
The refreshed site now energy reduction, as our 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP showcases real IHG hotel case studies and makes it even easier results prove.
Our score increased by 22 points to 76 out of 100.
This for guests to join the conversation.
reflects the detail we provide about our governance and strategy to We are committed to designing, building and operating more reduce our environmental impacts.
Our aim is to have our entire sustainable hotels through innovation.
By choosing to develop estate using Green Engage over time.
In 2012 we will continue to programmes like Green Engage, we provide our hotel owners with enhance Green Engage with new features including a water guest-focused guidelines for more sustainable hotels.
Green Engage is driving revenue too.
Our research shows that many US and UK frequent travellers prefer hotels which are meaningfully engaged in CR.
We have made it easier for this
