International Power is a diverse group, both in terms of the Our people geographical locations of its businesses and the background of its employees.
At the end of 2011, we employed in excess Following the Combination, International Power of 11,000 people either directly, through our subsidiaries or has an enhanced portfolio and stronger growth share of joint ventures.
profile, which we believe will strengthen our ability to attract, develop and retain highly As a result of our regional management framework and skilled employees.
business ownership structures, our people principles and practices reflect input from the Group, regional and local management.
In joint ventures or when working with associates, International Power is also committed to providing input into employment practices to ensure our general principles are followed.
Our regional management teams are held accountable for managing our operations, to ensure that we respect national cultures and comply with local employment regulations.
Attracting and recruiting employees In our organisation, like many others, getting the right people to join our business is critical for future success.
We seek to attract and retain high calibre employees, including those with specialist qualifications, skills and experience.
We also seek to recruit people who have the potential to develop and meet the advancing needs of the organisation.
The increased global reach of International Power, combined with our strengthened regional presence and excellent career development opportunities, will help ensure that we continue to attract talented employees across the organisation.
The global energy industry faces challenges as the number of engineers and skilled technical operators retiring exceeds the number graduating with engineering degrees and technical experience.
It is important for the sustainability of the business that we are well positioned to attract talented individuals into these positions and that we plan sufficiently to secure the necessary skills in both the short and long-term.
In 2011 we continued to take comprehensive steps to address this issue and we now have a number of initiatives in place to attract and develop talent and enhance our ability to compete in recruitment markets across the world.
We have operations and maintenance, and construction trainee programmes, which run for three years across all International Power regions.
These traineeships are designed for those individuals who have the desire and potential to develop an international career, and they provide the opportunity to learn skills and gain experience in our operations across the world.
Both schemes build the foundations for a long-term career development path which aims to equip individuals with the necessary skills and competencies to take up some of our most senior project and operational roles in the future.
In Latin America, a regional recruitment programme was launched in 2011 across target universities and supported by social media, as part of a structured, proactive approach to manage the future skills and competence needs of the region.
This campaign has seen the appointment of a number of technical, operations and project development graduate trainees in Brazil, Chile, Panama and Peru.
Each appointed trainee will participate in a two-year structured development programme, providing them with the opportunity to complete four 6-month placements in both their home country and other countries within the region.
Early career opportunities also exist in the fields of accounting, tax, strategy and business development.
62 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview North America also operates a successful graduate Managing our talent engineering programme within the generation business and To prepare for the future and to meet the requirements of our leverages its relationships with top universities to ensure the constantly changing business environment, it is critical for attraction of quality talent at early career stages.
International Power to plan ahead and focus on its key skill resources.
As well as attracting and recruiting the right people, In the UK our Engineering Succession Development Programme the management of our existing talent is central to our people continues to be a success.
The first graduates that started the strategy.
Our employees are key to our success and we strive structured development programme in 2010 are progressing to create an environment where they can succeed and grow.
well in their second year, and our journey to accreditation with Understanding, developing and retaining our people are the engineering professional bodies is well underway.
We key priorities and we are committed to providing career also continue to employ a number of apprentices across our development opportunities.
UK plants and have a dedicated project group to oversee the quality and consistency of their training and development.
In 2011 a people review exercise was conducted in all six The structured graduate programme launched in 2008 at our of our regions and in the corporate headquarters.
This annual London headquarters is now in its fourth year and graduates initiative provides information on current strengths and feeds have been recruited and developed in our corporate finance, into action plans designed to ensure suitably qualified and European finance and commercial teams.
This programme skilled individuals are in key job roles both now and in the future.
has already seen a number of graduates successfully transition Central outcomes of this review include proposals for succession to substantive roles within the business.
plans and identification of high potential employees.
Group management trainees are regularly recruited into International Power has taken advantage of the many talent and trainee placements in our Asia and META region.
This development programmes provided by the GDF SUEZ group.
delivers on the need to provide our trainees with international One such programme, designed specifically for high potential experience and enhances the attractiveness of the employees, is Leaders for Tomorrow.
This programme focuses management trainee programme.
on the recognition and development of in-house talent and aims to prepare the next generation of senior executives.
Australia continues successfully to recruit high calibre students Technical know-how and ability to innovate are very important for vacation work and ongoing placements, with a view to to the development and continuity of the business.
To reflect attracting and retaining talent from local universities to support this we also adhere to a policy which recognises and develops succession programmes within the power plants.
The region is technical experts, whilst enabling the transfer of their skills and an active participant in the Australian Power Institute with both knowledge to their successors.
Loy Yang B and Hazelwood power plants providing scholarships and vacation placements in support of this initiative.
Thai National Power Thailand 63 Our people Linked to the overarching priority of ensuring business Our major generation assets in Australia offer numerous continuity and growth, we have a number of regional talent Nationally Accredited Certificates, which include Instrumentation initiatives which complement the wider global initiatives and and Control, Electricity Supply Industry and Traineeships in support International Powers overall people strategy.
For Warehousing and Business Administration.
At Simply Energy, example, in the META region key business critical positions our retail business in the region, the provision of nationally have been identified and in 2011 an initiative aimed at accredited training in customer contact is also available.
2011 developing and building a talent pipeline for each of these has seen the roll out of e-learning programmes for managers positions was launched.
This project, the META Next in both the retail business and regional head office.
Generation, has seen the identification of internal talent pools.
Individuals in these pools will be provided with structured Performance management is critical to the ongoing success development opportunities to help them progress into one and growth of our business.
A number of development and of the critical regional roles.
support activities designed to improve both the performance review process and the related key skills of objective setting, Developing and retaining skills feedback, formal performance appraisal and coaching have taken place for managers in a number of regions, including We recognise that the appropriate skills and dedication of our Latin America and North America.
employees will improve our competitiveness.
During 2011, we invested in developing our employees skill base to meet the The provision of technical training is also essential for the needs of individuals and the organisation.
We are committed growth of our business and continues throughout the Group.
to providing all employees with interesting and challenging We encourage people to study for both national qualifications roles and with opportunities to learn, develop and advance and accredited skills.
A number of safety training initiatives have their careers.
continued in 2011, and the continuing implementation of our new Group safety rules has been successfully supported by Where possible, we encourage internal appointments for comprehensive training to ensure the common application all vacancies in order to give employees a broad range of of safety practices.
The Fresh Eyes programme continues to experience.
Mobility between regions and functions is both concentrate on improving safe behaviour at many of our power encouraged and supported.
International Powers position stations through colleagues observing their peers at work and within the GDF SUEZ group will also present increased career then providing feedback.
development opportunities for our employees, as well as providing us with access to a significantly enlarged talent Reflecting our commitment to employee welfare, we offer pool for succession planning in respect of our critical roles.
employee assistance programmes, comprehensive Developing and challenging employees not only helps occupational health support and health talks and education retain them in the business, but enables effective sessions often supported by local providers at many of succession planning.
As a result of the Combination, International Power benefits Competitive salaries and other benefits and incentive plans from access to the many GDF SUEZ University development are offered to attract and retain talented people in our programmes.
The University operates internationally and organisation.
We continue to operate long-term incentive plans therefore a large number of our employees have attended for appropriate categories of employees.
We view this as an a variety of courses relating to group leadership, business integral part of our strategy to align the interests of staff with the leadership and people leadership, as well as function specific Groups performance, based on clear financial criteria.
Employees have participated in regional programmes in Latin America, North America, Integration of International Power with GDF SUEZ the UK and Asia, as well as a variety of events in France.
Energy International In UK-Europe, we have continued the leadership programme The integration has seen considerable change to both the size for our senior managers, incorporating a 360 feedback and structure of the organisation.
We continued to discuss and element.
The programme is designed to raise awareness of consult with our employees throughout the year to ensure they individual leadership capability and achieve sustained change were regularly updated and given the opportunity to have the through follow-up activity and coaching.
During the course of 2011, as a result of the relocation of some of our regional offices and the In the META region, a number of countries operate a form of restructure of the organisation, some employees chose to leave localisation, whereby employers are required to increase the the business.
The restructured organisation has been designed number of local staff in the workforce over time.
This requires to maximise business effectiveness and efficiency, retaining detailed development initiatives to be in place, and close the key skills and expertise required for the future.
co-operation with external training institutes and government bodies.
In six of our power stations in the META region we have achieved over 50% localisation and we aim to increase this over the next five years.
A two-year project Towards HR Excellence in Operations and Maintenance, commenced in 2011, which will provide additional opportunities for employee development and support the achievement of localisation requirements.
64 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Communicating with employees from the wide-ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all sectors of the societies in which we have a presence.
All International Power employees receive regular Group-wide communications on key business activities and employee In 2011 the International Power Board formally adopted the initiatives.
Newsletters, emails and the internal website are following diversity commitment statement providing endorsement some of the channels through which our employees are kept and leadership from the top on this fundamental issue: informed.
Philip Cox and other senior managers continue to hold employee briefings to communicate key developments The Board of International Power fully recognises the benefits and to provide an opportunity for employees to discuss of diversity and encourages it at all levels of the organisation.
relevant topics with senior management directly.
Regular Accordingly International Power aspires to increase the diversity briefings are also held within our regional operations.
including gender of employees, management, senior executives and Directors across the Group.
We continue to invest in the latest technology to support communication with our colleagues around the world.
During In order to provide rounded leadership to the Groups multi 2011 we continued the development of IPR Connect, an regional presence, International Power seeks to build and intranet-based knowledge platform which is gradually being maintain diversity of nationality and international business rolled out to employees in our regional offices and subsidiaries.
experience and to increase the number of women within the Portals have been designed to provide a platform for Groups management and on the Board.
information sharing for dedicated groups.
Our foremost aspiration is to appoint the most appropriate As part of the GDF SUEZ group, International Power employees candidates to the roles available.
Within the context of our can participate in a number of GDF SUEZ events and initiatives diversity aspirations, we assess capability within the pool aimed at promoting a sense of community and creating a of talent available at the relevant time and in the prevailing united worldwide network.
circumstances whenever we undertake recruitment, promotion within the Company or nomination to management Following the Combination, which more than tripled the number or executive positions.
of International Power employees, internal communications continue to be important for effective change management We maintain a policy of employing the best candidates available and successful support of the integration process.
in every position, regardless of gender, ethnic group or background.
Applications for employment by disabled persons Equal opportunities and diversity in the workplace are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes Recognising the very wide diversity of our employees and of the applicants concerned.
In the event of members of staff business partners across the globe, International Power is becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their fully committed to provision of equal opportunities and the employment with us continues and that appropriate training avoidance of discrimination.
Not only is this the right thing and reasonable adjustments are arranged.
It is our policy that the to do, but it makes sound business sense to seek to benefit training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
