66 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development As a global power generation company we recognise our duty to respect the environment and society in which we operate.
International Power has a responsibility to conduct business with a genuine concern for the world around us.
The key issues related to our activities are: environmental impacts health, safety and security the well-being and development of our employees respect for our business ethics, and our corporate social performance The relevance of these issues to our business is described below.
Cana Brava Brazil 67 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development At a global level, key outcomes of the Durban climate summit in Our approach to corporate social responsibility December 2011 included: a commitment from the EU and eight and sustainable development other nations most notably Australia to extend the existing Corporate social responsibility CSR and sustainable Kyoto protocol: an acceptance by emerging and developing development form an integral part of our business decisioncountries of the principle to limit their emissions and to make an making process and contribute to our competitiveness and agreement by 2015 to enter into force by 2020 to make a new reputation.
Our commitment is to ensure that International treaty which will include all countries and have legal force with Power remains a responsible, efficient and successful Group.
respect to emission reduction targets: and continuation of the Clean Development Mechanism CDM.
It is essential that we operate our business in a manner which is sustainable.
This means we need to retain our competitiveness Measures to control other atmospheric emissions today and continue to take steps so that our business is well Meeting the requirements of the applicable legislation in each positioned for the future.
of the countries in which we operate is a minimum operational requirement.
Many countries are tightening their limits for Within this report we set out: atmospheric emissions such as NOx, SOx and particulate matter, and we respond to these requirements through either Key CSR and sustainable development issues relevant plant modifications or changes in operating regime.
to International Power Our framework to manage CSR and sustainable development Biodiversity As a global Group we are active in some parts of the world with Key regional developments in climate change and a rich biodiversity this is particularly the case in Latin America.
environmental regulation Any potential impacts of our operations on biodiversity are Highlights of our non-financial performance assessed prior to the development of a project and then monitored during the operations.
We take our responsibility Our CSR and sustainable development priorities for 2012 regarding biodiversity very seriously, utilising effective measures to protect biodiversity and restore habitats.
Key CSR and sustainable development issues relevant to International Power Use of natural resources Fossil fuels in the form of coal, gas and fuel oil are key natural Following the Combination, International Power has a much resources that we use.
We constantly strive to improve the larger portfolio encompassing new geographical locations and efficiency of our power stations to minimise the amount of fuel some new technologies.
In considering the key issues relevant used for each unit of electricity generated.
to International Power, we have taken into account the enlarged portfolio of activities.
As a result of the Combination, International Power now Environment has 215MW gross 173MW net of biomass generating capacity.
Climate change and the regulation of carbon dioxide CO 2 We recognise the importance of sustainable and responsible and other greenhouse gases GHG emissions sourcing of biofuel for these plants, such as certified International Power has developed a sustainable and pragmatic wood pellets.
strategy to address the key challenges for the power generation sector, namely the reduction of GHG emissions and the need Recycling of waste materials and by-products is another for affordable power and security of supply.
We recycle oil and we sell waste materials for other uses, such as pulverised fuel ash and gypsum a Climate change and the need for reduction in GHG emissions by-product of the flue gas desulphurisation FGD process.
particularly CO is, and will continue to be, at the top of the 2 global environmental agenda.
The measures necessary to The abstraction of fresh water by power stations also combat global climate change represent one of the biggest represents a significant use of natural resources.
In thermal challenges for our business.
Government actions across the plants water is used mainly for cooling, and consumption varies world to reduce CO and GHG emissions will, over time, 2 significantly across our portfolio depending on the geographic increase the cost of emitting carbon.
These measures will alter location of the plant and cooling systems employed.
Many the economic balance between different fuels, favouring less of our plants, which are located in areas where fresh water carbon intensive and renewable technologies.
Methane is also resources are limited, use sea water or dry cooling systems a significant GHG and the potential for emissions from our gas to dramatically reduce the quantity of fresh water required.
terminals and pipelines, and hydroelectric reservoirs must also be carefully controlled.
Along with these challenges will come In Latin America we have a number of large-scale hydroelectric new business opportunities to invest further in renewable plants and take appropriate measures to manage any impacts energy and other lower carbon technologies.
of these plants on local water resources.
Large hydro projects and gas pipelines may also occupy a significant area.
We ensure that such impacts are appropriately assessed and mitigated during project development and operation.
68 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility Health, safety and security Our framework to manage CSR and sustainable Excellent health, safety and security performance is critical for development our business.
It is important to provide all personnel at our sites CSR and sustainable development matters relating to International with a safe and secure place to work, and we seek to avoid any Powers activities are governed by the Executive Team, with injuries to our staff, our contractors and our visitors.
Strong the CEO having overall responsibility.
The CEO is assisted by the performance has a beneficial impact on our operations and COO, the Head of Health and Safety, Environment and Security, our business as a whole.
It is also vital that we ensure the safety and by the Head of Strategy and Sustainable Development.
of our plants and the security of our staff and our assets.
Regular briefings are given by the Executive Team to the Board, which also receives a summary of Group-wide HS&E issues Employees in the annual risk report.
The Board HS&E Committee provides We endorse the United Nations Universal Declaration on a corporate focus and leadership for these health, safety and Human Rights and this is supported by our Ethics Charter environment issues.
The Company Secretary and General and human resources policies.
We have applied human rights Counsel is responsible for International Powers Charities principles rigorously for our own employees, and seek to Committee activities.
influence our partners, contractors and suppliers to apply the same standards.
The Ethics Charter, which applies to Executive Directors of International Power and key staff within our all International Power employees, sets out the rules which business units have received training in corporate governance, all employees are expected to follow and these include corporate responsibility and the Equator Principles.
compliance with our ethical, and health, safety and environmental HS&E policies.
Our ethics policies cover Equator Principles www.
com competitive practices, conduct at work and in the community, charitable donations, and put emphasis on the importance of Day-to-day management of CSR and sustainable development compliance with anti-bribery requirements as per the Boards is performed by the Regional CEOs, supported by their Anti-Bribery Policy Statement.
respective COOs and Heads of Strategy, the plant managers and their employees.
Their work is overseen by the global and Effective internal communication during the post-Combination regional HS&E management committees, by the Strategy and integration process has been essential to ensure that our Sustainable Development functional line and by the Human employees receive accurate information on the Groups Resources department.
In addition, the Board through its strategic agenda, major initiatives, corporate developments HS&E Committee provided high level oversight and direction.
and position on industrial issues.
Being well-informed is a key All employees are expected to play a role in enhancing driver in ensuring that employees feel respected and valued International Powers position as a responsible business.
and become engaged in Group initiatives.
To support International Powers commitment to conducting Business ethics and society business in compliance with ethical requirements and antiWe place particular emphasis on respect for the environment bribery laws and regulations, specific structures have been and society in which we live and operate, and we are put in place.
In particular, a Non-Executive Director is committed to conducting our business with a genuine concern specifically charged with closely monitoring, on behalf of the for the world around us, in particular where our business has Board, the ethical compliance of International Power.
a dedicated ethics and compliance role has been included in the remit of International Powers legal department.
Local business customs and practice vary considerably from These structures aim to ensure that the ethical dimension place to place but, as a business, it is our principle to operate is incorporated into International Powers vision, strategy, responsibly and with ethical integrity throughout the world.
We take our societal responsibilities seriously.
We aim to enhance the communities in which we operate and to ensure that our employees are well treated.
Where we share ownership of a plant we encourage our partners, and during the construction phase our contractors, to adopt our approach, typically through influence at project level board meetings and contractual arrangements.
69 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development Stakeholder engagement Health, safety and environmental HS&E management International Power engages with its key stakeholders across The global HS&E management committee reviews the overall the business regarding environmental and social issues.
HS&E performance of businesses across the Group and defines Such engagement includes the following groups: global HS&E standards and targets.
The global committee is supported by regional HS&E committees, which include the local community through the environmental and representation from each business within the relevant regions.
social impact assessment process carried out during the development of new assets, and through ongoing community The Board HS&E Committee oversees HS&E policy and engagement activities such as the building and the ongoing performance, and the effectiveness of the global and regional funding of schooling and medical facilities HS&E management committees.
It reviews HS&E reports, as regulators through meetings and information sharing well as any major incidents and issues of concern, including initiatives, such as the Joint Environment Programme with near-misses.
During 2011 the Committee met in May at the the UK Environment Agency and the Energy Sector Working International Power head office in London and in November Group established by the federal government in Australia at the First Hydro plant in Wales.
The Committee toured the First Hydro site, reviewed HS&E matters and met with the plant key suppliers through the application of the Ethics Charter manager and staff.
and our procurement policy to tendering processes and through monitoring of construction projects to ensure that Maintaining HS&E standards applicable health, safety, security, social and environmental Our Internal Audit Team includes HS&E management within the policies and procedures are met scope of its audits of operational businesses.
The frequency employees through regular structured HS&E meetings, of audits depends upon the Teams assessment of risk, which training, more informal communications through the intranet includes operational indicators, risk factors and historical IPR Connect and through CEO and COO briefings coverage and findings.
The Internal Audit Team includes staff with extensive HS&E practical experience and knowledge and the investment community through regular informative additional technical support may be sourced from within the and transparent meetings with our principal shareholders Group, or externally where necessary.
International Power and analysts also works with partners to ensure that joint ventures and lenders through the application of social and associates receive an equally rigorous audit regime.
Findings environmental standards, such as the Equator Principles are reported to the CEO, Executive Team and the Audit Committee.
In addition, International Power plants have customers through active dialogue and constructive participated in GDF SUEZ group audits which focus on responses to customer queries issue-specific themes which are applied across the whole of the wider GDF SUEZ group.
Compliance with the Equator Principles has become a major aspect of project development.
These principles are a Third party auditors assess our plants against the certification benchmark for lenders regarding the management of social criteria required for environmental and safety management and environmental risks in project financing.
They require systems, such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, and for the social and environmental impacts of major projects compliance with the EUETS CO emissions reporting 2 to be assessed and managed according to internationally requirements.
At the end of December 2011 approximately recognised standards.
They cover a range of issues including 88% of our gross generation from plants where we have anti-corruption principles, workers rights, resettlement, control, or joint control over financial decisions and operational indigenous peoples and cultural heritage, as well as environmental activities, was covered by ISO 14001 certified environmental issues such as pollution control.
International Power Executive management systems.
Deloitte LLP has provided Limited Team members and business developers have been provided Assurance of the 2011 HS&E data in the tables on pages 74 and with training on how the Equator Principles may influence 78 of this report in accordance with International Standard on project development.
Their procedures have included a review of our data monitoring and calculation processes and of the consolidation of this information, as well as conducting selected site visits.
The related assurance statement is available on the International Power website.
com  environment environmental-data 70 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility Summary of key policies and positions relating to CSR and sustainable development during 2011 Environment We strive for excellence in environmental performance through legal compliance, implementation of environmental management systems, stakeholder engagement and the efficient use of natural resources.
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental technology at our new plants and seek to upgrade older plants where economically viable.
Health and safety We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance through management commitment, legislative compliance, auditable management systems and continuing stakeholder engagement.
Ethics We conduct our business in accordance with our ethical standards: compliance with laws and regulations, integrity, fairness, honesty and respect for others.
We seek to observe local societal norms and values, customs and business practices, so long as in doing so we do not breach our ethics standards.
In such cases we would seek to lead with new, higher, local standards.
Anti-bribery We do not tolerate bribery or any other form of corrupt business behaviour.
We are committed to conducting business in full compliance with anti-bribery laws and regulations, and everyone who acts for International Power is expected to apply the highest standards of integrity to all their activities and to comply fully with our ethical principles, policies, procedures and processes.
CSR Our aim is to ensure that International Power is known throughout the world as a responsible, efficient and successful company and is recognised as such by our stakeholders.
We strive to protect and enhance the circumstances of our employees, the environment and our host communities.
CO We seek to improve efficiency at our existing plants and build high efficiency plants when we develop greenfield 2 projects.
We use the most efficient technology that is compatible with the customers requirements and specification.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to expand our renewable portfolio and make investments in emerging technologies that we think have potential.
Employees We believe in fairness and equal opportunities for all our employees or applicants, regardless of gender, race, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, age or disability.
International Power encourages employees or others with serious concerns about any aspect of work to come forward and express those concerns on a confidential basis, without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Policies International Power has successfully used the CDM to support International Power aims to protect the environment and new low carbon energy investments.
So far, four projects have the host communities who trust us to do our job safely, been registered under this initiative.
These include the Lages competently and efficiently.
In order to achieve this we have biomass plant in Brazil, the operating wind farms Elica formal policies relating to the environment, health and safety, Guanacaste in Costa Rica and Elica Monte Redondo in Chile, ethics and anti-bribery.
A summary of these policies, and and the Quitaracsa hydropower plant in Peru which is currently our position with respect to some other key elements of CSR under construction.
Other hydropower projects such as Dos and sustainable development, are set out in the table above.
Mares in Panama, Laja in Chile and Jirau, as well as five other wind power plants in Brazil are currently being validated or structured under the CDM.
Key regional developments in climate change and environmental regulation Since early 2008 Brazil has adopted policies to promote a Global and national responses to climate change represent a low carbon expansion of the electricity supply industry.
These key business challenge for International Power.
The monitoring include being given priority in the planning, licensing and of our impact, and the development of our position towards contracting of renewable energies, in combination with loan climate change and environmental legislation are critical.
conditions that provide a comparative advantage to renewable Although the speed of development of such regulation varies and low carbon technologies.
throughout the regions in which we operate, we actively engage in advocating our position during any legislative process.
Chile requires power generators to have an increasing The regulation in our core regions continues to evolve, and percentage of the electricity sold under PPAs signed after a brief summary of the position as at 7 February 2012 is set August 2007 to be obtained from non-conventional renewable out below.
In general, the summaries below focus primarily on energy sources like biomass, hydropower of less than 40MW, CO regulation, as this is the most significant to our business.
2 solar, wind, tidal and cogeneration.
This mechanism, in Other forms of environmental regulation are referred to conjunction with the CDM, provides an effective economic in those regions where they are potentially significant.
incentive for renewable energies such as our Laja I hydropower plant and Elica Monte Redondo wind farm.
Our operational Latin America company in Chile, E-CL, has integrated this legal requirement Recently, policies have been implemented to promote into its commercial operations to optimise its position.
increasing participation of hydropower and non-conventional Moreover, in July 2011, a new law was signed in Chile, setting energies such as biomass, small hydropower and wind.
So new limits on emissions of particulate matter, NOx and SOx far, the CDM has been the fundamental mechanism to finance starting in 2013, 2015 and 2016.
In order to be compliant GHG reduction projects, but recently Brazil, Chile, Peru and with the law, E-CL has already started to upgrade its plants Costa Rica have also defined National Appropriate Mitigation U12-13-14-15 and CTM1-2, committing US$162 million of Activities NAMAs and communicated them to the United capital expenditure over the 2011-2015 period.
Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change UNFCCC as part of the Copenhagen accords.
As a result, both CDM and recent policies developed in the context of the NAMAs provide an important opportunity for further clean energy investments in the region.
71 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development Business risks from emerging environmental regulations in In December 2011, the Court of Appeal issued an order staying Latin America are considered to be low, taking into account the Cross State Air Pollution Rule CSAPR pending a decision on nature of our portfolio and development pipeline, and proven the merits of various appeals and petitions filed.
In the interim, capacity to materialise the positive aspects of regulatory the court ordered that the EPA continues to enforce the Clean changes.
In addition, International Power adopts the Air Interstate Rule CAIR, a cap and trade programme for International Finance Corporations Performance Standards nitrogen oxides NOx and sulphur dioxide SO, until a final 2 on Social and Environmental Sustainability in its projects, decision can be made on the rule, which is likely to be August promoting the use of good sustainability practices.
When the final rule is implemented in 2014, power plants will need to reduce their SO emissions by 73% and their NO 2 2 North America emissions by 54% from 2005 levels.
Our plants in New England and New York continue to participate in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI.
Also in December, the EPA signed a final rule setting forth RGGI is a programme that sets carbon reduction levels for a mercury and air toxics standards MATS for power plants.
ten-state area in the northeastern US and requires certificates By 2016 utilities will be required to reduce mercury output by to be obtained for any carbon emissions.
At the federal level, 90%, acid gas by 88%, and implement particulate emissions the development of carbon legislation has stalled.
Like CSAPR, several lawsuits have been Environmental Protection Agency EPA announced on filed against EPA for the Utility MATS, leaving the final 15 September 2011 that it is delaying release of its New Source implementation date uncertain.
Performance Standards for greenhouse gas emissions for the electric utility sector.
We continue to monitor proposed new and modified environmental regulations, and provide comments on the proposed changes when warranted.
Based on this in-depth awareness of the regulatory climate, we continue to believe that the overall efficiency and low carbon intensity of our US power generation fleet is well positioned in the face of new environmental regulations.
The rapid growth of our wind portfolio in Canada demonstrates how we have recognised and responded to the positive aspects of regulatory changes.
Canunda Australia 72 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility UK-Europe Asia The EU has issued a roadmap to a low-carbon economy with There is no imminent carbon legislation in Asia expected a view to cutting the EUs greenhouse emissions by at least 80% to have a significant impact on our business.
Our project by 2050 compared with 1990 levels.
Energy efficiency and companies operate primarily under long-term PPAs, some clean electricity will both contribute to this.
More immediately, of which have change of law protection which would enable Phase III of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme us to pass on carbon costs to the offtaker or would allow EUETS commences in 2013.
Phase III is expected to deliver compensation via a tariff review.
Policies to encourage the two-thirds of the EUs 20% emissions reduction target by 2020 development of renewable generation technologies are also on 1990 levels.
An important aspect for the generation sector being introduced in some countries in the region, such as is that the majority of fossil-fuelled plant will not receive the free Indonesia and Thailand.
allocation of carbon certificates that was available in the previous phases.
Instead allowances for the power sector with Australia limited exceptions which do not apply to International Powers The Australian Parliament passed legislation in November 2011 plants will have to be bought through auction.
that will result in the introduction of a carbon tax in Australia from 1 July 2012.
The Clean Energy Future legislation will International Powers Continental European thermal plants are introduce an A$23 per tonne escalated carbon tax for a fixed operating under long-term contracts with the ability to pass on term of three years, before a form of emissions trading begins carbon costs to the offtaker.
Therefore, our main risk exposure on 1 July 2015.
The legislation also provides for assistance relates to our UK plants.
We have a trading desk to cover the arrangements for households, communities and industry, along EUETS requirements and manage compliance obligations with support for low emissions technology and innovation.
A new A$10 billion Clean Energy Finance Corporation will The UK Government has unilaterally introduced a carbon invest in the commercialisation and deployment of renewable floor price to operate in addition to the EUETS.
It is being energy, energy efficiency and low emission technologies implemented through removing the current exemption to the excluding carbon capture and storage.
The fund will Climate Change Levy on fuels used to generate electricity commence from 2013. and will apply from April 2013.
An Energy Security Fund has been established to provide The other major environmental regulatory measure in Europe is transitional assistance to highly emissions-intensive, coal-fired the Industrial Emissions Directive IED which comes into force power stations in Australia.
The assistance will be a in 2016 for existing plant and requires improved emissions to air combination of cash and permits over a six-year period standards.
We are working towards those requirements, with a commencing in June 2012. number of options under review, such as firing with biomass to The Government will also seek to negotiate the closure of reduce or replace coal.
Our growth pipeline in the UK focuses around 2,000MW of very highly emissions-intensive, coal-fired primarily on renewable generation opportunities and reflects generation capacity by 2020.
We have advised the Government our ability to respond to regulatory changes.
of our willingness to participate in the contract for closure programme and submitted a non-binding expression of interest Middle East, Turkey & Africa META in October 2011 in relation to the Hazelwood plant in Victoria Our project companies in the META region operate primarily which has been short-listed.
Formal submission of bids and under long-term power purchase agreements PPAs and power negotiations will be ongoing during the first half of 2012.
The and water purchase agreements PWPAs.
The offtake Governments intention is to conclude contractual negotiations agreements generally have change of law protection, which by 30 June 2012, prior to the commencement of the Clean would enable the project company to pass on carbon costs to Energy Future carbon scheme.
the offtaker, provided such costs arise from legal requirements imposed by a competent authority after the date of execution of the PPA or PWPA.
Policies to promote the development of renewable generation capacity are being introduced in some countries in the region and we are actively pursuing the opportunities presented, wind projects in Morocco being one example.
73 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development CO by region 2 Highlights of our non-financial performance Total CO 000 tonnes kg kWh equivalent We measure the effectiveness of our CSR and sustainable 2 development actions through the use of non-financial Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended performance indicators.
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 For further details of the basis of reporting of these Latin America 7,414 9,081 0.232 0.278 North America 19,871 21,323 0.511 0.532 non-financial performance indicators please refer to UK-Europe 8,152 8,441 0.390 0.390 our HS&E performance report.
com Australia 23,368 23,333 1.226 1.254  health-and-safety Notes: The pro forma results presented above assume that the Combination, which completed on Environment data 3 February 2011, occurred on 1 January 2010.
The reporting perimeter comprises all plants where we have control or joint control over financial decisions and operational activities.
This includes subsidiaries and joint ventures but excludes associates and projects under Pro forma Pro forma Year ended Year ended construction.
A list of International Power subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown 31 December 31 December on pages 205 to 207 of this report.
2011 2010 The electricity output and emissions figures above are based on net MWs of capacity owned Total electricity output GWh 140,570 138,795 during the year and exclude associates.
Associates make up approximately 13% of net generation capacity.
CO emissions 2 The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy Total 000 tonnes 76,163 77,570 used to produce desalinated water and steam at various plants.
Figures for equivalent kg kWh equivalent 0.518 0.521 electricity output at these plants have been calculated to reflect this.
SO2 emissions Total 000 tonnes 125 158 The graphs opposite and table above show how CO emissions 2 kg kWh equivalent 0.00085 0.00106 intensity in 2011 varied across the six regions.
Emissions NOx emissions from thermal power stations depend on the fuel they burn, Total 000 tonnes 88 81 the thermal efficiency of the units and the operating regime they kg kWh equivalent 0.00060 0.00054 work under.
Hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, inherently Particulate emissions produce less CO per unit of energy compared to coal.
2 Total 000 tonnes 9 10 Modern plants tend to be more efficient due to continuing kg kWh equivalent 0.00006 0.00006 improvements in technology.
Number of significant TENCs KPI 1 6 Fines 3 2 In general, emissions from the International Power portfolio reflect regional trends.
In Latin America a range of generation Notes: technologies are employed, including gas, oil and coal, but The pro forma results presented above assume that the Combination, which completed on over 12% of generation capacity 14% net is from renewable 3 February 2011, occurred on 1 January 2010.
sources such as hydro and wind, which is reflected in the very This includes subsidiaries and joint ventures but excludes associates and projects under low emissions intensity for the region.
In North America our fleet construction.
A list of International Power subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown on pages 205 to 207 of this report.
consists of mostly highly efficient gas-fired plants and this helps The electricity output and emissions figures above are based on net MWs of capacity owned to offset the higher emissions intensity of Coleto Creek and during the year and exclude associates.
Associates make up approximately 13% of net other smaller coal-fired plants.
In UK-Europe there are a variety generation capacity.
of fuels and technologies in the portfolio, and our European The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water and steam at various plants.
Figures for equivalent renewables portfolio contributed to the relatively low emissions electricity output at these plants have been calculated to reflect this.
The Middle East, Turkey & Africa Significant TENCs are defined as higher than permitted pollution levels, or a lack of portfolio is comprised largely of modern and efficient gas-fired precautions which could potentially result in a risk to the environment, and for which the budget for recovery exceeds 150,000. plants, and some of these make effective use of fuel by using Fines are defined as court rulings which resulted in a fine.
waste heat from generation to produce desalinated water, Significant TENCs and fines are reported on a 100% basis, regardless of ownership which reduces the emissions intensity.
The European wind portfolio is currently excluded from these figures.
stations burn a range of fuels including gas, coal and oil.
We also have a 153MW gross 71MW net hydro plant in Laos.
Climate change and the management of CO emissions 2 The emissions intensity for Asia reflects this fuel mix.
Carbon intensity We measure the carbon intensity of the electricity generated across our portfolio, and also the electricity equivalent of energy used to generate products such as desalinated water and process heat.
74 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility 2011 regional CO emissions intensity, compared to regional 2 Australia relies heavily on coal which accounts for some 80% net MW by fuel type of the national electricity generation.
Our Hazelwood and Loy 1.226 Yang B plants in Victoria were built to burn the abundant local brown coal, which produces higher CO emissions due to the 2 higher moisture content of brown coal and results in a relatively high CO emissions intensity.
However, emission intensities 2 from these plants are similar to those of the other major power generators in Victoria.
Whilst we measure the carbon intensity of our output, and seek 0.511 0.478 0.481 to reduce it, International Power does not have a specific target 0.390 for reducing total CO emissions.
There are three principal 2 Middle reasons for this.
Firstly, we are a growing business and any 0.232 East, fossil fuel stations we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate Latin North Turkey America America UK-Europe & Africa Asia Australia CO emissions level.
Secondly, we are a demand-led industry 2 we are obligated to generate electricity to meet customer demand and we are committed to ensuring the security of kg kWh equivalent supply.
Finally, the choice of fuel is often dependent upon client specifications which for new-build plants are specified during the bidding process and the most economic and secure fuel available in the local market.
39,757,356 Following the Combination, the overall CO emissions intensity 2 of the International Power portfolio is 0.518 kg kWh equivalent.
32,577,661 We actively seek to manage and reduce our CO emissions, 2 and have outlined our strategy below.
21,156,578 Managing CO emissions 2 18,650,169 18,081,445 Our strategy to manage CO emissions has four core strands: 2 15,948,279 t o generate electricity efficiently t o invest in low carbon forms of fossil fuel generation Middle East, t o expand our renewables portfolio Latin North Turkey America America UK-Europe & Africa Asia Australia t o help our customers to reduce their CO emissions 2 Net MW We install high efficiency generating plant with proven Gas environmental technology at our new power stations to enable Coal us to produce electricity competitively and with low emissions.
Hydro For example the Barka 3 and Sohar 2 plants currently under Wind solar construction in Oman both employ Siemens SGT5-4000F gas Oil Biomass biogass turbine technology in combination with heat recovery steam Pumped storage generators and steam turbines.
This technology provides high thermal efficiencies in excess of 57%, even at the high ambient temperature conditions prevalent in the Middle East.
We review the thermal efficiency at our power stations in all regions and implement improvement programmes.
These range from steam turbine upgrades, improving combustion conditions and reducing the electricity used on site.
An evaluation of currently available alternatives for reducing the CO intensity of power 2 generation was initiated by the COO in October 2011 and best practice is being shared across the International Power Group.
During 2011, the GT11 turbine at our Pelican Point plant was upgraded with MXL blades, resulting in improved cycle efficiency and extended overhaul intervals.
At Loy Yang B a number of improvements have been carried out including a new station air compressor, station lighting power reduction, installation of more efficient pumps, reduction of excess combustion air in the boiler, optimisation of electrostatic precipitator power usage, upgrading of the Unit 1 turbine rotor, and improved generator efficiency by operating at lower temperatures.
75 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development The Combination has contributed significant additional Our energy resources business in the US promotes sustainable renewable capacity to the Group.
This now makes up 14% of net operations by helping its customers make the most of the generation capacity, primarily through hydro and wind assets intersection between fiscal and environmental responsibility.
in Latin America, UK-Europe and North America.
We are also These services include demand response programmes continuing to develop renewable capacity.
In April 2011, official which provide companies with cash payments for the ability authorisation for the commercial operation of the 1,087MW to temporarily reduce their non-essential power usage during gross 300MW net Estreito hydropower plant in Brazil was periods of high demand, cost performance programmes received.
In Chile, phase two of the Monte Redondo wind farm which offer ways to optimise the financial opportunities was inaugurated in February 2011, which is the countrys of energy efficiency incentives and energy audits which second largest, with an output of 48MW gross and net, and in identify potential energy conservation measures that can Indonesia International Power has entered into a joint venture lead to substantial energy savings.
agreement with Marubeni for the development of the 220MW Rantau Dedap geothermal project in Sumatra.
The principle of Measures to control other atmospheric emissions geothermal plant is to extract heat from deep underground and The impact of the forthcoming EU IED is being considered for transform it to electricity at surface level.
Power generated in this all our European plants covered by this legislation.
The biggest way has zero carbon emissions and has the advantage of being impact of the IED on our plants will be the reduction of NOx available on demand and is not influenced by the weather.
emissions from coal-fired power plants, and we are currently evaluating the feasibility of co-firing with biomass in the future In the UK we have made good progress with developing onshore to meet IED limits at our Rugeley plant.
The 2.4MW gross and net Crimp wind farm, located in Cornwall, commenced operations in April 2011, and Across the Group our assets have continued to make plant the 20MW gross and net Craigengelt wind farm in Scotland upgrades on a smaller scale to continue to improve performed well throughout 2011.
We now have a substantial environmental performance.
In the US, the Hopewell generation onshore wind development pipeline in the UK, which amounts facility achieved the Environmental Best Practices Award from to some 400MW.
the industry trade publication, Combined Cycle Journal, for its initiative to reduce the plants NOx emissions during start-up.
This achieved reductions of more than 40 tonnes and saved nearly US$40,000 during the year.
Everett US 76 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility Biodiversity Our Jorge Lacerda coal-fired plant in southern Brazil has We ensure that any potential impacts of our development carried out extensive studies into the use of ash as a cement projects and ongoing operations are properly assessed product and also to remediate land contaminated by the and understood, and that appropriate measures are in place activities of previous site occupants.
Since 2000 over 8 million to manage biodiversity conservation or restoration.
tonnes of ash have been processed in this way.
Improvements to ash handling at this plant have also achieved significant There are numerous examples of best practice across the reductions in water use.
For example, Tractebel Energia received the 2010 Brazil Ambiental award for its management of the Fritz Plaumann In Latin America as part of the environmental offset for Forest Park.
Created at the initiative of the American Chamber project implementation, through various programmes and of Commerce, this prize awards environmental conservation partnerships, our Tractebel Energia business supports the projects and application of ecologically responsible practices creation and maintenance of environmental conservation parks by Brazilian companies.
Located in the far south of the country, in areas surrounding its hydro electric reservoirs.
For example, on the Uruguay River, the Fritz Plaumann Forest Park covers the Tiexeira Soares Uraguay River Forest Municipal Park covers 741 hectares and is a sanctuary of biodiversity.
It has been 426 hectares in the vicinity of our It hydro electric plant in Brazil.
co-managed by Tractebel Energia since 2005, in partnership with the Environmental Agency and other local partners.
International Power is one of the largest producers of desalinated water in the world, and in the Middle East our desalination plants Use of natural resources make a major contribution to the public water supply.
In 2011 our corporate environmental objectives promoted the adoption of resource efficiency savings at our power stations.
Fly and bottom ashes make up the majority of waste from our operations and exploring alternatives to landfill disposal has been a key focus for our coal-fired plants.
European wind portfolio 77 Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development Health and safety Employees A variety of training and development opportunities are Pro forma Pro forma provided for employees across the Group.
There are a number Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December of local and global programmes designed to improve people 2011 2010 leadership, business leadership and functional capabilities, 1 Accident frequency rate 1.11 0.81 including health and safety programmes to enhance Employee fatalities performance in this area.
Following the Combination, we continue to communicate through a variety of channels Notes: including management briefings, functional forums and The pro forma results presented above assume that the Combination, which completed on 3 February 2011, occurred on 1 January 2010.
The reporting perimeter comprises all our intranet site.
plants where we have control or joint control of financial decisions and operational activities.
This includes subsidiaries and joint ventures but excludes associates and projects under construction.
A list of International Power subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is Business ethics and social performance shown on pages 205 to 207 of this report.
Our business partners range from governments and The data is reported on a 100% basis regardless of ownership percentage.
multinational organisations through to local and small energy 1 The European wind portfolio is currently excluded from this reporting.
providers, whose ultimate customers rely on the generation of electricity for their well-being.
Local business customs and practice may vary considerably but it is important that we We are committed to the best possible health and safety operate in accordance with our ethical standards as defined performance.
Our key performance indicator KPI in 2011 was in our Ethics Charter throughout the world.
the employee accident frequency rate AFR which is defined as the number of lost time accidents LTAs divided by the We do not fund political activities in the EU.
Outside the EU number of hours worked by the employees of the Company, its we only do so where such funding is part of the local societal subsidiaries and joint ventures, multiplied by one million.
We practices and provided that there is a local law which explicitly have defined an LTA as a person being absent from work for one authorises and organises such funding.
The funding of political or more subsequent working days or shifts excluding the day activities rarely occurs at International Power and is in all cases or shift when the accident occurred due to injury or ill health kept to fide minimis amounts, and seeks to avoid partisan or sustained at work.
We have detailed lessons learned from all one-sided attitudes.
Within that framework, our subsidiaries accidents, and we have a wide range of proactive measures outside the EU made contributions to non-EU political parties in place to improve our performance.
for an aggregate amount of less than 13,000 in 2011.
It is important to provide all personnel at our sites with a safe Our donations in 2011 for charitable purposes were numerous.
place to work, and we seek to minimise any injuries to our Our Corporate organisations charitable contributions are staff.
In order to help us improve our understanding and decided by our Charities Committee.
Details on the good management of health and safety at our sites, in 2011 we causes supported by International Power plc through the expanded H&S reporting mechanisms to include the enlarged Charities Committee, are set out on page 79 of this report portfolio, and analysis of the data is highlighting where we please refer to the section regarding corporate charitable need to focus our efforts.
The Combination has resulted in an giving.
The total amount contributed by International Power plc increase in the scale and number of major construction projects in 2011 in that regard was 118,000. in International Power and consequently of the potential H&S risks.
Regrettably, there have been 13 contractor fatalities, The contributions to charitable causes made by our various mainly at our construction sites in Latin America.
We are operational organisations in 2011 amounted to approximately determined to improve the safety performance of contractors 190,000 in the UK, of which 27,000 were contributed by on our construction projects.
We are conducting a review of the UK-Europe regional head office, and to approximately our H&S management of major construction projects and this 2 million outside the UK, and were in support of a vast range work will continue into 2012.
Our behavioural safety programme of charitable causes, including advancement of health for known as Fresh Eyes, has now been running for four years and youth, relief for elderly persons, community development, is widely adopted at many of our plants across the International support in case of natural disasters, support of local culture, Power portfolio.
More of our plants in Asia and META are now education of children, support of local sports initiatives, starting to implement the Fresh Eyes programme.
advancement of the artistic talents of children, support to students, advancement of heritage, advancement of science, The enlargement of the portfolio has led to reviews of the and donations to aid organisations.
International Power global health and safety governance documentation.
These documents now reflect GDF SUEZ H&S policy.
Revised Group safety rules Lock Out Tag Out systems have been introduced at most of our UK assets and are being progressively introduced in our META region in order to ensure a consistent and robust approach to managing permit to work systems.
78 International Power Annual Report 2011 Corporate responsibility Further, in addition to charitable giving, we generally support Our CSR and sustainable development the communities in which we operate by acting as a responsible priorities for 2012 employer and neighbour, by supporting the improvement of The Rio 20 Summit will focus particular attention on sustainable local amenities, and by sponsoring local initiatives.
In that development issues in 2012. International Power will take the regard, our global support to the communities where we are opportunity to share aspects of our activities we will be actively active, amounted to over 7.5 million in 2011.
Employees also engaged in the summit through our affiliates and as part of the give their time freely within their communities, offering support GDF SUEZ group.
We encourage our staff to participate wherever possible and back them fully in their endeavours.
We are committed to running our business in a responsible manner and taking into account our obligations to all our One of International Powers CSR goals in Chile is to support stakeholders.
This includes making sound investments education in areas where business is conducted.
Through our of resources to improve the environmental performance subsidiary Parque Elico Monte Redondo, an agreement was of our plants and the broader non-financial performance made in March 2010 with the Center for Atacama Desert of our business.
Studies to develop an environmental education programme in the most isolated areas of the Coquimbo region.
As a result In setting our priorities for 2012, our overriding aim is to ensure educational workshops are being delivered in 2011.
One that we adopt and promote best practice from the Group in example of the kind of activity organised by this programme managing the enlarged portfolio.
In doing so, we will actively was the installation of fog catchers at the top of Cerro Grande participate and contribute to GDF SUEZ group sustainable in Pea Blanca.
Fog catchers are used to capture fog and development objectives.
transform it into water, an extremely important resource in the desert, where water is so scarce.
Environment Implementing the corporate management objectives for the Corporate charitable giving enlarged portfolio, and reviewing the management reporting The International Power Charities Committee assesses requests process will be a priority.
An assessment of the strengths and and makes awards in response to applications for assistance weaknesses of the existing environmental management from a variety of charities and good causes.
It is also responsible framework will also be carried out.
Requirements for plants for selecting the Companys community-based nominated to assess biodiversity risk and, where appropriate, develop charities and Flagship Projects.
biodiversity actions plans are being introduced for our UK-Europe region.
International Power has supported three major charities from our corporate centre.
During 2011, these were Crisis, Sight Health and safety Savers and Renewable World formerly the Koru Foundation.
The plants comprising the enlarged portfolio have well Further information about our relationship with these charities established and effective health and safety management is available on our website.
Our aim is to ensure that we share, adopt and promote the best policies, procedures and practices from In 2011 we operated a Give As You Earn scheme to facilitate across the enlarged Group.
Establishing mandatory corporate personal charity donations by our employees.
We also requirements for the combined business on both a corporate matched monies that our employees raise for charity.
and regional basis will continue to be a key focus, as will the development of consistent methods of recording and reporting Flagship Projects data.
Additionally, a H&S management review of our major International Powers Flagship Project programme has been construction projects has begun and is continuing this year.
This scheme selects community projects, nominated by staff, to be corporately funded annually by Employees International Power.
Flagship Projects can range in size and Our priority is to keep staff members informed about the progress scope, but they all have a common goal, to improve the quality and priorities for the business and to attract and retain valuable of life in the community.
The concentrated efforts of all staff at skills.
We will continue to work to harmonise our policies International Power in 2011 in connection with the Combination, and processes, particularly in the areas of CSR and talent led the Charities Committee to decide not to launch any new management.
We will continue to adopt and promote best Flagship Projects in the Combination year, but to roll over the practices from across the Group and the wider GDF SUEZ group.
2011 budget to the 2012 Flagship Project programme.
Business ethics and social performance We aim to ensure that our ethical standards, i. e. compliance with laws and regulations, integrity, fairness, honesty and respect for others, are applied consistently across the Group.
International Power will continue to take its Values, its Ethics Charter and the Anti-Bribery Policy Statement as cornerstones for its activities.
The Group will also continue to give generously to appropriate charities and will continue to strive to enhance the communities in which it operates by being a responsible employer, supporting the local economy, being a responsible neighbour, and supporting local services and community initiatives.
79 80 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Governance We are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
One of the most important aspects of ensuring that these standards are met is the composition and operating effectiveness of the Board.
