30 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew sustainability review At the heart of everything we do We are dedicated to providing a Across the world we have achieved a sustainable business fulfilling our number of accreditations in this area commitments to our shareholders, our including Investors in People, ISO 14001, customers, our employees and our OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and PAS 99. communities to ensure we help deliver a Interserve is a member of the better future.
Our Head of Sustainability FTSE4Good and Kempen Social is Tim Haywood, the Group Finance Responsibility indices.
He leads the Sustainability How we vIew sustAInABIlIty Board, which is embedding these principles throughout the business.
Sustainability is essential to the way we do business.
We understand the The Sustainability Board, aided by fundamental interdependence of the tIm HAywood the wider body of experts within social, economic and environmental GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR, Interserve and supplemented by aspects of sustainability and that the way external consultancy, has embarked HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY we behave will ensure we have a positive on an extensive programme to assess impact in each of these areas.
the effectiveness of our sustainability processes and to determine how far social sustainability concepts extend into all Our approach to social responsibility our day-to-day working.
This programme provides opportunities for our employees, recognises that while successful focuses on their wellbeing and reflects leadership is important, the responsibility our involvement in the economies, for delivering a sustainable business is markets and communities in which we shared with all our employees, our supply operate.
We are playing a crucial role in chain and our clients.
delivering social sustainability, economic Our sustainability policy includes the regeneration and transformation by following commitments: undertaking our work responsibly and by This section provides a summary engaging in matters of local, national and to continue to operate safely and global interest.
of our approach to sustainability responsibly and seek to continuously and of our performance in improve these standards of operations: employee engagement 2011.
A more detailed account, to develop a sustainable range We believe in involving our people in including further information on of building and support services, matters affecting them as employees, our sustainability performance, is underpinned by a sustainable business: and keep them informed of all relevant published in our 2011 Sustainability factors concerning the Groups to strive to improve our business Report, available via our website at performance, strategy, financial status, performance, contributing to economic, www.
charitable activities and other issues.
We social and environmental development: achieve this through formal and informal to help our customers create more briefings, through our Group magazines value in their business: and through our intranet.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly to provide our people with every on a wide range of matters affecting their opportunity to contribute to developing current and future interests.
their talents: and Since 2007 we have conducted a to act as responsible members of our biennial, Group-wide survey to help communities, by generating economic us understand how our employees growth and supporting social, experience working in Interserve and educational and cultural advancement.
what improvements we may be able to make at a local or central level.
oveRview buSineSS Review goveRnAnce finAnciAl STATemenTS Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew 31 economic environmental Our Sustainability Report contains examples of our innovative work in this Economic success is an integral part In addition to the moral obligation to area, including our new Leicester office, of sustainable development, enabling safeguard the environment, there are the first certified Passivhaus, carbonthe sharing of wealth to the benefit of clear business advantages in taking neutral office in the UK.
We have also society as a whole.
We are aware of our a lead on environmental issues.
It started work on the two schools in Leeds responsibilities in the locations where means we are better placed to help our which will also be Passivhaus.
we work and are passionate about the customers comply with legislation and creation of sustainable employment and prepare for a changing climate, and In 2011 we once again participated in the training opportunities for local people.
especially it enables us to reduce our Carbon Disclosure Project and we are customers costs and their impact on the currently working to achieve CEMARS In November we introduced a environment.
From cutting down waste accreditation for our carbon emissions revolutionary new design for schools and water usage to better use of raw reporting.
which greatly reduced building costs and materials and fewer emissions, we keep time.
The PodSolve design is being used our environmental impact, and those of for Leeds East Academy and will benefit our clients, to a minimum.
students through an improved and flexible learning environment, while cutting both costs and length of time for construction by 25 per cent.
employee enGAGement: tHe BIG pIcture in order for our large and diverse workforce to feel a part of our vision, to focus on our goals and endorse our values, we have developed a major employee communications initiative called The big Picture.
it has been designed, with the input of our senior managers, to educate and inspire our people and forms part of our induction process.
32 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew our performAnce Health and safety Measure 2011 target 2011 outcome 3 2012 target 3 Zero fatal injuries to 0 0 0 At the beginning of 2010 we reassessed employees, contractors or which measures would best help us members of the public manage the way we work in order to make continual improvements in our Halve our all-labour AIR by 341 310 3 282 health and safety performance.
As a 2020 from a 2010 result we adjusted some of our KPIs to base 377 increase the focus on proactivity and on Maintain a fatal and major 70 85 70 enhancing behavioural change.
injury incidence rate below The health and safety data in the adjacent 70 table and chart cover Interserve and its Executive Board members 12 each total: 93 3 12 each subsidiaries as well as a joint-venture to carry out an average Average: operation, KMI, of which Interserve of 12 site safety visits per 13.3 owns just over 30 per cent.
The accident annum incidence rate AIR is the number of RIDDOR-reportable injuries per 3 All employees with high 90% 92% 90% 100,000 workforce.
occupational risk to their health to be engaged with With our formal safety management the health surveillance systems well established it is clear that programme further improvements in performance will predominantly come though behavioural All site managers and 90% 87% 90% change programmes and changing supervisors to receive attitudes towards safety.
This has been appropriate health and developed into our Aim to be Accidentsafety training Free campaign with each operating All employees to work 95% 98% 3 95% division delivering programmes of activity within safety management most relevant to their operations.
systems registered to OHSAS 18001 All-lABour AccIdent IncIdence rAte Target 494 444 429 Target 386 Target 373 377 344 Target 341 Target 310 310 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 oveRview buSineSS Review goveRnAnce finAnciAl STATemenTS Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew 33 employee development Beyond our chosen charity we involve We collect data in our wholly-controlled, 1 ourselves in numerous local charities UK operations.
This is based around our Over the course of the year our people in the UK and internationally, both as a fixed office locations and the activities we engaged in more than 9,800 days-worth of business and through the hard work of support from them and includes office training, in addition to external courses and many individuals who take up causes locations associated with contracts where self-directed learning.
We employed 78 that are close to them personally or to our we hold lease agreements and pay utility apprentices, had 298 people undertaking clients.
We gave a corporate donation bills.
It also includes the fuel we purchase part-time or distance learning and 1,370 of 10,000 to Great Ormond Street for use in vehicles to deliver our contracts.
Hospitals Raising the Roof campaign Since the year end one of our apprentices, We believe that the increase in the as well as 25,000 to the Safer London Tibby Choda, was named Young figure for waste produced was due to Foundation the Metropolitan Polices Carpenter of the Year 2012 in the BBCs improvements in our capturing data charity supporting community-led Young Talent of the Year competition.
rather than to an actual increase in waste crime prevention reduction projects, itself.
It is also worth noting that we have The success of individuals committed to and several smaller donations to other increased the amount of recycling, so their personal training and development charities brought the corporate total to the waste potentially going to landfill is recognised through the Interserve 77,412 for the year.
The environmental impact 1 We have included the energy used on construction sites Chief Executive presented 45 people which we purchase directly and will have to account for from across the Group and around the We use a variety of indicators relevant under the carbon reduction commitment.
We do not include: world with awards in September at a to each of our operating companies to fuel used by contractors to deliver their packages of work on construction contracts: ceremony in front of the entire Groups monitor environmental performance, but emissions from our associated companies overseas over senior management.
the following core impacts are identified which we do not exert direct financial control: or for the Group as a whole: charitable giving the local environmental impact of our Equipment Services international locations, as they are predominantly small Greenhouse gas emissions from our We believe in contributing to the welllocations and we do not routinely collect data there.
use of energy, including electricity, gas, being of the communities in which we fuel in vehicles, transport and travel work.
For some years we have had a programme which operates at different Use of resources including water and levels: at Group level we select a charity timber every two years and make an annual Generation and disposal of waste donation: we encourage business units to run charitable events, either for the Group charity or for another cause that proGress AGAInst envIronmentAl tArGets uK operAtIons is important to the area or the people Measure 2011 target 2011 outcome 3 2012 target involved: and we offer support for employees to undertake sponsored 3 Reduce carbon emissions 3.38 3.33 3.25 activities.
from energy used at tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m UK Interserve fixed site In early 2012 we set up the Interserve locations tonnes CO e Employee Foundation.
The aim of the 2 per million UK revenue Foundation is to improve the quality of life by 2.5% per annum for people in the communities where we live and work, using the skills, capabilities, Reduce carbon emissions 13.68 12.77 3 12.45 resources and enthusiasm of Interserve from fuel used in UK fleet tonnes m tonnes m tonnes m employees.
Ambassadors from all our and cars tonnes CO e per 2 business units and locations will promote million UK revenue by the aims of the Foundation and help get 2.5% per annum employees involved in local projects.
3 3 3 Reduce water 22.99 m m 23.17 m m 22.71 m m The Foundation was launched with an consumption at UK ambitious project to construct a learning 3 fixed site locations m centre in Chennai, India.
water used per million UK revenue by 2% per Our chosen charity for 2010 and 2011 annum was Help for Heroes, a charity founded in 2007 to provide direct, practical support Reduce waste generated 32.79 kg 41.86 kg 41.02 kg to those wounded in UK military service.
at UK fixed site locations employee employee employee As a result of the fund-raising events kg of waste generated and individual sponsored activities, per UK employee by over 49,000 was raised in 2011 to 2% per annum complement the Company donation of 25,000, making a total of nearly 160,000 over the two years.
We have extended our support for a further year.
34 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew our contributions to the social, economic and environmental wellbeing of the communities in which we operate are regularly recognised through a variety of awards.
recoGnItIon In 2011 our awards included: social economic Thames water Excellence in global water Awards lAbc South west building Health and Safety award: Riverside Distinction for Technical excellence awards Best project team Achievement and finalist as the Educational Development: Torquay Best Desalination Plant of the Community College considerate contractors Year : Thames Gateway water scheme Gold Award and HR Technology impact Awards treatment works runner-up as Most Considerate Most Innovative Use of HR Site : Wisbech Flood Defence South west forum for the built Technology: Constructions HR project environment Drake awards Department and the Department for Building of the Year: High View Sustainable Business considerate contractors primary school scheme Bronze Award: Ripon employee benefits Awards flood alleviation scheme building better Healthcare Most Effective Travel Strategy for awards Best Mental Health Business and Perk Car Drivers: Premises and facilities Design: Prospect Place, Birch Hill Constructions HR Department and management Pfm awards Hospital the Department for Sustainable Partners in Skills Development: Business partnership with Asset Skills and South west water Pure Service RICS in developing employee award: Hayle project team, for institute of civil engineers east career pathways excellence in customer service midlands merit awards Best Large Project: Stoke Bardolph RoSPA awards: edinburgh Architectural anaerobic digestion plant Association Regeneration 2 Presidents Awards 10 to 14 and Conservation award: Adam civil engineering contractors consecutive Gold Awards Ferguson building at Edinburgh Association North-East University 11 Gold Medals 5 to 9 consecutive Project of the Year: Morpeth Flood Gold Awards Alleviation Scheme Emergency local Authority building control works 13 Gold Awards lAbc cYmRu building excellence awards Best education investors awards 2 Silver Awards Healthcare Project: Adult Mental Local Education Partnership of Healthcare Unit at the Wrexham the Year: Sandwell Futures Maelor Hospital oveRview buSineSS Review goveRnAnce finAnciAl STATemenTS Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew sustAInABIlIty revIew 35 environmental environment Agency SHE Yorkshire Post Environment Exemplar award: Shaldon and Award: Fishlake Habitat Creation Ringmore Tidal Defence Scheme project H o awards 2011 middle east Health Service Journal 2 and north Africa water industry efficiency Awards Energy Water Efficiency Leader award: Efficiency award: UCLH Carbon Gulf Contracting our Qatar Reduction and Innovation Group associate company building better Healthcare Abercrombie Awards awards Best Use of Efficiency Best Sustainable Development: Savings: lighting scheme at the High View primary school Christie Hospitals new Oak Road Patient Treatment Centre green Apple environmental Awards: Winner, Built Environment category: Malvern Community Hospital Gold Award Education : Dartington primary school Gold Award Biodiversity : Fishlake Habitat Creation project Ripon flood alleviation scheme
