Sustainability and CSR Report Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer Contents By focusing on quality in everything we do, we help our clients 30 Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer to meet end users expectations across increasingly diverse quality, health, environmental, safety and social accountability 31 Our business aspects in virtually any market around the world.
In fact the work that we do for our clients has a major positive impact on the 32 Intertek people planet, people and business that far outweighs our own use 34 Our environment of resources.
35 Our communities As a world leader in sustainability services, Intertek is committed to operating in a socially responsible manner and believes it is essential that our own standards are as high as those we provide to our customers.
During 2011 we reviewed our approach to sustainability and corporate social responsibility to ensure that we focus on the environmental and social challenges which matter most to our key stakeholders.
We implemented a common framework which enables us to record and monitor our performance in areas such as health and safety, energy consumption and emissions more effectively and consistently throughout the Intertek Group.
This report describes some of the work we are doing for our clients and the performance of our own operations in these areas during the year.
Through the integrity and dedicated work of our 30,000 people around the world, Intertek ensures the quality and safety of the goods and services we all use providing us with a better quality of life today and a more socially responsible and environmentally friendly world tomorrow.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer providing a better quality of life today and a more socially responsible and environmentally friendly world tomorrow.
com Sustainability and CSR Report Our business Intertek has introduced many training programmes to elevate In a world that is becoming increasingly complex, Intertek is and reinforce product safety in the consumer goods industry.
well placed to help our clients adapt to the changes in global In 2011, Intertek Consumer Goods was certified as the first trade patterns.
Our customers are constantly innovating in their training provider for international personnel and training industries, from creating safer and more environmentally friendly certification body RABQSA Incs new Safe Design Professional products, to groundbreaking technological advancements.
Saf-D-Pro certifies qualified As the environment in which they operate evolves, we help individuals in the discipline of design appraisal of consumer our clients to adapt their strategies, business models and supply products based upon state-of-the-art design hazard analysis chains to meet the challenges of increased diversity of consumer and risk assessment techniques and practices.
Intertek is changing with them, Through our network of global safety experts, Intertek also as we continue to execute our customer-focused Intertek as conducts safety awareness seminars for those working in the One strategy.
chemical manufacturing industry, such as pharmaceutical, Consumers, governments and communities alike are rightly specialty chemicals, and agrochemicals.
Our experts analyse concerned with how services and the manufacturing, use a wide range of chemical processes and have recognised and disposal of products impact the lives of workers, their expertise in characterising fire and explosion properties of communities and the environment.
They expect goods to not powders and dusts.
only meet quality and safety requirements, but to be sourced We are supporting the move to hybrid domestic and commercial and manufactured using sustainable practices.
As a result, transportation through the testing of batteries and charging non-compliance within supply chains represents a huge systems for electric vehicles.
Furthermore, in 2011 we contributed reputational risk and concern for brand integrity.
As retailers to the first ever commercial flight using sustainable jet bio fuel.
and brands work to demonstrate good corporate governance As well as testing and certifying the fuel, Intertek provided across their supply chains, their suppliers are concurrently being consultancy services on the testing and certification process asked to continuously showcase their capabilities, capacity and to customers in the aviation industry.
In the Food and Agri sector, Intertek is an internationally Interteks Industry Community Programmes offer a full range recognised certification body for food safety programmes, of services for companies and facilities seeking to improve including Global Food Safety Initiative GFSI endorsed schemes, compliance in accordance with widely accepted industry such as the Food Safety System Certification FS22000, British standards and best practices.
These standards have been Retail Consortium Food Standard BRC, International Food extensively researched and developed in collaboration with Standard IFS, and Safe Quality Food SQF.
the worlds largest consumer brands and retailers.
Our services With the global population estimated to reach nine billion by include Supplier Identity & Profile iSupplier Intelligence, Social 2050, the world will need to produce more safe, nutritious and Compliance Workplace Conditions Assessment, Environmental affordable food which can be supplied and distributed to meet Sustainability Think Green Initiative, Quality Assurance the needs of consumers in different economic, social and cultural Supplier Qualification Program, Security Compliance Global contexts, while maintaining the ecosystem on which food Security Verification, Fabric Quality Mill Qualification Program production depends.
Our comprehensive evaluations of food and a range of other environmental impact assessment solutions production, quality management systems, testing programs, covering products, packaging and supply chains.
For example, factory environment, product and process controls, positions we undertook a life cycle analysis of carrier bags for one of the us to certify the entire supply chain.
worlds largest retailers, resulting in a shift in policy to offering bags with a higher recyclable content.
"In 2011 we extended our Food and Agri testing capabilities by In 2011, Intertek hosted the 10th annual Ethical Sourcing Forum BDRVJSJOH 'PPE ""OBMZUJDBMBCPSBUPSJFT B MFBEJOH DIFNJDBM BOE in North America."
The forum brings together manufacturers NJDSPCJPMPHJDBM GPPE UFTUJOH MBCPSBUPSZ JO UIF 6, BOEBCT and retailers to explore how they can work together to achieve Testing S. A. based in Santiago, Chile, which provides a wide measurable ethical sourcing and sustainable business practices range of chemical and microbiology services for the fishing that are currently transforming global supply chains.
We are industry and the large supermarket chains.
We also opened our also establishing fair trade relations in Brazilian cotton exporters second food testing lab in Turkey which has been authorised by supply chains through providing guidance on compliance to the Turkish Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Breeding to operate local labour legislation.
as an official control laboratory and as a private laboratory for imported exported food and feed control services in Turkey.
In 2011, Intertek acquired Recherche, Developpement & Intertek is playing a key role in helping the Global Alliance for Consulting Bruxelles SA RDC.
Based in Belgium and France, Improved Nutrition GAIN with their Premix Facility programme.
RDC helps companies to improve their product packaging, As GAINs primary certification agent, Intertek tests and certifies organisation and the overall environmental impact of their supply the premix, which is a commercially prepared blend of essential chain.
Services include lifecycle analysis, carbon foot printing, micronutrients used in food fortification.
More than 100 million eco-labelling, greenhouse gas analysis and energy auditing, people in developing countries are benefiting from improved as well as a unique software tool to enable clients to calculate nutrition as a result.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 31 Sustainability and CSR Report Stewardship and Governance Intertek people Interteks strategic direction and performance is overseen Intertek is a diverse company of more than 30,000 employees, by the Board see pages 36 and 37.
With a mix of Executive operating in over 100 countries.
It is this diversity in all we do and and Non-Executive directors on the Board, Intertek has a wide embrace as a company our industries, services, geographies, range of experience and skills, bringing independent judgement people and cultures that ensures our status as an economically to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and sustainable business.
The Board has overall responsibility for The Group is supportive of all the communities in which we the establishment and oversight of Interteks risk management are active and is committed to giving local, talented people framework, details of which can be found on pages 43 to 44. the opportunity of employment and further development.
Interteks global operations are managed by the Groups It is Interteks policy that everyone should have an equal executive management team the Intertek Operations opportunity for employment, fair pay and career advancement Committee, as shown on pages 12 and 13, which includes on the basis of ability, necessary qualifications and the Divisional Executive Vice Presidents EVPs.
Part of Interteks global strategy is to align our organisation Intertek has framework policies in place which cover all issues of with the many industries in which our customers trade, so that fair recruitment, performance management, remuneration and we can provide them with the support and expertise specific training and development.
These policies enable respect and fair to their needs.
We do this from five global divisions operating treatment of employees across the Group, while still giving local across more than 100 countries: Commodities, Industry & managers the authority and flexibility to adopt what is right for Assurance, Consumer Goods, Commercial & Electrical and their local area.
Interteks EVPs also have formal We provide continuous learning opportunities and training for responsibility for regional business development.
personal growth so that we remain up to date and highly expert Each of our major operating countries has a Country Manager, in the services we deliver for our customers.
Our management who is responsible for the cross-divisional development of development initiatives focus on leadership workshops to Interteks overall operations and business in that country, develop our existing teams as well as identify and grow talent including local sustainability actions.
t The American Society for Quality ASQ created its first Governance structure TPDJBM SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ BXBSE 5IF 4QFODFS VUDIFOT S 4PDJBM Responsibility Medal, in honour of Interteks former Senior Vice Intertek Group plc Board President for Risk Assessment and Management.
In receiving the Award, Spencer Hutchens said: I am proud and humbled to have this medal named in my honour.
My hopes are that the development of this medal will provide continued inspiration for individuals and organisations to build their work Intertek on values of social responsibility principles Ive supported Operations Committee: 9 throughout my life and career at Intertek.
Sadly, ten months later, Spencer Hutchens passed away, but his legacy continues.
Senior Leadership Group: 300 t In December 2011, Intertek Consumer Goods North America President, Gene Rider was awarded the prestigious Chairmans Commendation Circle Award by the U. S. Consumer Product Safety Commission.
The Award recognises people and groups who have contributed in an important way to the benefit of consumers by directly and significantly reducing deaths, preventing injuries, and improving consumer product safety.
Intertek: 30,000 people O PG OUFSUFL T 4FOJPSFBEFSTIJQ XFSF NBMF BOE GFNBMF compared with 83% and 17% respectively in 2010.
com Sustainability and CSR Report Although we operate across many different industries, one Professional conduct of our key values is to act as one united company through Our integrity is at the heart of our business.
One of Interteks promoting a co-operative working culture under our Intertek primary business objectives is to ensure compliance with local, as One programme.
By working together and integrating national and international laws and the accuracy and validity of our knowledge and resources across our business lines, we reports and certificates that it provides to customers.
All Intertek are able to provide a complete package of services seamlessly employees receive training on the Intertek Compliance Code to our customers under a single brand ethos of Valued as part of their induction.
Compliance training is available on Quality.
our Group intranet in multiple languages.
The objective of this code is to demonstrate how we approach compliance within our organisation to assure ethical behaviour and the integrity Male : Female 18,000 of our services.
We also have a summary Code of Ethics, Ratio by regions 16,000 which employees are asked to sign as part of their terms 14,000 of employment with the Company, confirming acceptance of 12,000 the high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
10,000 8,000 The Code of Ethics is supported by regular in-service training, 6,000 advice on ethical issues and an internally publicised telephone 4,000 hotline, allowing protected reporting of concerns regarding Female 2,000 non-compliance.
Intertek has a strict policy of Zero Tolerance Male Americas Asia EMEA 0 regarding breaches of compliance policy.
At 31 December 2011 we employed 31,712 people, an increase of 17% over During 2011 we received 24 reports of non-compliance which the prior year.
The largest contributor to this growth in headcount over the past proved to be substantiated claims requiring remedial action.
12 months was our acquisition of Moody International, which increased our We continue to monitor these figures each year.
Our Audit and headcount by approximately 2,500.
Risk Committee regularly reviews the outcomes from hotlines Total workforce and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
36% Compliance hotline incidents 2011 Number of incidents Number of incidents Number of substantiated reported further investigated incidents 118 118 24 Health & Safety Intertek considers the health, safety and welfare of its employees, 64% clients and third parties connected with its business to be of Female paramount importance.
We aim to provide a safe working Male environment and ensure that our employees have the information and resources to perform their duties safely.
We are Interteks gender diversity is reflective of the general industries and qualification committed to maintaining high standards and complying with profiles of employment in our operating countries and business lines.
relevant local legislation and guidelines in any area in which we Headcount Revenue Revenue and operate.
We continually seek to minimise risk to our employees, headcount 35,000 2,000 2000.0 clients and others who may be affected by our operations and 1,800 1777.
30,000 our procedures are regularly monitored by our compliance team 1,600 777778 1555.5 to ensure that they are being properly applied in practice.
25,000 1,400 1333.3 1,200 20,000 1111.1 We are very saddened to report however that during 2011 three 1,000 888.88 15,000 employee fatalities occurred: two whilst travelling to work and 800 666.66 600 one during business travel.
While these incidents were not 10,000 444.44 400 directly attributable to our operations we are taking steps to 5,000 Headcount 222.22 200 increase our safety awareness programmes for employees when Revenue m 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 00.0 travelling to their workplace.
'SPN BOVBSZ PVS FBMUI 4BGFUZ SFQPSUJOH XJMM BMTP JODMVEF The increase in total number of Intertek employees over the last five years.
accidents requiring medical treatment and injuries resulting in lost working time.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 33 Sustainability and CSR Report The health and safety of our people and activities is the Using 2011 as our base year, we will continue to monitor and responsibility of line management and employees themselves.
record our emissions and energy consumption levels in our All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated subsequent external reporting.
Country Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports In order to reduce our travel emissions, we have continued where UISPVHI UP UIF SFTQFDUJWF $PVOUSZJOF.
BOBHFNFOU BOE possible, to minimise business mileage by increasing the use of Intertek Group.
video and web technology for meetings.
We are committed to the continuous review and improvement of In our Automotive Research business, we use regenerative our health and safety performance and our aim is to achieve zero engine dynamometers when testing our clients engines.
Through these test programmes we offset our consumption Our environment by producing enough electricity to power 750 homes.
Moreover, We believe that, through the services we provide for our clients, the emissions work we perform for major engine manufacturers the positive influences that we have on the world are far greater means that the next generation truck engines will produce than any negative effect from our operations.
However, we 90% less particulate emissions than engines currently in use continually work to reduce energy consumption and other on public highways.
effects that our operations may have on the environment.
For Environmental initiatives continue throughout Intertek offices to example, we have introduced electronic payslips for employees reduce energy consumption, which include minimising electricity and e-certificates for many of our customers, both to improve usage by switching off lights and other electrical appliances when operations and reduce our consumption of resources.
Our businesses continue with their efforts to reduce Our corporate Environmental Policy is implemented at a national paper usage and recycle all waste materials where possible.
level by Country Managers in compliance with local regulations In 2011 Interteks Exploration & Production Services businesses and guidelines.
The policy serves to ensure that employees at all relocated to a new state-of-the-art green building in the levels in the organisation are aware of the environmental impact Aberdeen Innovation Park in Bridge of Don, Scotland, where of their activities.
It also outlines our objectives as a company to heating and hot water is provided from a biomass boiler minimise any adverse environmental influences.
Interteks Centre of Excellence will support For 2011 we have calculated our carbon emissions and energy the energy sector, including renewable energy initiatives and consumption levels for the 20 largest Intertek countries by will provide local employment to engineers, chemists and headcount, which together represent approximately 80% technical experts.
All Intertek employees are made aware of our environmental Electricity and gas consumption levels throughout the year green initiatives and guidelines, as well as their responsibilities were measured in order to monitor our energy consumption.
towards the environment as an employee for Intertek.
Electricity consumption was reported to be 174,200 MWh Environment related activities are continuously increasing, 6.85 MWh per employee and gas consumption was reported with our employees actively participating, alongside their to be 47,051 MWh 1.85 MWh per employee.
communities, in causes to help the environment.
For example, in Mumbai, India, a team of Intertek volunteers spent their leisure The levels of greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the time planting tree saplings in their local community to counter guidelines of the GHG protocol.
The calculated emissions include: deforestation from building development.
On Chinas Arbor Day t Scope 1 emissions Direct emissions which are a result of in March, Intertek adopted 25 trees for a tree planting event at our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our Baiyun Shan Park in Ghangzhou, which saw the participation business operations that occur at sources owned or controlled of over 70 employees, and in October more than 60 Intertek by Intertek: employees took part in an organised clean up of Rose Coast t Scope 2 emissions Indirect emissions which are a result of Beach in Shenzhen.
our testing and inspection services for clients as well as our business operations that occur at sources not owned or controlled by Intertek.
CO emissions for top 20 Intertek countries by headcount 2 Emission tonnes CO e 2011 2 Scope 1 9,399 Scope 2 108,169 Total 117,568 Per employee 4.62 CO e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent 2 34 | www.
com Sustainability and CSR Report Our communities As an organisation, Intertek also helps the communities in which While the very nature of the work that Intertek people do every we operate.
day helps to minimise the health, social and environmental t Following the devastating earthquake in Eastern Turkey impact of thousands of products and processes around the in October 2011, Intertek in Istanbul sent much needed world, many also give their personal time and energy to clothing to people in the affected areas and Intertek voluntary programmes in their local communities.
employees also contributed by personally donating articles Our employees cultural values and relationships within the of clothing and blankets.
communities in which they live and work is important to t In China, Intertek donated over 1,000 dictionaries and them, as well as to our business and our clients.
At Intertek stationery to children in Guangdong.
Our employees travelled we encourage our employees involvement in charitable and GPS TJY IPVST UP SFBDI UIF TDIPPMT JO UIFJBOOBO NPVOUBJO BSFB community activities.
Volunteering not only helps them develop t In Thailand, with the agreement of our customers, we new skills and experiences but strengthens their relationships organise the charitable distribution of rice samples that with colleagues through the teamwork involved.
are no longer required following quality testing, so nothing goes to waste.
These are just some of the good causes our people took part t In 2011, Intertek in Australia, supported Bicycles for in during 2011: Humanity, to help establish a Bicycle Empowerment Centre t OUFSUFL FNQMPZFFT JO $PSUMBOE FX :PSL 64 UPPL QBSU JO in a village near Walvis Bay, Namibia.
projects for Habitat for Humanity, a charity which strives to t O UIF 6, XF IBWF FTUBCMJTIFE B DPNNVOJUZ USBJOJOH energise neighbourhoods and communities by repairing and scheme to help local graduates understand the role of an building environmentally green homes for those in need.
approvals engineer, not just in Intertek but also in the global t O UIF 6, TUBGG GSPN OUFSUFL UPPL QBSU JO B GVOESBJTJOH FWFOU marketplace.
The programme covers all areas within the for WaterAid, an international non-governmental organisation Commercial & Electrical industry, including hazardous that aims to transform lives by improving access to safe water, locations testing, life safety, fire and security systems hygiene and sanitation in the worlds poorest communities.
Graduates are continually assessed t In celebration of Singapores 46th year of independence, and provided with professional support throughout Intertek employees paid tribute to the elderly who have the programme.
contributed selflessly to the early years of building their nation.
Four care homes for the elderly were asked for a wish list of items needed by their residents.
In just 10 days, over 900 different items of daily necessities were collected from 500 Intertek employees.
t In India, Intertek employees celebrated Diwali Festival of Interteks Sustainability and CSR report was developed according to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines, which provide a recommendedJHIUT XJUI DIJMESFO BU UIF OTUJUVUJPO GPS UIF #MJOE JO %FIMJ framework and indicators for reporting.
A table outlining the GRI standard giving sweets to the children and providing 200 blankets and disclosures is provided at the end of this document.
All data used for performance sheets for the Institution.
indicators is representative of the Group, unless stated otherwise.
