Corporate Social Responsibility Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social responsibility.
We believe that by acting as a responsible global citizen, we will not only help minimise business risk but also enhanceour reputation as a business partner.
CO2 emissions tonnes within our The Invensys Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct, supporting policies manufacturing locations andcompliance training and associated training are the core The Invensys Code of Conduct both elements in the latest iteration of the describes and represents our commitment Compliance Programme.
During the year, 2008 82,332 to responsible business and is the we released further training on specific 2009 71,512 foundation of our broader Compliance areas of compliance, targeted to relevant 2010 64,587 Programme.
Under the terms of the Code audiences, and also offered refresher of Conduct, our employees undertake to courses in our Learning Management 2011 66,003 work with integrity as representatives of System training in critical areas of the Invensys and in accordance with both local Codeof Conduct, such as Anti-Bribery law and our own standards of ethical andCompetition Law.
behaviour: where the Code of Conduct is 2% more exacting than local laws or standards, Our sustainability strategy CO2 emissions within our the Code of Conduct must be followed.
Sustainability is intrinsic to our operations manufacturing locations increased and value propositions: it is important to The Board is given regular updates by 2%: this compares with a our customers, communities, employees oncompliance issues by the Group revenue increase of 9% at CER and shareholders.
We have continued to General Counsel and Company Secretary.
implement our strategy of embedding The Chief Executive and Group Human sustainability into our operations.
We Resources Director receive regular havemade progress in reducing our briefings from the Group General Counsel environmental footprint, minimising and Company Secretary where any wasteand increasing efficiency even concerns can be raised.
Legal and ethical asourbusiness has grown over the compliance is recognised as apriority lastyear.
We updated our supplier forInvensys.
assessment procedures, and As stated in last years Annual Report and communicated our expectations of Accounts, the Code of Conduct is available suppliers to conduct business in an on the Invensys website and can be read by ethicaland responsible manner.
any customer, shareholder or member of In the UK, Invensys was again listed on the public.
This year Invensys has adopted theFTSE4Good Index Series, which lists a Supplier Code of Conduct based on our companies that meet recognised standards Code of Conduct and is having suppliers of corporate responsibility.
For the second agree to the same or have in place a similar consecutive year, Invensys was listed on Code of Conduct of their own as a theDow Jones Sustainability Indexes condition for doing business with us.
DJSI in recognition of our economic, The Code of Conduct is supported by environmental and social performance.
periodic training for all employees and the Invensys renewed its participation in Board.
All new employees must complete theUnited Nations Global Compact Code of Conduct training within the first UNGC and we again reported our month of employment.
As part of our effort greenhouse emissions on the Carbon to promote the Code of Conduct and our Disclosure Project CDP.
More detail Helpline, Invensys has produced a range canbe found in our Sustainability Report, ofsupporting materials including Helpline which will be available on our website.
posters, abridged versions of the Code of Conduct and other presentation materials which are displayed at Invensys facilities and are available on the Invensys intranet.
| 28 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Environmental KPIs Year ended 31 March Unit 2011 2010 % change Energy use 1 manufacturing MWh 162,426 152,135 7 2 non-manufacturing MWh 43,658 48,741 10 CO2 emissions 1 manufacturing tonnes 66,003 64,587 2 2 non-manufacturing tonnes 21,569 24,658 13 global fleet tonnes 12,502 12,835 3 business airline travel tonnes 24,530 21,310 15 1 Water consumed cubic metres 366,602 390,372 6 1, 3 Waste generated non-hazardous tonnes 5,594 5,705 2 1, 3 Waste generated hazardous tonnes 521 603 14 1 Based on 41 sites in 2010 and 39 sites in 2011.
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website.
All data independently verified by Sage Environmental, L. P. Management responsibility, commitment Environmental performance Health and safety in the workplace and continuous improvement are the keys For the past year, we set a 3% absolute Health and safety are intrinsic to our to the success of the Invensys long-term reduction target for the environmental KPIs operations and our value proposition.
The Invensys Environmental, at our manufacturing locations: energy use, Weare pleased to report continued Health, Safety & Sustainability EHS&S CO2emissions, water use, non-hazardous improvements in our health and safety management system consists of defined waste and hazardous waste.
Energy use performance, as reflected in decreased goals and objectives, programmes, and CO2 emissions within our injury illness incident frequency rates.
standards and assessments as well as manufacturing locations increased by From April 2010 to the end of March 2011, management support and involvement.
7%and 2% respectively, as a result of our Total Recordable Case Incident Rate Itisdesigned to be consistent with increased production levels across all TRCIR fell 14% from 0.21 to 0.18 and our 1 internationally recognised management divisions.
However, these KPIs increased at Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR systems standards and is intended to a rate lower than the rate of overall revenue fell 25% from 0.08 to 0.06.
This continues a define and establish expectations, growth.
Water consumption decreased five-year trend in which our TRCIR has fallen andprovide a common base for by6%, non-hazardous waste generation 76% and our LWCIR has fallen 86%.
We implementation and planning at all of decreased by 2%, and hazardous waste continue to look for ways to improve our ourglobal locations and operations.
The generation decreased by 14% due to safety performance and record.
system enables the Group to anticipate successful efficiency projects and the andrespond to constantly changing rationalisation of facilities.
For the current 1.0 regulations and risks.
Each manager is year, we have set a 2% absolute reduction responsible for ensuring that these target for each of the KPIs.
0.8 standards are being met or exceeded The Board continues to be briefed on within his or her area of responsibility.
Group environmental performance and 0.6 Additionally, we continue to encourage receives monthly reports on any violations oursite and regional operations to seek or environmental releases.
In the past year, external management system certification.
there were no environmental releases.
0.4 Presently, six of our operations are During inspections by government ISO14001 certified.
officials, we received two environmental- 0.2 orcompliance-related violations in the Americas.
One issue required the posting of efficiency results near large gas-fired 0.0 boilers and was corrected immediately.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The other issue required the installation of Total Recordable Lost Workday 1 Case Incident Rate Case Incident Rate noise abatement measures and corrective actions are in progress.
In both cases, no 1 The injury illness frequency rate that results in lost time fines or further notices have been received.
in the workplace per 100employees per annum.
Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 29 Index rate Corporate Social Responsibility continued Energy consumption MWh within Our Safety and Sustainability Awareness Invensys Values and leadership our manufacturing locations Metric SSAM is the model we use to drive competencies and measure several leading activities at We continue to embed the Invensys Values 2008 198,982 anoperational level.
The SSAM, which is of: Innovation, Agility, Integrity, Courage measured and reported monthly, includes and Meritocracy into our organisation.
2009 175,353 on-time closure of corrective actions, Alignment with the Values is considered 2010 152,135 nearmisses, completion of safety training, integral to the performance of our safety tours inspections and environmental employees, and the Values are built into 2011 162,426 KPI improvements.
This past year, the our performance management processes.
SSAMwas expanded to include a measure The key messages of the Invensys brand of the implementation of new EHS&S and its values have been clarified and management system standards across made relevant to current and potential 7% thebusiness and operations.
Invensys employees through an employer Energy consumption within our branding initiative.
This is intended to Our Chief Executive reviews the health manufacturing locations increased create an I want to work here culture, and andsafety performance data, including by 7%: this compares with a retain and attract confident, competent anymajor incidents, on a monthly basis revenue increase of 9% at CER and ambitious people to Invensys who are andpresents it to the Board.
In addition, drawn to a high-performance work culture.
site leaders and management teams Total Recordable Case Incident revieweach recordable incident to fully We have also launched a new set of Rate understand the root causes of accidents Invensys competencies following andensure adequate corrective actions extensiveexternal benchmarking and 2008 0.56 areimplemented.
We are pleased to internal research drawing on inputs from reportthat there were no major incidents over 200 of our own high-performing 2009 0.31 orwork-related fatalities during the year.
These new competencies are 2010 0.21 During inspections by government officials, designed to guide behaviours at every 2011 0.18 we received two safetyor compliancelevel of the organisation.
related citations at locations inthe Americas.
Our location in Marion, USreceived a Diversity in the workforce citation from the US Occupational Safety As a global company with employees -14% and Health Administration OSHA and a across the world, Invensys seeks to recruit fineof US$4,175concerning a lack of stop the best individual for every position Our Total Recordable Case controls guarding on a piece of equipment.
regardless of gender, ethnic or national Incident Rate TRCIR fell by 14%: The other issue was related to fire-fighting origin, religion, sexual orientation or any this continues a five-year trend in systems and procedures at a location in personal characteristic not relevant to their which our TRCIR has fallen 76% Brazil.
In both cases, corrective actions were work.
Invensys fosters an inclusive culture instituted and no further notices or fines where anyone with the skills and abilities to have been issued.
We are continuing our perform is treated fairly.
We embrace the compliance and assurance efforts across the diversity of our employees, and the greater organisation and look forward to reporting effectiveness a diverse workforce allows on improved progress in this area nextyear.
We continue to respect and support the principles of the Community and charitable investment European Convention on Human Rights We continue to encourage our divisions and the UNGC by ensuring we comply and employees to engage with good withthe labour laws of the countries in causes to build relationships in the which we operate and by creating an community and enhance workplace inclusive and respectful culture for our moraleand cohesiveness.
The Group seeks to provide a variety of programmes such as ensure that fair consideration is given matching gifts, sponsorship of activities toapplications for employment received and paid volunteer time to allow our from people with disabilities and we employees to participate actively in offercontinued employment, training community events.
andadvancement where possible to employees who are or become temporarilyor permanently disabled.
| 30 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review Dialogue with employee Aligning individuals with the Group Employee engagement representatives and employees tosafeguard our future We conducted an Invensys-wide Employee The Invensys European Employees During the year we used our goal Engagement Survey in November 2010 Forum IEEF promotes dialogue between deployment and performance which achieved a response rate of 83%, elected employee representatives and management tools and processes to upfrom 78% in 2008, and pleasingly high senior management.
The annual meeting helpour employees to understand the compared to other similar surveys.
The between IEEF representatives and organisational goals and objectives of results enable us to track improvements seniormanagement has been running Invensys and align them with their own.
from prior years and to compare with for12years.
Line managers are required to hold annual external norms.
We are pleased to see our performance reviews with all employees employee engagement levels compare Members of the leadership team who report to them, where they can discuss positively with our global external communicate regularly with employees their performance, set personal objectives benchmarks.
Our business and functional through global activities and local for the coming year and create personal teams are now implementing action plans communications networks, including development plans.
Approximately created in response to survey feedback.
site-level briefings, smaller, face-to-face 11,000employees are participating in meetings and employee newsletters.
We continue to strive to make Invensys ouronline performance management aplace where high-performing people Invensys has established the use processes with goals for 2011 12 on our choose to be, where they can enhance ofblogging and is exploring social integrated system.
Other employees, theirlives and careers and are motivated networking technologies to facilitate suchas those in manufacturing, are toperform at their best.
fastand open communication between participatinginlocal performance employees and to realise the performance management processes.
advantages of sharing knowledge and bestpractices across our divisions.
Investing for the future with training Our Learning and Development Centre Developing talent ofExpertise CoE has become wellWe continue to focus on growing internal established and, utilising seven languages, capability and enabling internal career has this year delivered over 55,000 hours moves through our Organisational ofonline training across 4,000 learning Capability Review OCR process.
Whilst nearly 300 leaders have process takes place across Invensys, and participated in advanced management and over the past year at a corporate level, has leadership training, the CoE has focussed led to the creation of robust succession increasingly on core Invensys capabilities plans for over 60 leadership roles.
OCR has with the launch of anew project also enabled the identification of nearly 40 management curriculum containing over High Potential and High Professionals 60 learning programmes and with over inour leadership population and over 80 400participants to date.
The development considered to be Rising Talent across the of success profiles for engineers and sales Group.
Each of these employees has an professionals has enabled us to assess the individual development plan and is actively competence anddevelopment needs of supported to achieve their potential.
