Sustainability This section provides a brief summary of our approach employees to assist during and after a natural to sustainability.
Further details can be found elsewhere disaster integrity in this report, in our sustainability report and on our Nearly 22,000 career path profiles have been created website at amec.
by employees wanting to progress their careers Our aim is to create a successful, sustainable company within AMEC people for the long-term.
To achieve this, we need to balance We continued to support SOS Children as our global economic, social and environmental issues in our strategic charity, by employee fundraising and decision-making processes, ensuring sustainable matched funding programmes and activities working is integrated into the very core of our business.
integrity In 2011 we revised our sustainability strategy to Revised and rolled out new Business Code of strengthen the visible linkage with the core business Conduct.
This includes human rights clauses, strategy from our values to Vision 2015 and beyond.
responding to our UN Global Compact commitments We are now using three interwoven elements - living integrity our values, excellent project delivery and sustainable Rolled out global environmental standards growth to support the delivery of our vision.
See consistent minimum standards covering 14 topics, diagram opposite.
across all AMEC operations environment.
Living our values Excellent project delivery We believe that AMECs vision and strategy for growth Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing cannot be achieved without a solid foundation AMECs on our customers and how we deliver to them safely values.
Our values are integral to how we do business and sustainably in line with our values.
and how we deliver projects successfully for our customers.
They create the cultural context in which Our customers face increasing legislative and other we work, and form the foundation to our sustainability pressures to operate in a sustainable way and we at strategy in four key areas: AMEC are in an ideal place to support them, working with our partners and supply chain.
People They are looking for sustainability solutions: Safety sustainability consulting services such as greenhouse Environment gas management: sustainable engineering projects Integrity.
such as wind farms or biodiesel facilities: and applied Policies, processes and standards are in place globally sustainability, incorporating key aspects of so we can manage these areas consistently wherever sustainability into a project as a value-added service.
In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and tools, along with AMECs technical Highlights include: and scientific expertise, to ensure excellent customer Over 230 safety tours were undertaken by members delivery.
of our leadership team, putting safety leadership into action and driving engagement on safety safety Highlights include: Consistent project management systems and We achieved our best ever score within the Carbon processes are enabling our minerals & metals Disclosure Project environment groups in Canada, South Africa and the Philippines Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate TRCFR was to work as one team, delivering the ArcelorMittal at our lowest ever recorded level in 2011 safety Nimba Western Range iron ore project and utilising our global expertise, knowledge and resource Record numbers of graduates, trainees and interns consistent delivery were hired - 471 during 2011 people Publication of the Supply Chain Code of Business Became a member of a new Disaster Recovery Conduct is ensuring our suppliers are aware and Partnership, designed to mobilise qualified agree to work in line with our values and 24 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials expectations in areas such as health, safety and Carbon associated with our office utilities was down environment, ethics and human rights aligned 16 per cent from 2010 levels giving a saving of some supply chain 1 million on our energy costs.
We were selected to design and deliver a Marine In our reporting on sustainability we focus on those Well Containment System to ensure a rapid areas which are most important for us, to our response if a subsea well is damaged, minimising stakeholders, and those which are critical for AMECs environmental impact by capturing, storing and long-term success.
We set targets for, and check on offloading hydrocarbons in a safety manner the progress of, over 40 sustainability indicators, some environment and safety in design of which are incorporated into this report.
The 2011 Annual Sustainability Performance report is on our We were commissioned to create a system website and provides full details.
Ecospacial Information Database that will improve the speed in which scientifically defensible For 2012, our priorities include: environmental and ecological data for offshore Communication of the revised sustainability strategy waters is available innovation.
ensuring our employees understand their part in the delivery of the strategy and our vision Sustainable growth This third element of our sustainability strategy - Further improve engagement with our employees sustainable growth - provides the linkage from living utilising the feedback from our 2011 employee our values and excellent project delivery to our Vision survey 2015 business strategy and delivery of the company Continue carbon reduction improvements in order vision, and beyond.
For further details on how we are to meet our first milestone in 2013.
Key areas for implementing our Vision 2015 see page 18.
2012 are the implementation of new carbon Highlights include: software which will improve transparency at local Undertook first stakeholder panel to review the and employee level, implementation of power effectiveness of AMECs external reporting on management software which will reduce our power sustainability, and the updated sustainability strategy usage from IT devices and the implementation of awareness campaigns focusing on the carbon and Sustainability event held in London for an audience costs associated with travel of analysts and investors.
It focused on sustainability and business strategy, people and safety.
The Further develop and market AMECs sustainability material and a webcast recording can be found services, focusing on clean energy solutions and on our website adapting to climate change.
Included in Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the eighth year in succession, continuing as industry Beyond 2015 leader within our sector Creating stakeholder value through: Sustainable - The right customers growth Ensuring satisfied customers through: - The right portfolio of sectors and services - Consistent delivery - The right geographical spread - Safety and environment in design - The right people Excellent - Aligned supply chain project - Innovative solutions delivery Our foundation: - People Living our - Safety values - Environment - Integrity AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 25
