38 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Corporate social responsibility The Board of ITE believes that corporate and social responsibility is an important part of the Groups culture Overview The Company actively supports its employees Employees The Board of ITE believes that corporate and in their support of local community projects.
Employees are selected and promoted on social responsibility is an important part of Charitable donations across the group totalled the basis of merit and ability, regardless of the Groups culture and that the adoption of over 32,000 2010: 35,000. age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation good practice will have a positive impact on or disability.
The Group has a policy of profits and increase the long-term value for In Moscow, ITEs subsidiary contributed funding encouraging employees, especially those from shareholders.
Due consideration is given to to the continuing restoration of St Nicolas the locations in emerging markets, to move risks arising from social, environmental and Cathedral in central Moscow.
In Kazakhstan around the offices of the Group, thus providing ethical issues as part of an ongoing risk the Group contributed funding to various local development opportunities for all staff.
charities that support a number of good causes addition, employees are assisted in their career including educational scholarships.
development through an annual appraisal Social interaction In St Petersburg the local office supports scheme and sponsored training is provided The Board of the Company is aware of both a number of initiatives involving childrens where there is a benefit to both the individual the benefits to its business of engaging with its charities.
During 2011 this has included and the Company.
All staff are eligible to receive various constituencies in a socially-responsible providing direct financial funding as well as share options or awards under the Employees manner and the risks of failing to do so.
As an providing volunteers to assist on specific Performance Share Plan as the Board feels that operator of  businesses projects and workshops.
it is important for them to take an active part in in emerging markets, the Company ensures that the success of the Company and to share in the it is culturally sensitive in its dealings with the The Group is looking to increase further long-term value they help to create.
The Board local community and that its employment and the number of its offices which take part in recognises the need to provide a safe working development policies are non-discriminatory charitable activities.
environment for employees and exhibitors and encourage the employment of local and visitors at the Groups events.
Each office nationals at all levels in the Company.
is responsible for ensuring that their business operates in compliance with Group policies and the relevant local health and safety legislation.
During the year, all employees in the London office have had a refresher Health and Safety training session.
Staff from all regions with lead responsibility for the operation of the Groups exhibitions on-site also attended an updated training course.
Ethics Integrity is core to the Groups values which it actively promotes in its dealings with employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers and with the authorities of the countries in which it operates, and recognises that reputation is a valuable and fragile asset gained over a substantial period.
The leadership position of the Groups exhibitions and the longterm growth of its core shows is a testament to International childrens day at orphanage #12 in Children from orphanage #40 in St Petersburg the success of its practices.
St Petersburg Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 39 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group promotes high ethical standards in The London and Huddersfield offices continued The Group has installed video-conferencing carrying out its business activities and has clear to engage the services of Carbon Smart.
During facilities at its London, Huddersfield, guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, 2011, Carbon Smart re-assessed these offices Moscow, St Petersburg, Kiev, Istanbul, corruption, fraud and the use of inside Carbon Footprint.
Their carbon footprint was Almaty and Hamburg offices to reduce staff information.
All ITE staff are required to comply found to have been significantly reduced to 312 travel requirements.
with the laws and regulations of the country in tonnes CO e 2010: 427 tonnes which equated Computers and IT equipment are recycled 2 which they operate.
to 2.3 tonnes of CO e per employee per year where possible and redundant equipment 2 2010: 3.3 tonnes.
This compares favourably is either sold to staff or given to charitable The Group is a member of UFI the Worldwide to the average UK employee 4 tonnes of CO e organisations.
2 Exhibition Organisers Association and emissions per year, however, it is recognised The Group has been reducing its printed through this, the attendance figures at our that improvements can be made.
The London materials over the last few years, with a key exhibitions are audited by independent and Huddersfield offices have set themselves greater reliance on electronic media for its services.
This helps to provide assurance to our a target to reduce their carbon footprint by a marketing materials.
However, catalogues exhibitors and visitors as to the standard of our further 5% over the next twelve months.
and delegate packs are still printed and the exhibitions.
Group is implementing a set of operating As a result of the improvements made during standards to be followed by suppliers aimed The Group aims to provide high quality of 2011, the UK operation of the Group has been at controlling paper sourcing and use of service at all its events in all locations.
The awarded the Carbon Smart Silver Award, materials.
Group operates to a strict minimum quality level following the award of the Blue Award in 2010.
The Group encourages staff to use public to ensure events are provided to exhibitors and transport through offering season ticket visitors at international standards, irrespective loans for London staff.
The Group is taking advantage of recent e-communications legislation for The Group ensures that all advertising and communicating with shareholders and so public communications avoid untruths or will be able to reduce the volume of printed overstatements.
materials produced with the publication of our Annual Report and Interim Statement.
ITE builds a relationship with suppliers based on mutual trust and undertakes to pay suppliers The Groups activities in staging exhibitions and on time and in accordance with agreed terms conferences do impact on the environment.
All information regarding the By identifying environmental improvements, The environment is impacted through the relationship between the Group and a supplier we expect to see increased efficiencies and utilisation of natural resources for assembling must remain confidential.
with that reduced costs and the management exhibition stands, and travel to both exhibitions of environmental issues is part of our and conferences for exhibitors, delegates and Environment business strategy to create long-term value for ITE staff.
Presently, practice in controlling waste As a media services company, the Group shareholders.
The Group already undertakes at different exhibition centres varies widely acknowledges that its business has an impact a number of initiatives aimed at reducing its through the different regions in which the on the environment, albeit relatively minor, carbon footprint: Group operates.
The Group follows current best and ITE recognises the importance of following The Group encourages the recycling of practice in each of its markets by observing good environmental practice.
The Company is waste paper and other office waste and industry and country legislation.
aware that this is an area of increasing concern plans to increase the recycling rates and to employees, shareholders and customers materials recycled throughout the Group.
The Company does not manufacture or The Group continues to expand on the paid sell any tangible products and has identified for waste recycling initiative by introducing the principal areas of environmental impact as more waste recycling facilities to allow energy use, waste recycling, paper and printing recycling of a wider range of materials.
