Business review Corporate responsibility review An award-winning year for Corporate Responsibility at Sainsburys Anna Ford Chair of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2010 11 Corporate Gold Class and Sector leader Responsibility Committee FTSE4Good Index 2011 As chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility I report to the Board twice a year on our plans and the Index Platinum status progress made on each of our values.
Sainsburys approach to Corporate Responsibility is not just an add-on: these values are an integral part of our daily actions and are at the heart of our policy and decision-making.
Here Gold accreditation from Investors in People we highlight some of the challenges and opportunities presented by sustainability, alongside key achievements which have been recognised by awards.
We were proud to be awarded Sector leadership and Gold Class in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, as well as awards for our Community Retailer of the Year and Seafood approach to supporting farmers and high animal welfare Retailer of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards standards, from Radio 4 Food and Farming, Compassion in World Farming and the RSPCA, to name but a few.
With an average of 21 million customer transactions each week, as well as around 150,000 colleagues and more than 2,000 suppliers, Sainsburys has a real impact on the Best Volume Supermarket and Good economy, environment and society.
Our values underpin Chicken Award at the Compassion in our goal to provide healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food at World Farming Awards fair prices.
They are at the heart of our business: they determine our priorities and ensure we conduct ourselves in an ethical and sustainable manner.
As a leading food retailer we focus on being Best for food and health which is why we are committed to Sourcing with integrity.
Retailer of the Year at the Farm Business Award As we source from all over the world to sell in the UK we aim to always show Respect for our environment and Best Retail Initiative at BBC Radio 4 play an active role in Making a positive difference to our Food & Farming Awards community.
All this is possible through the commitment of our colleagues, so that Sainsburys is A great place to work.
We raised a record breaking sum of 11.4 million for Most Progress in Animal Welfare at the Comic Relief during this economically challenging year RSPCA Good Business Awards and I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to all of our colleagues and those customers that contributed so willingly to such a great cause.
Green Retailer of the Year at Drinks Business Green Awards 2011 Anna Ford Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Corporate Responsibility Governance The Materiality Process The importance we attach to our values is reflected in our When we set our goals and priorities, we are guided corporate responsibility governance structure, where by a materiality process which enables us to focus members of our Operating Board are responsible for each our attention on those areas of greatest impact and of our five values and sit on our Corporate Responsibility importance.
We chart all related sustainability issues Steering Group.
To complete the governance process, our against the level of potential concern and how much plc Board oversees Corporate Responsibility through its the issue could affect our business.
We are then able to own committee.
make a direct link between the sustainability challenges we face and our commercial strategy.
Examples of the most significant issues are clear nutrition labelling, supporting suppliers and farmers, and ensuring we have a diverse workforce.
J Sainsbury plc Board High David Tyler, CR committee Chairman Established January 2007 Meets twice annually Anna Ford, Chair Non-Executive Director CR steering group Low Potential Business Impact High Established 2001, Meets quarterly We map a wide range of issues to the level of stakeholder Justin King, Chair Chief Executive concern and potential to impact our business.
The outputs of this process have been used to inform our CR strategy, set new commitments and select the topics covered in Best for food Health and health this report.
steering Helen Buck, group Convenience Director Customers and many other interested parties trust Sainsburys to act responsibly on their behalf.
They also look to us to take the lead in encouraging people to shop Sourcing with integrity Brand with the environment and ethics in mind.
Throughout the Mike Coupe, governance challenging economic environment, customers have told Group Commercial steering group us that ethical and environmental issues remain important Director to them.
Therefore, while customers have demanded better value from their purchases, this has not been at Respect for our the expense of the environment or society.
Sainsburys Climate environment change publishes an extensive Corporate Responsibility report Neil Sachdev, steering that covers our five values in more detail and this is Property Director group available at www.
We have reported on Corporate Responsibility in some form since 1996, Making a positive when we were the first UK food retailer to publish an difference to our Environment Report.
Community community steering Roger Burnley, group Retail and Logistics Director Best for food and health Strategy A great place to work Our goal is to offer our customers great quality food at fair A great Gwyn Burr, prices and, as a leading food retailer, we aim to be Best for place to work Customer Service & food and health.
Our approach is to help and inspire steering Colleague Director customers to eat a healthy, balanced diet by promoting group healthy eating and active lifestyles.
In addition to making healthy, high-quality and tasty food easily available in our stores, we ensure that we have clear and straightforward labelling to help people make more informed choices.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 15 Stakeholder Concern Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Challenges and opportunities Challenges and opportunities We respond rapidly to changing customer needs.
For While we are a UK retailer of food, we source products example, after heavily promoting the benefits of a from across the world.
In the longer term, the impact of healthier diet, we saw an increase in demand for healthy population growth and land use pressures could lead to products and responded by introducing 20 new and increases in costs.
By working with our suppliers on improved lines to our Be Good to Yourself range.
We also initiatives such as our development groups, we are saw an increase in demand for products designed for working together to meet these challenges, and becoming customers with allergies and intolerances.
Rather than more efficient in managing social, ethical and lose customers who are not able to buy our own-brand environmental issues.
products due to these allergies, we reformulated much of our range and provided detailed relevant information on The development groups are an entirely new way of our website.
We have also increased our Freefrom range, working with our suppliers in our main agricultural supply which now accounts for 22.7 per cent of the allergy and chains.
We share best practice across a supply group, intolerance market.
providing training on new farming techniques as well as introducing technology where it is helpful and appropriate.
In March 2011 the Coalition Government launched its Public Since 2006 we have invested over 30 million in Health Responsibility Deal involving the Department of developing these relationships, initially with our dairy Health, industry and the third sector.
We were pleased to development group and more recently broadening out to have been part of the discussions about the Responsibility cover the main agricultural supply chains.
We currently Deal from the outset and to have signed up to pledges that have over 2,000 farmers and growers participating in our build on the work we have done over a number of years, development groups.
This approach will ensure that the for example to make food products healthier and to majority of our own label products come from supply address irresponsible alcohol consumption.
chains that are dedicated to us, and are environmentally sustainable, ethical and fit for the future.
We encourage our customers to make informed choices about the alcohol they purchase by printing the units of Achievements and performance alcohol per glass or bottle on all our own-brand beers, wines 12.2 per cent of our own-brand products are from and spirits.
We are aware of the reputational and financial certified sustainable sources, such as Marine risks associated with the irresponsible sale of alcohol Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, RSPCA Freedom Foods, and as a responsible retailer take every effort not to sell Forest Stewardship Council, Soil Association, equivalent alcohol to those under 18.
We adopt a Think-25 policy in to over 1 billion in sales in 2010 11. all our stores, meaning if the customer looks under 25, Over 280 million of our sales in 2010 11 were from we ask for proof of age.
We are also an active supporter Fairtrade products alone, making us the worlds largest of Drinkaware, a charity that increases awareness of Fairtrade retailer by value.
Despite the challenging the results of alcohol abuse and helps individuals make economic climate our customers interest in Fairtrade informed choices about their drinking.
New product has continued, with sales increasing by 19 per cent from development of lower alcohol wine has increased choice the previous year.
Respect for our environment Achievements and performance 1.8 per cent of our own-brand products are from healthy Strategy ranges.
We manage our environmental impact through our climate change strategy.
This divides the business into three Over 5,000 of our own-brand products are labelled with elements: our operations, our products and our customers.
front of pack Multi Traffic Light labelling.
We aim to reduce our environmental impact by introducing programmes of co-ordinated activity across the business Sourcing with integrity between now and 2020, with the aim of becoming the UKs Strategy greenest grocer.
Sourcing with integrity is central to our ability to provide great products at fair prices.
In practice this means Challenges and opportunities working with our suppliers to build sustainable supply Climate change represents a significant challenge both for chains, taking into consideration their economic, our business and the worlds population.
We take a longenvironmental and social impacts.
We aim to bring value term view of our environmental impact and intend to to the communities we source our products from, as well reduce our direct environmental footprint, as well as as promoting high standards of animal welfare and manage the environmental impact of our supply chain.
Our strategy is to be a world leader the UK we anticipate the increase in direct costs associated in selling food using certified sustainable sources.
with environmental regulation will rise over the coming years, and is already impacting the business through, for example, changes to the Carbon Reduction Commitment.
It is important that we continue to work closely with our suppliers to minimise their impact on the environment and manage the challenges presented by climate change, such as water scarcity and land use.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Over the last two years we have opened 14 per cent more A great place to work supermarket sales space with no net increase in carbon Strategy intensity, meaning that while our business grows, our Being A great place to work is rooted in Sainsburys environmental footprint does not.
By working in this way heritage and values.
It also plays a crucial role in achieving we enhance our environmental credentials as well as our business goals.
We rely on our colleagues to provide reducing our operating costs over time.
great service to our customers every single day.
Achievements and performance We champion equality, diversity, inclusion and flexible Through our supermarket energy reset programme we working options for our colleagues.
We aim to recruit and saved 5.7 million.
retain the best people, from backgrounds that reflect the We have reduced our own-label packaging by 8,000 communities we serve.
We believe we should encourage tonnes over the last year.
every colleague, no matter where they work or what role they perform, to develop their skills and make the best Making a positive difference to our community use of them.
Strategy Challenges and opportunities Our stores are at the very heart of the communities In an industry that traditionally has a high labour turnover, they serve, and our successful planning applications and faces competition for talent from competitors, it demonstrate how we will provide local employment and is vital that Sainsburys provides A great place to work, enhance a local community by taking an active role in to ensure we are able to attract and retain the best community life.
Our Local Charity Partnership initiative colleagues.
Turnover of employees, and absenteeism, ensures our stores support the charities most relevant add significant costs to our business, and managing to the communities we serve.
Our aim is to be the food these challenges requires investment in training and retailer of choice for local communities, by standing out as development.
We are already seeing a reduction in turnover, being more than a store.
Our commitment as the first ever which is down by 11 per cent over the past four years.
Paralympic Games only sponsor complements our aim to promote a healthier lifestyle across all ages and abilities.
From our research it is clear that colleagues who are more engaged are more productive, so it is essential we use all Challenges and opportunities of our communication channels to ensure this.
In addition, The challenging economic climate of recent years has we believe satisfied colleagues will recommend us to their had a significant impact on the communities in which we neighbours, and enhance our reputation in the community.
This, combined with the way in which the retail We are investing in training that will increase the skills of sector competes for customers weekly shop, means that our colleagues.
This not only helps us run our business we need to use all store benefits to ensure we are the better, but has been shown to make a huge difference to retailer of choice when new planning applications are job satisfaction and employee retention.
Our Company values play a key role in the planning process and can be the difference in winning A healthy workplace is always a more productive one and or losing an application.
that is why safety is a key part of all our training and management systems.
Over 86 per cent of our colleagues Through new store openings and extensions we create new believe that safety is taken seriously at Sainsburys this is jobs and opportunities.
We look to recruit from the local a one per cent year-on-year improvement, building on an community and, in many cases, provide employment for already strongly positive base.
people who traditionally find it hard to get work, such as the long-term unemployed or people with disabilities.
Achievements and performance Through our support of Comic Relief and our Active Kids 88 per cent average colleague engagement score.
programme, we regularly see an increase in sales as well Talkback, our colleague engagement survey, provides a as improving levels of colleague involvement.
regular check of how our colleagues are feeling.
There is a clear correlation between high engagement scores and Achievements and performance high productivity, therefore at a high average score of Over 6,000 new jobs created over the last financial year.
88 per cent we know our colleagues are very engaged 22.9 million raised by colleagues, customers and with the business.
suppliers through donations and charitable activity.
We were the first retailer to be awarded gold accreditation from Investors in People for our commitment to improving our business by investing in our colleagues.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 17
