The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure its business Corporate and is carried out in a way that ensures high standards of environmental and human behaviour.
With the help and co-operation of all employees, the Group Social Responsibility endeavours to comply with all relevant laws in order to meet that duty and responsibility wherever it operates.
The major contributions of the Group in this respect are detailed below.
RETAIL BUSINESSES Employment The Group is a large equal opportunities employer and a large training organisation, with the Groups retail businesses providing direct employment and career development to thousands of people, primarily across the UK, Republic of Ireland and France.
The Group employs large numbers of school leavers and university graduates and participates regularly in work experience schemes with schools and colleges across both countries.
Training The Group recognises that training for all levels of staff is vital to performance and it also provides a mechanism for increasing morale and improving staff retention.
This ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
Retail staff at all levels in the Groups core UK and Republic of Ireland retail fascias are encouraged to seek development and progression ultimately up to management level, with training provided by the Groups long established and substantial training function.
Training is given in four main areas: No.
of courses in Length of people on a year course each course New management induction 19 1 week 18 Training academy for new managers 3 12 weeks 20 Junior management development 70 1 day 10 Management and leadership workshops 15 1 day 8 Chausport operate their own training programme.
However, the managers and assistant managers of the JD stores in France have their own bespoke training programme organised by the UK training function which is designed to ensure they operate their stores to standards consistent with JD in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to promoting policies which are designed to ensure that employees and those who seek to work for the Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital status, sexual orientation, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment by people who are disabled, to continue whenever possible the development of staff who become disabled and to provide equal opportunities for the career development of disabled employees.
It is also Group policy to provide opportunities for the large number of people seeking flexible or part time hours.
Communication The number and geographic dispersion of the Groups operating locations make it difficult, but essential, to communicate effectively with employees.
Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved through the management in the regional and area operational structures.
In addition, formal communications informing all employees of the financial performance of the Group are issued on a regular basis by the Groups Human Resources Department in the form of Team Briefs.
31 Stuart Fielden of Wigan Warriors Rugby League Club and England, wearing Kooga EVX shoulder pad 32 The Group is committed to using and subsequently reporting on appropriate Health and Safety KPIs with regards to energy usage.
Accordingly, the Group can report the following in respect of locations in the UK and Republic of Ireland that We are committed to ensuring a safe environment for all of our employees and have been present for the full year for both years.
As this is a like for like customers and actively encourage a positive health and safety culture comparison, the 2010 data has been updated to reflect store openings and throughout the organisation.
The Group recognises its responsibility for health disposals in the current year: and safety and there is accountability from the Group Board and throughout the various management levels within the business.
% Our health and safety team have developed a comprehensive induction and 2011 2010 Change training programme which is regarded as an essential part of our commitment to health and safety.
Targeted safety awareness campaigns are run regularly Energy Usage Electricity MWh 46,242 47,555 -3% throughout the year and a monthly newsletter ensures that the safety message Energy Usage Natural Gas MWh 4,208 4,453 -6% is communicated effectively throughout the Group.
Total Energy Use MWh 50,450 52,008 -3% Our Health and Safety Committee meets regularly each year allowing Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO 25,631 26,383 -3% every employee the opportunity to raise any safety concerns through their 2 nominated representative.
The Group has pledged to reduce its combined energy usage from these To ensure that stores are designed and built with safety in mind, our health levels by 3% year on year on a like for like basis until the end of the scheme.
This target and the associated operating standards that drive this target apply and safety team has input into all our new and refitted stores from the initial design through to opening.
We conduct our own audit programme to ensure to all the Groups businesses.
the highest safety standards during the construction phase of all our shop-fit projects.
The Group has again invested heavily in the period to 29 January 2011 in replacing inefficient air conditioning systems.
A further 26 stores now have We set targets to enable us to measure our performance.
During the current systems with market leading technologies which consume less energy whilst providing an appropriate temperature for staff and visitors.
This replacement year we have seen positive improvements in the completion of internal health and safety inspections and risk assessments, as a result of countrywide programme is ongoing and it is anticipated that a similar number of works will be carried out in the period to 28 January 2012.
Following the successful trial presentations to the retail team, to increase awareness of our responsibilities.
of lower watt bulbs in stores, the Group has now adopted these bulbs across all retail businesses reducing the electricity required for lighting by over 50%.
Our health and safety team regularly review the management processes we have in place, with the aim of maintaining our high standards, whilst adapting The Group is committed to investing in the necessary resources to help to business and legislative changes.
achieve its targets on reducing carbon emissions, with the following works planned for the year to 28 January 2012: Environment Expanding the CMP to widen the awareness campaign, through better The Group recognises the importance of protecting our environment for training, improved communication and reporting future generations and is committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for the environmental impact of its operations particularly with Continuing the air conditioning replacement programme regards to: Increasing analysis and reporting of data provided by smart meters Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials Expanding the use of building management systems in store to allow remote Minimising waste by recycling wherever possible monitoring and control Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice The Group is also aware of the need to purchase energy competitively from renewable sources wherever possible.
As a result, the Group has continued Energy with the Airtricity electricity supply contract in Northern Ireland and Republic It is the Groups aim to give customers an enjoyable retail experience with goods of Ireland, who source 100% of their electricity from renewable sources.
presented in an environment that is both well lit and has a pleasant ambient The Company has also agreed a contract with British Gas in the UK except temperature.
However, the Group accepts that all the businesses within it must Northern Ireland to supply electricity from Good Quality Combined Heat be responsible in their energy usage and associated carbon emissions.
This means the UK and Republic of Ireland businesses now get over 70% of all their electricity from sustainable sources.
To that end, the Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme CMP which aims to: Ensure there is an accurate baseline for consumption by working with electricity suppliers to ensure that bills reflect actual usage Improve understanding of the drivers and timing of usage by investment in smart electricity meters.
This has been achieved in approximately 350 of the Groups stores.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage data is already received, this means that in excess of 93% of the UK and Republic of Ireland electricity consumption is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
In addition to accurate billing for these stores, analysis of the data has also shown that usage in non-trading periods is higher than would be expected.
The usage in these periods is being reduced through additional training and investment in small scale building management systems where appropriate Enhance staff awareness through training at store level, thereby ensuring that retail staff understand that they have a key role in the CMP Pursue a multi-disciplined approach to the CMP to ensure all business activities are aware of their impact on energy consumption Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme CRC, the Groups submission to the Environment Agency will be aggregated with that of Pentland Group Plc who are the Groups ultimate holding company see note 36.
The Group is therefore working with Pentland Group Plc on ensuring an efficient and effective transfer into the new emissions trading scheme which was introduced in April 2010, as part of the CRC.
From an internal Group perspective, however, the Group Finance Director will carry the responsibility for the entry and subsequent reporting on targets in the first phase of the CRC, to 2013.
33 Ribbon maxi dress, exclusive to Bank, Religion tee and Selected denim short, also available at Bank 34 Environment continued ALL BUSINESSES Recycling Ethical Sourcing Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging constituent is taken back to the Groups distribution centres.
The cardboard is then baled and passed to The Group seeks to provide its customers with high quality and value recycling businesses for reprocessing.
During the year, the Group increased its merchandise from suppliers who can demonstrate compliance with recycling of cardboard to 423.3 tonnes 2010: 245.5 tonnes.
internationally accepted core labour and ethical standards throughout their supply chain.
The Group is expanding its use of recycling opportunities wherever possible by introducing a Dry Mixed Recycling DMR scheme to divert waste from landfill.
These standards are based upon the provisions of the Ethical Trading Initiative Recycling remains split into four main elements: ETI Base Code and specifically cover areas such as wages, working hours, health and safety and the right to freedom of association.
The DMR scheme allows us to increase the recycling of cardboard, paper, plastics and metal containers The Group requires all of its suppliers, both existing and new, to formally commit to implementing the provisions of the ETI Base Code throughout their Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection by a recycling business supply chains.
Prior to any orders being placed, all new suppliers are required This business provides a Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment which to complete the Groups risk assessment form to indicate their degree of states that the shredded paper, which was collected in the year, was the compliance to the ETI Base Code.
All existing suppliers are also required to equivalent of 1,211 trees 2010: 1,540 trees with the reduction reflecting the conduct this assessment on an annual basis.
These forms are reviewed by the fact that some paper which was previously disposed of as confidential waste Groups Buying team members and Pentland Groups Corporate and Social to ensure it was recycled is now disposed of via the new DMR process Responsibility Manager and any areas of concern with regard to potential non-compliance are investigated when visiting the factories concerned.
Wood and metal waste is separated at our main distribution centres to further reduce our waste to landfill liabilities Due to the diverse nature and scope of the supply chain, it is not always possible to visit all of the factories directly.
Where instances of non-compliance Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are collected and recycled for are identified from the risk assessment forms and the supplier cannot charity by Environmental Business Products Limited be visited, they are required to confirm what corrective actions are being undertaken to resolve the issue.
These actions will be verified directly by the Plastic bags Groups Buying team members and Pentland Groups Corporate and Social Approximately 40% of the bags issued by the Group are high quality drawstring Responsibility Manager as soon as practically possible on a future visit.
duffle bags, which are generally reused by customers many times.
However, the Group is aware of the environmental impact of plastic bags and has sought All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with the Groups to minimise any impact through the following measures: Conditions of Supply which includes a specific policy on Employment Standards for Suppliers.
The bags are made from 33% recycled material The bags contain an oxo-biodegradable additive, which means that they Community Engagement degrade totally over a relatively short life span The Group seeks to be involved in the community where it can make an In addition, the Group uses paper-based bags rather than plastic bags in its appropriate contribution from its resources and skills base.
Examples of stores in the Republic of Ireland.
this include: JD Sports Fashion Plc sponsorship of the City of Salford 10k run which took place in September 2010 Donations to The Geoff Thomas Foundation which works closely with Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research on raising funds to speed up the delivery of effective new treatments to patients with blood cancer Donations to The Marina Dalglish Appeal to improve cancer treatment facilities in Liverpool Donations to Boot out Breast Cancer which raises funds to provide equipment for as many breast cancer units in the North West as possible Donations to Cancer Research UK Donations to The Elizabeth Hardie Ferguson Charitable Trust Fund which was founded by Sir Alex Ferguson and is dedicated to the memory of his mother.
The Trust acts as a fund raising body and distributes all proceeds to deserving causes within the United Kingdom Sponsorship and donation of kit to local junior sports clubs and schools Policy on Acquired Businesses The Group has acquired a number of retail and distribution businesses in recent years, and acknowledges that the high standards which the core retail businesses have historically operated to, need to be replicated in the wider global Group.
After making an acquisition, staff from the core retail businesses, with the relevant knowledge and experience, work with the management teams at these acquired businesses.
The initial focus is to help the local management analyse their position against these standards with action plans developed as necessary.
Standards of the existing Group companies, along with any future acquisitions, will continue to be monitored, with action taken to maintain Group standards as required.
