CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Company aims to be an important part of the local The Company has also been recognised as an Age communities in which it trades, managing its Positive employer, by the Department for Work and responsibilities from both corporate and social Pensions.
It has also been recognised by the Corporate perspectives.
The Companys corporate social responsibility Research Foundation, in association with The Guardian plan identifies four areas: people: responsible retailing: newspaper, as one of Britains Top Employers, for eight community and charity: the environment.
The Company regularly benchmarks its remuneration People packages.
In addition to competitive pay rates, the Company has created a bonus scheme for all employees.
The Company aims to be a highly regarded employer, In this connection, the Company awarded bonuses and through its investment in training and development, shares SIPs for employees of 22.6 million in the year, an policies on equality, a competitive remuneration package increase of 0.5% 2010: 22.5 million.
Of the payments, and the encouragement of employees to participate 98% were made to employees below board level, with actively in business strategy.
approximately 87% of payments made to employees working in our pubs.
In addition to this, all employees are The Company created over 2,800 new jobs in 2010 11 able to join the Company health plan and pension plan, and is working with government agencies to offer jobs to as well as obtain tax-efficient childcare vouchers.
We placed 121 candidates into permanent employment, helping to save substantial amounts in benefits.
Responsible retailing In relation to training, the Company held over 1,000 Responsible drinks retailing separate training courses in 2010 11, attended by over The Company supports practices which promote sensible 11,000 delegates, and promoted over 2,200 staff to drinking and has established a code of conduct for shift leader or management positions.
responsible retailing, outlining its approach in this area.
In addition, the professional diploma in leisure retail We also seek to develop partnerships with local management, run in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan authorities and the police.
All pubs are requested to University, is offered to all pub managers and area become a member of the local pubwatch a scheme to managers.
We believe this diploma to have been the first promote a safe and responsible drinking environment.
in-house programme in the licensed trade which allows In a number of locations, a Company pub manager chairs employees to gain a professional qualification while the scheme and, where there is no pubwatch, we try to working.
The programme was extended to include a work with the local police and council to establish one.
degree top-up, also in conjunction with the university.
A Company representative sits on the National Pubwatch committee and the business financially supports the The quality and volume of the Companys training courses Drinkaware Trust and the British Institute of Innkeeping.
help to create motivation and to provide employees with the necessary skills to carry out their jobs to a consistently The Company was the inaugural winner of the high standard.
All employees are now able to participate Responsible Drinks Retailing Award, jointly sponsored by in e-learning, through a dedicated employee Web site.
the Home Office and Morning Advertiser.
In 2009, the Company won the award for the second time.
The Company has increased the range of nationally recognised qualifications available to employees.
As well We encourage our pubs to enter the Best Bar None as the apprenticeship programme, employees can also schemes run by local authorities and the police, to gain access to three new qualifications: a level 2 NVQ encourage good behaviour in town centres, promoting diploma in beverage services, a level 2 NVQ diploma in a safe and secure environment.
kitchen services and a level 2 apprenticeship in customer service, developed specifically for 16- to 17-year-olds.
Food information and quality The Company aims to improve the quality of its food The Company is committed to equal opportunities and offering continually and to provide customers with the the elimination of discrimination, harassment and required information about our product range, to allow victimisation of employees.
Of our workforce, 51% is them to make informed decisions about their food female and 49% male.
This includes nutritional information for all dishes, via our Web site and a printed leaflet, available in pubs.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 45 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Company endeavours to ensure strict specifications for the Scores on the Doors system which awards for all of its products, so that high standards of quality between zero and five stars a local authority scheme to are met.
For example, the sausages which the Company measure good practice in these areas.
sources from the Welsh Sausage Company contain only British pork, with no artificial colours or flavours: the We have signed a Primary Authority Partnership under Company uses only dolphin-friendly tuna: the haddock, the Local Business Regulation Office scheme for Health & cod and salmon in our dishes are sourced from Safety, Food Safety and Trading Standards, with Reading recognised, sustainable fisheries: all fishcakes are made Borough Council.
with oak-smoked, line-caught, sustainable haddock: we use only British Lion Quality free-range eggs and cook with virtually trans-fat-free oil.
Community All of the Companys food suppliers are accredited by the Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of any British Retail Consortium.
community and we aim to continue that tradition by supporting and building relationships with the local The Company is working with the Food Standards Agency community, through employment and the provision of FSA and its suppliers to reduce the salt, saturated fats services and investment in the local area.
We aim to ensure and sugar levels in its menu offering, in line with the that we provide full access for those with disabilities.
The Company is the largest single corporate fund-raiser Working with suppliers for the CLIC Sargent charity caring for children with The Company usually seeks to promote long-term cancer and their families, a partnership now in its eighth relationships with its suppliers and supports UK farming, consecutive year, raising over 4.6 million to date, with a using British chips and British beef in its beef burgers, pledge to raise a further 1 million annually.
During the lasagne, chilli con carne, steak & kidney pudding and past financial year, we have raised 1,080,612. beef & Abbot Ale pie.
Where practicable, the Company works with suppliers, Environment contractors and partners to minimise environmental impact and encourage sustainable sourcing.
The environment The Company encourages measures which promote The Company supports brewers of all sizes, across the UK recycling and reduced energy consumption.
It is the and Ireland, so that customers can enjoy a diverse range Companys policy to: of real ales.
Wetherspoon has supported the revival of minimise the extent of the environmental impact, microbrewers through real-ale festivals, exhibitions, meetwhere reasonably practicable.
the-brewer events and the promotion and stocking of conserve energy through minimising consumption and their beers.
Every pub endeavours to have at least four maximising efficiency.
ales available at all times, of which two are locally promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise sourced.
There are 239 Wetherspoon pubs listed in the waste and allow materials to be recycled.
CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2012 2011: 235 a larger adopt efficient waste-management strategies which proportion than any other pub company.
reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or other disposal sites.
The Company seeks to carry out its business honestly, seek to minimise any emissions or effluents which may ethically and with respect for the rights and interests of cause environmental damage.
The Company endeavours to ensure that relations with customers, suppliers and business Over the past 12 months, the Company has partners are mutually beneficial and expects its business complemented its policy with several initiatives, including practices and standards to be upheld.
areas around energy-efficiency, recycling, ethical working and health & safety.
Health and safety The Company seeks to promote high standards of safety, Energy-efficiency throughout the business, by endeavouring to ensure that The Company recognises that energy consumption is employees attend appropriate training.
Pubs are regularly unavoidable, but understands that we have a assessed for risks, with relevant solutions identified to responsibility for those resources which we use and that address them.
Pubs are also regularly audited for safety.
good environmental management is an essential part of Of our pubs, 86% now have scores of four or five stars, being a responsible business.
46 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In the last year, we have been working with Carbon In addition, the business has a dedicated supply chain for Statement to measure each pubs carbon footprint.
its food, bottled drinks and non-consumable products, so Carbon Statement produces a weekly carbon emissions that material can be returned to the Companys recycling report for each pub, detailing the amount of carbon operation, reducing the required number of road miles.
dioxide CO emitted by each pub, through energy usage In 2009, the Company was awarded a Certificate of 2 and waste disposal, as well as the CO emission reduction Environmental Achievement by Daventry District Council, 2 through recycling.
Carbon Statement has also assisted us in recognition of the excellent waste-minimisation in ensuring that we comply with the governments progress achieved to date.
Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, which started in April 2010.
Anaerobic waste-recycling We are trialling an anaerobic digestion solution in 30 of The Company also aims to ensure that, when new pubs our pubs, with the aim of reducing, by 85%, the amount are developed or current ones upgraded, equipment and of their food waste going to landfill.
This will be processes are introduced to minimise ongoing energy introduced nationally, if the trial proves to be a success.
Sustainability reduce, reuse, recycle Su Cacioppo The Company aims to reduce the amount of waste going Personnel and Legal Director to landfill and other disposal sites, through a combination 9 September 2011 of packaging reduction, reusing packaging and the recycling of waste products.
Reduce The Company continues to work with suppliers, to reduce packaging materials brought into the pubs.
This leads to fewer deliveries and reduces the required number of road miles.
Reuse Old uniforms and personal protective equipment are sent to The Fire Fighters Charity, where they are reused either in the UK or internationally.
Where possible, some electrical equipment is transferred among pubs, by our distribution fleet, to help to reuse equipment.
Recycle During the financial year 2010 11, the Company recycled 7,470 tonnes of waste, an increase of 15% on the previous year.
This included 42 tonnes of aluminium, 4,457 tonnes of cardboard and paper, 2,460 tonnes of cooking oil, 391 tonnes of plastic and 120 tonnes of steel.
Glass-recycling will continue to be a major focus for the current year.
The business generates over 15,000 tonnes of glass per annum and we have joined forces with Biffa, our waste-disposal partner, to roll out glass-recycling across the estate.
The Company successfully recycled 10,447 tonnes of glass in this financial year and aims to increase this to 90% of the glass supplied to pubs.
We have recently commenced a glass-crushing trial, in an effort to improve this area further.
