30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Core Values People 1 To operate at the highest levels we know that With over 39,000 employees we need to invest in our people wherever globally, we are a people they are located and whatever role they hold.
We work in an Our extensive training and development industry that plays a vital role programmes are designed to help them learn new skills and refine existing ones.
Our in the world economy, creating successful apprenticeships, traineeships, and maintaining essential and industry-leading graduate development installations from pipelines and programmes are an investment in the platforms to power plants.
We future of the Group with 66 recruited into these schemes in 2011 2010: 104.
Our aim to have highly skilled and management and supervisory development highly motivated people working programmes help our senior managers to in effective teams.
We are an further develop their own skills and prepare for exciting business that offers a progression in their own careers.
In addition 2 to Group-led programmes, there are a range variety of career opportunities of other courses provided locally to focus around the world to our people.
on personal development, specific jobrelated skills, and vocational and professional We endeavour to attract, develop and retain qualifications.
the best people this means treating them fairly and honestly, respecting their individual We encourage innovation and fresh thinking differences and helping them to achieve their that embraces our cultural diversity and full potential.
We strive to create a stimulating encourages the kind of effective teamwork that work environment and celebrate success.
results in tailored solutions to client problems across different environments.
In 2011 we were again recognised by the Corporate Research Foundation as one of Britains Top Employers, based on a broad assessment of rewards, development, working conditions and culture.
We attach great Peter Nicholson importance to employee communication and engagement, and continue to look to improve our communication channels.
Our Group 3 Communications team uses our intranet to keep people up to date with developments, including messages from the Chief Executive and other Directors.
Delivering technical training to develop our 9% people and build their expertise.
People are our business and we treat them 20 Middle East & Africa 15% fairly, honestly and respect their individual 10 differences.
Training programmes to develop our peoples Central & South America 2009 2010 2011 management skills.
Regional headcount Headcount year end Energy Supporting Energy 28,200 28,900 39,200
