Operational review go online at www.
com 29 : Social 1 Responsibility In 2011, we participated for the first time Being socially responsible is in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP for integral to the way we operate, Carbon Emission.
The CDP is an independent it means doing the right not-for-profit organisation holding the largest thing for the right reasons, database of primary corporate climate change information in the world which not just because it enhances allows us to set reduction targets and make our reputation.
In the FTSE 350 local businesses and skills report, we were ranked 88th and were 6th to encourage sustainable placed amongst the 20 energy companies participating.
We were also the highestcommunity development.
We scoring company out of the 37 disclosing their hire local people and work with information for the first time.
Group companies local supply chains.
We provide that have focused on carbon management training to local workers and have improved efficiency, reduced energy 2 costs and, we believe, enhanced their image support to local companies.
UK-based companies participated Social responsibility for us is in the CDP during 2011 and this will be rolled about creating a safe and ethical out across the Group in a phased approach environment in which our people with the next region being the USA.
We have also entered the Carbon Reduction can thrive, maintaining a healthy Commitment, a UK Government scheme to workplace and minimising incentivise carbon emissions reduction.
In 2011 we staged a global Environmental Day during which employees were encouraged We want our people to be active in their to organise a wide range of events to raise community.
We believe in making a positive awareness, share best practice and encourage 3 difference in the communities in which our behavioural change at both work and home.
We support an extensive Activities included cleaning beaches in range of local and international charities and Australia, learning about fuel-efficient driving in causes spanning health, education, the arts, Aberdeen and a worldwide competition Be medical research and the prevention and Future Friendly to encourage companies to reduction of poverty.
We have well-established participate in new initiatives.
employee-giving funds to support the causes that our people care passionately about.
We have also used our expertise in reducing During 2011 we have supported the North emissions, improving energy efficiency, carbon East of Scotland final of the national KNEX capture and storage, and renewable energy Young Engineers Challenge, the Aberdeen to help our customers develop cleaner energy International Youth Festival, Glencraft and the solutions.
Numerous firms use our E!CEMS Aberdeen University Word Festival in the UK.
software to help them monitor and reduce In the USA we supported the Alley Theatre emissions from their operations.
Our specialist schools project, the Texas Childrens Hospital renewable energy consultancy, SgurrEnergy, and the MS150 bike ride.
In Australia, we have assessed over 65,000 MW of renewable supported residents affected by flooding in energy developments internationally.
We were Queensland by helping move people and their awarded work with National Grid Carbon belongings to dry land.
NGC to perform study work in relation to 1.
Supporting Glencraft a social enterprise in development options NGC is investigating to Together with our customers, business Aberdeen to promote their new product range transport and inject carbon dioxide CO2 into partners and suppliers we seek ways to locally.
a prospective offshore saline aquifer storage conserve resources, reduce waste and 2.
Extending our services to clean energy and location in the UK sector of the Southern emissions, and prevent environmental supporting clients to deliver renewable energy North Sea.
Our main CO2 emissions come from energy 3.
Supporting the communities we operate in use in our buildings and business travel by with opportunities for local people.
employees: we are committed to improving performance in both these areas and our Bob Keiller Carbon Footprint programme has now been extended across all Engineering companies and will continue to be rolled out across the Group.
In Houston, Mustang received the Clean Air Champion of the Year award from Houston-Galveston Area Council for their ongoing commitment to improving the regions air quality.
