Sustainability Business Review Johnson Matthey is a leader in sustainable technologies and many Seven Sustainability Targets of the groups products enhance the quality of life for millions We have established seven challenging targets and aspirations through their beneficial impact on the environment, human to support our Sustainability 2017 Vision as illustrated below.
Progress towards these is detailed on pages 46 and 47.
We have Sustainability is a key element of our strategy for future developed appropriate key performance indicators to enable growth where the resource efficient, environmentally responsible us to monitor performance and data is reported relative to a manufacturing of products that deliver sustainability benefits can baseline year which, unless stated, is taken as our performance leverage commercial advantage for the group.
The groups Sustainability 2017 Vision, launched in December 2007, sets out our direction and aspirations for building a more sustainable business and includes challenging Challenging aspirational targets: targets to support business growth.
Our aims are to at least double our underlying earnings per share whilst achieving carbon neutrality, zero waste to landfill and halving the key resources that we consume per unit of output by 2017, the 200th anniversary At least double of Johnson Mattheys foundation.
The full statement is available earnings per share on the companys website at www.
Some of the progress we have made towards achieving the vision is presented in summary in this report.
Further details can Achieve carbon be found in Johnson Mattheys 2010 11 Sustainability Report neutrality which will be published on the website in July 2011.
Johnson Mattheys sustainability strategy is underpinned by two business drivers, five key elements and seven sustainability targets.
Achieve zero waste Two Business Drivers to landfill There are two key business drivers for sustainability.
The first focuses on our internal operations and on designing and Halve key resources manufacturing our products more efficiently using fewer resources.
This approach helps us to reduce our costs and at the same consumed per unit time reduces our impact on the planet.
The second driver of output concerns our products and services and focuses on developing improved, more efficient products for our customers.
By doing this we can enhance our customers performance and improve their Reduce annual sustainability footprint which will improve our competitiveness.
Together these drivers support the development of products and incidence of services which have a beneficial impact on the planet, be it occupational illness through human health, social or environmental improvements.
cases by at least 30% Five Key Elements over the five years to Growing our business through sustainability is not only about 2013 14 our operations and products.
We are also committed to best practice in governance, to creating a positive working environment for employees and to being a responsible partner Achieve a zero for our customers, suppliers and communities.
Sustainability is greater than three managed across the group according to five elements: financial: governance: social: health and safety: and environment as day accidents illustrated below.
safety target The Elements of Sustainability Social Environment Employee development, wellbeing, recruitment Responsible operations Implement ISO 14001 Safeguard reputation Beneficial products at all manufacturing sites by 2010 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Health and Safety Governance Employees, customers, communities Well run business Beneficial products Transparent reporting Financial Must be profitable to be sustainable Align financial and sustainability targets Johnson Matthey 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Sustainability Business Review Progress Towards Sustainability At Least Double Underlying Earnings per Share EPS On Track pence 180 For Johnson Matthey, profitability and sustainability are inextricably linked.
This target is 164.4p 160 of particular importance as performance against all our other sustainability indicators can have an impact on profitability.
The first three years of the Sustainability 2017 140 programme coincided with the severe global recession which impacted Johnson 120 Mattheys performance.
Despite this the group weathered the storm extremely well as a result of its diverse portfolio of businesses, global spread and the contribution of 100 sustainability initiatives.
Based upon performance to date we believe the group is on 80 track to meet its target.
This will be supported by the many opportunities for growth 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 in our businesses over the years ahead as described in the Group Strategy section on EPS Projection to 2017 Target pages 8 to 13 and in the case study examples throughout this report.
Achieve Carbon Neutrality Action Required Total Global Warming Potential Tonnes CO equivalent 2 450,000 For Johnson Matthey the working definition of carbon neutrality states: Achieving 400,000 carbon neutrality means that through a transparent process of 1 calculating emissions, 350,000 Residual GWP 300,000 2 reducing those emissions and 3 offsetting residual emissions, our net carbon 250,000 emissions equal zero.
JM 200,000 approach We have robust processes in place to calculate our carbon dioxide CO emissions 150,000 2 100,000 measured according to the groups total global warming potential GWP and since 50,000 Net zero the launch of Sustainability 2017, group facilities have been engaged in a wide range of 0 energy efficiency initiatives to reduce our total CO emissions.
Businesses are also setting 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2 energy reduction targets as part of their annual sustainability plans to drive further Projection to 2017 Target GWP progress.
We have been very successful in improving our energy efficiency and every year have been able to demonstrate reductions in energy use per unit of output since the launch of Sustainability 2017.
Yet despite the excellent initiatives underway, we are faced with the challenge of driving down our absolute CO emissions whilst at the same time growing our business.
In 2010 11 our total GWP has increased by 6% against the 2 2006 07 baseline year as production increased in response to increased market demand, several new plants came fully on line and we acquired new manufacturing facilities.
Technical programmes are underway to further improve the energy efficiency of our processes.
Alongside this we are developing an approach to address our carbon neutrality aspiration of achieving net zero carbon.
This approach does not rely on the purchase of external offsets and will underpin and encourage the development of new low carbon and clean technology products for our customers.
We plan to audit our products, especially those introduced since the launch of Sustainability 2017, and evaluate their contribution to broader sustainability issues.
Although still in its conceptual stages, the establishment of this approach would drive emissions reductions and new product development in Johnson Matthey and ultimately support the generation of new sustainable products for our customers the second key business driver for Sustainability 2017.
Further details on our performance against this target will be presented in the Sustainability Report.
Data for 2007 and 2008 is for year ended 31st December 2006 and 2007 respectively.
Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill Good Progress Tonnes 22,000 The amount of waste sent to landfill has fallen by 63% since the baseline year.
It is noted 20,000 18,000 however, that in the first full year of Sustainability 2017 we saw a substantial decrease 16,000 in the amount of waste sent to landfill as a result of new European regulations.
This 14,000 12,000 decrease was driven mainly by these regulations with only a small contribution from 10,000 8,000 initiatives in the group.
We are making good progress towards our target although in 6,000 2010 11 waste to landfill has increased slightly on last year as a result of business growth.
4,000 2,000 Zero We are working on a number of approaches to bridge the gap to 2017 including the 0 application of lean manufacturing principles, recycling, improving our loss to yield ratios 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 and the introduction of reuse technologies which can convert our waste into energy.
In Waste to Landfill Projection to 2017 Target the future we would look to broaden the scope of this particular goal to reduce all waste, not just waste to landfill.
That said, progress to date is good and we believe we are on track to deliver further financial savings, improved manufacturing efficiency and reduced environmental burden through striving towards zero waste to landfill.
46 Halve Key Resources per Unit of Output On Track Electricity, Natural Gas, Water 3 GJ m sales ex pms 000m m sales ex pms 1,800 1.5 Resource efficiency is the first key business driver of Sustainability 2017.
Our goal is to 1,600 cut consumption of key resources per million of sales excluding the value of precious 1,400 1.0 metals by 50% by 2017.
In 2008 the top three key resources were identified for each 1,200 facility in Johnson Matthey and electricity consumption, natural gas consumption and 0.713 1,000 water use emerged clearly as the most significant to the majority of the group.
In all 0.5 800 802 three cases, we are making very good progress.
Against the baseline year, electricity 600 549 consumption per unit of output is down 35%, natural gas consumption per unit of 400 0.0 output has reduced by 30% and water use per unit of output is 37% lower.
This performance has been achieved Electricity Consumption GJ m sales ex pms through applying lean manufacturing principles, optimising energy use and by introducing Natural Gas Consumption GJ m sales ex pms water recycling and harvesting projects.
Work is underway to maintain progress 3 Water Consumption 000m m sales ex pms through further process optimisation initiatives and the integration of new, more Projection to 2017 Target resource efficient manufacturing technologies where possible.
We continue to review which resources are most significant to the group.
Reduce Annual Incidence of Occupational Illness Cases by at Least 30% by 2013 14 Target Achieved Annual incidence per 1,000 employees 6.0 The health and wellbeing of everyone in Johnson Matthey is a major priority and the 5.0 company is committed to minimising workplace related negative health effects.
In 3.7 4.0 2010 11 there was a significant reduction in the annual incidence of occupational illness cases to 3.5 cases per 1,000 employees, down from 5.2 cases per 1,000 employees in 3.0 2009 10.
This beats the target to reduce the annual incidence of occupational illness 2.0 cases by at least 30% to 3.7 cases or less per 1,000 employees by 2013 14.
Further 1.0 details on how this has been achieved and plans to maintain performance over the 0.0 year ahead are provided on pages 54 and 55.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Projection to Target Annual incidence per 1,000 employees Baseline is data for calendar year 2008.
Achieve a Zero Greater Than Three Day Accidents Target Action Required Growing our business through sustainability is not only about our operations and products.
Protecting the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees has always been a key priority in Johnson Matthey and it is their contribution that will underpin the growth of our business in the years ahead.
In 2008 09 we saw a disappointing increase in our lost time accident rate but prompt action was taken to revitalise our accident prevention processes.
As a result, our rate of occupational accidents involving lost time had fallen to its lowest reported level by March 2010.
Our performance has reached a plateau during 2010 11 with an increase in accident rates by the end of the year as shown in the graph on page 53.
A number of initiatives are underway to encourage further reductions and are described further on page 54.
Any accident is unacceptable and the group continues to focus hard on progressing towards a target of zero accidents.
Implement ISO 14001 at all Manufacturing Sites by 2010 Target Not Met Operating our business in an environmentally responsible way is a cornerstone of sustainability.
The ISO 14001 environmental management system provides a solid foundation for achieving and maintaining high standards and for driving improved performance.
All of the groups major manufacturing sites are required to implement ISO 14001 with a target of achieving registration by 2010.
By 31st March 2011, all but one of our major manufacturing sites had achieved registration with the remaining site on track to do so in 2011 12.
Newly commissioned acquired businesses will work towards achieving compliance with ISO 14001, which will normally be expected within two years.
Johnson Matthey 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Sustainability Business Review Sustainability Strategy Review Impact of Products in the Market Place: The benefits of our products and services in the market place are an In February 2011 the group undertook a detailed review of its important aspect of Johnson Mattheys sustainability strategy.
The Chief Executives Committee and The group will develop an approach to assess the impact around a further 30 representatives from across the group of our products in use, building on the ongoing life cycle participated in the one day session.
The session focused on two analysis work.
In 2010 11 a Life Cycle Experts group was areas, aligned with the two business drivers of Sustainability 2017: established and a cross business programme is already Review of strategy and progress to date, identification of progressing to quantify the sustainability benefits of our priority actions and strategy development to 2017 and products in specific applications and markets.
is now underway on the life cycle of platinum group metals pgms from mine to use in an autocatalyst, recycling and Examination of potential new markets outside of our current core focus to identify new growth opportunities for then refining to recover the pgms.
The experts group is also determining further products and applications for future the company.
Opportunities in a number of sustainability related areas were explored including agriculture, biomass, studies as we continue our work to demonstrate the benefits of our products on the environment, resource energy and healthcare.
This important piece of work underpins our second driver of Sustainability 2017 to efficiency and on human health and wellbeing.
develop new, more sustainable products.
It also supports Based on the conclusions and actions arising from the the business development and R&D work underway to strategy review, the group sustainability team is now developing drive growth in a series of new business areas and develop a plan to address the issues identified and to further develop a major new division for Johnson Matthey.
the groups long term sustainability strategy.
Nothing was raised during the strategy review to suggest that Johnson Matthey should radically change direction or Managing Sustainability significantly change its Sustainability 2017 targets.
The Sustainability is embedded into Johnson Mattheys routine fundamental strategy, based on the two business drivers and five management processes, including risk management processes.
elements of a sustainable business, was supported and a number All of the groups businesses are required to develop, implement of areas to evolve the strategy were identified as outlined below.
and report progress on their own sustainability plans as part of Carbon Neutrality: It was agreed that there are challenges the groups annual financial budgeting process.
These plans have associated with understanding and communicating the the common corporate objectives as their foundation and are definitions and boundaries associated with carbon tailored to the businesses own specific operations.
This approach neutrality, including how we articulate the sustainability encourages commitment at a local level and takes advantage of benefits of our products and results of life cycle Johnson Mattheys culture and methods of working.
The group should therefore clarify what is As previously described on page 45, sustainability is meant by carbon neutrality and communicate this to managed across the group according to five elements: financial: improve understanding.
governance: social: health and safety: and environment.
Resource Use per Unit of Output: Whilst million of Financial sales excluding the value of precious metals is an appropriate unit of output at a group level, the unit of output should Financial viability is a key element of sustainability.
Continued be examined at business level to identify the most suitable growth in profit is an important aspiration of our Sustainability metric for individual businesses.
Key resources should also 2017 Vision and we have set a target to more than double our be revisited to assess if other resources other than underlying earnings per share by 2017.
Details of our progress electricity, natural gas and water have a material impact.
The are outlined in the Financial Review section on pages 34 to 36, importance of these resources not only by monetary cost in the Group Key Performance Indicators section on pages 16 but according to other factors such as scarcity, volumes and 17 and in the Five Year Record on page 126. used, health safety impact or environmental burden The two key business drivers of our vision are about being should also be considered.
more efficient with the resources we use and designing new products that help our customers to be more sustainable.
Using Internal Communication and Sharing Good Practice: fewer resources as a business will save us money.
It will enable Internal communication and sharing good practice on us to maintain or improve our margins and allow us to invest sustainability was highlighted as an area for improvement.
more in R&D, manufacturing and infrastructure.
We have started It was felt that we have some of the right tools in place and to evaluate the monetary savings realised by our businesses action should be taken to more effectively promote their use.
through implementation of their Sustainability 2017 plans and This issue is of particular importance as the group continues estimate that savings of up to 25 million have been achieved to grow both in employee numbers and geographically.
since the launch of the programme.
These savings have been Scope of Targets: Johnson Matthey does not have specific achieved as a result of a large number of initiatives across all targets for social performance including employee our businesses.
performance metrics and community activities.
These social aspects are an important part of building a sustainable business and the group should consider broadening its targets to include them.
48 Designing innovative new products for our customers will Policies and Management Systems Environment, Health and Safety Johnson Matthey is committed to providing the highest level of allow us to maintain or strengthen our competitive position in the markets we serve today and benefit from the growth protection to the environment and to safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, customers, communities and other opportunities in emerging markets within the sustainability sector.
In 2010 11 a major proportion of profit was generated stakeholders.
This is supported by policies, a comprehensive management system, governance, careful risk assessment, by products that directly benefit the environment or enhance human health and wellbeing.
auditing and training which promote continuous improvement and ensure that high standards are achieved at sites worldwide.
We continue to work towards obtaining more robust evaluations of the financial benefits of our sustainability In addition, all facilities have developed local policies to meet international, national, local and corporate requirements.
programme and on establishing further metrics to monitor the financial impact of sustainability initiatives on business performance.
The EHS policy is a written statement, formulated and agreed by the Chief Executives Committee and approved by the board.
Signed by the Chief Executive, it is available at all sites, Governance is published on the website and forms the basis of the group Good governance is a cornerstone of sustainability and the EHS management system.
group has well established processes, policies and management The group EHS management system is available to all systems to support this which apply to all operations worldwide.
employees via the group intranet.
It is regularly reviewed and, Legal requirements are a minimum standard and in many cases together with the corporate policies and objectives, it defines our policies and systems are in advance of these.
Johnson Matthey accountability and sets the standards against which conformance has policies in the areas of Environment, Health and Safety EHS : audits are assessed.
During 2010 11 a comprehensive review of Employment: and Business Integrity and Ethics which provide the the management system was undertaken to ensure that our framework for managing environmental, social and governance policies, standards and guidance are up to date, reflect legislative matters.
These are presented on the companys website at updates and meet ongoing EHS requirements in our businesses.
Further details of our EHS compliance audits are conducted to maintain management processes, policies, initiatives and progress can be continuous improvement and all Johnson Matthey operated found on our website and in the Sustainability Report and are manufacturing and research and development facilities are presented here in summary.
included in the audit programme.
Audit frequency for each facility As outlined in the Corporate Governance section page 61 is determined by the scale, inherent risk and past performance the board has embedded environmental, social and governance of the operation.
Audits are carried out by experienced ISO matters into its risk management processes and formally qualified EHS professionals and controlled by the Group EHS reviews the area once a year.
These matters are monitored by Assurance Director.
Health management reviews are undertaken the CSR Compliance Committee, a sub-committee of the Chief every three to four years at all operational sites.
A description of the role of the CSR conducted by the Director of Group Health who provides Compliance Committee can be found on page 61. consulting advice to support the prioritisation and planning of programmes to optimise workplace health and promote workforce sustainability.
In addition, all businesses undertake annual health management improvement planning to adjust Managing Sustainability health programmes to meet changing business needs.
All audit reports, including health management reviews, are reviewed by the CSR Compliance Committee and appropriate follow up actions are taken on outstanding issues.
During 2010 11 a total of 30 detailed compliance audits and seven one day audit action reviews were completed.
Health management SUSTAINABLE reviews were conducted at 15 facilities.
BUSINESS A variety of training programmes are in place to support continuous improvement in EHS performance and regular meetings are held in Europe, North America and Asia to enable Health and Safety Social Environment Governance Financial the groups EHS professionals to network, share best practice LOCAL ACTION IN BUSINESSES and discuss the impact of future EHS legislation.
Putting principles into practice POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Key objectives for assessment and control of risks CSR COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Setting standards and overseeing Policy setting and approval Monitors performance compliance Identify and monitor EHS, Addresses risk and control issues Annual review of CSR risks social and governance risks JOHNSON MATTHEY BOARD Responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters Risk management processes and review Johnson Matthey 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Sustainability Business Review Regulatory Matters and Product Stewardship Similarly, employees who become disabled during their The group successfully completed all the planned first tier employment will be offered employment opportunities substance registrations within our corporate EU REACH consistent with their capabilities.
We value the diversity of our compliance programme this year.
Significant progress has also people as a core component of a sustainable business and been made in other projects and we continued to participate employment applications are welcomed and encouraged from in industry consortia to support our work.
We expect that the all sections of the community including minority groups.
majority of our next phase of registrations will be in place well The Management Development and Remuneration ahead of the REACH regulatory deadlines, so as to support Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring our customers.
compliance with the Training and Development Policy objectives Our businesses have made further progress in the transition in order to: to the Globally Harmonised System GHS for chemical Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
Work has included Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
updates to product safety datasheets and hazard labelling to comply with the new EU Classification, Labelling and Packaging Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
Regulation and similar activities were undertaken to meet Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
equivalent regulations in other regions.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
The comprehensive training update programme at our Understand employees aspirations.
North American facilities on the US Toxic Substances Control Act TSCA is now fully complete.
Provide development opportunities to meet employees As part of our commitment to the safe management of potential and aspirations.
chemicals throughout their life cycle, Johnson Matthey has During the year, a ten year human resources strategy has commenced a voluntary programme to establish expanded been developed to support business growth over the next product safety assessments for designated priority products.
In the coming year, significant recruitment in our aligns with the International Council of Chemical Associations operations in Asia will be a particular focus as our businesses ICCA best practices.
in the region continue to expand.
No notifications of significant health effects at end user level involving our products and no major incidents or environmental Policies and Management Systems Business Integrity and Ethics releases during product transportation and distribution were Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the highest standards of recorded during 2010 11.
On 30th August 2010 Johnson ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide to Matthey Inc.
Emission Control Technologies Heavy Duty Diesel ensure we act with integrity, transparency and with care for the settled an agreed penalty of $55,000 with the California Air rights of the individual.
The groups principles are set out in the Resources Board CARB in respect of a product mislabelling Business Integrity and Ethics Policy and issues are further infringement.
Actions have been taken by the business to safeguarded through corporate governance processes and prevent recurrence.
monitoring by the board and its committees.
The policy applies to all the groups employees and is presented on the website.
Policies and Management Systems Human Resources Compliance training is provided to employees to support The groups human resources standards are progressive, their understanding of and commitment to group policies in consistent and aimed at bringing out the best in our people.
order to protect and enhance the companys reputation.
The Group policies are supported by detailed regional and individual training educates managers in their responsibilities for business procedures which are regularly updated to reflect both employees, commercial contracts and company assets and is regional best practice and local legislation.
Site specific human delivered globally via online learning programmes and seminars.
resources policies and procedures are communicated to staff Online compliance training for employees across our global at inductions and through staff handbooks.
Human resources businesses relating to the UK Bribery Act 2011, Anti Money policies and risks are examined by the Chief Executives Laundering and Competition is being developed and in the US, Committee and the CSR Compliance Committee.
local training on compliance with this Act is already underway.
The groups policies on equal opportunities and training are All facilities have established policies and procedures for published on the website at www.
com sustainability and employees to raise employment related issues for consideration are detailed below.
A confidential and secure whistleblowing website Our Equal Opportunities Policy is to recruit, train and and telephone helpline are also in place to give all employees develop employees who meet the requirements of the job role, additional means to raise any issue of personal concern.
regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual Management of supply chain and contractor activities is a orientation or disability.
The policy recognises that people with core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series of disabilities can often be denied a fair chance at work because standards.
Supply chain and contractor management of misconceptions about their capabilities and seeks to enhance questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining the opportunities available by attempting, wherever possible, registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey to overcome obstacles, such as the need to modify equipment, operations require the completion of appropriate questionnaires.
restructure jobs or to improve access to premises, provided For those operations without ISO registration, the group EHS such action does not compromise health and safety standards.
management system provides policy and guidance on supply chain management and contractor control.
50 Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Average headcount for 2010 11 Average headcount for 2010 11 As at 31st March 2011 100 Rest of Corporate World 366 80 619 Fine Chemicals Asia 1,052 Europe 1,272 Environmental 60 4,887 Technologies 5,313 40 20 North Precious America Metal Products 2,610 2,657 0 Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World % Male % Female In May 2010 the group published its Ethical and Sustainable The skills, qualities and wellbeing of employees underpin Procurement Policy which is available on the website.
The policy the groups success.
An effective, streamlined recruitment provides clear guidance on various topics including those relating procedure supports the steady requirement for high calibre to the selection of suppliers, auditing against standards and graduates and career foundation training programmes are in ethical conduct with suppliers.
place to engage new recruits.
We also offer training and Johnson Matthey is confident of the human rights development programmes at middle and senior manager levels.
performance of its own operations but recognises that business Employees from acquired businesses are actively encouraged to practices in the supply chain are not always transparent and attend programmes to expose them to the wider group culture represent a risk that must be managed.
Every effort is made and help them integrate.
Our extensive portfolio of training is to ensure the issues are managed effectively.
We support the delivered at our facilities around the world and programmes principles defined within the United Nations Universal include presentations from senior executives to anchor the Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour course content to the companys strategies and progress.
Organisation Core Conventions including the conventions in During the year we have reviewed our existing training and relation to child labour, forced labour, non-discrimination, development programmes and, as a result, additional programmes freedom of association and collective bargaining.
We have introduced a sustainability awareness with and respect for these core principles are integrated within seminar to support and engage employees in our sustainability the risk assessment procedures and impact assessments which strategy, improve their understanding of our sustainability goals are undertaken when entering into business in a new territory and enable them to plan their contributions towards achieving and within the due diligence processes when making an local and corporate sustainability objectives.
An online version acquisition or entering a joint venture.
of this seminar has also been developed and is currently being During the year Johnson Mattheys North American trialled.
We also identified the need to provide more specific businesses developed a Conflict Free Minerals Policy in response development opportunities for managers in our manufacturing to reports on the role of conflict minerals in financing human operations and a new global manufacturing and leadership rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The programme has been launched to address this.
policy was published in March 2011 and is available on the website.
Our aim is to retain high potential and high performing staff.
Providing career development opportunities for employees assists in staff retention and in turn, succession planning and the Social sustainability of management.
Recruiting well qualified staff is Recruitment, Training, Development and Diversity vital to support business development, particularly in new and Johnson Mattheys employees are respected as the groups most emerging markets such as in Asia, and this is achieved by valuable resource and play a vital role in building a sustainable appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment and the business.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre employees encouragement of international and cross divisional mobility.
and providing them with the information, training and working The group has a management skills inventory database to help environment they need to perform to the highest standards.
to identify and match suitably qualified internal candidates to All employees are encouraged to develop to their maximum promotional and development opportunities globally and or potential, supported by human resources policies and practices across our divisions as we strive to place the right people with that are strategically linked to the needs of the business and the right skills in the right places.
Beyond satisfying the immediate our customers.
business needs, the company is committed to developing a more internationally diverse workforce to support its global business.
Johnson Matthey 51 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Sustainability Business Review During the year we took part in a consultation with the UK Community Investment Johnson Matthey has a strong tradition for good community Border Agency in relation to the UK governments plans in relation to immigration restrictions.
This continues to be an relations and the company and its employees are actively involved in programmes worldwide.
We have an important important issue for UK based businesses seeking to recruit the best people into roles in the UK and moving existing employees contribution to make to the economic development of our local communities, not only as an employer but also through from outside the UK into UK businesses.
The groups gender balance improved slightly this year to collaboration and investment, both financial and in kind.
Johnson Matthey is a member of the London Benchmarking Group LBG.
Guidance on site requirements for community relations is Employee Relations, Communication and Engagement detailed in the group EHS management system and a review of The quality of our employee relations is a priority for Johnson community investment activities across the group is carried out Matthey and the company is proud of the high level of each year.
In 2010 11, the review indicates that 93% all but commitment and loyalty from its employees.
We have a consistently three of Johnson Mattheys operations with over 50 employees low voluntary staff turnover 5.6% in 2010 11, see page 17 with participated in activities within their local communities.
This is many employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
slightly down on last year, mainly as a result of new manufacturing Effective two way communication with employees is facilities that commenced full operation in 2010 11 not yet important and in particular, face to face dialogue.
Communication having established community investment programmes.
The on matters of interest to employees is exchanged through the review also demonstrates that a higher proportion of sites with in house magazines, attitude surveys, regular news bulletins, over 50 employees have planned community investment presentations and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged activities for the year ahead.
to access the groups corporate intranet, sustainability intranet and Community activities at our sites are wide ranging and website.
As part of our ongoing programme of employee attitude include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the surveys, this year our Process Technologies business carried out a advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
survey amongst its 1,200 employees around the world.
Employees also participate in activities or hold community The company supports employee share ownership and related roles outside of the work environment.
The company employees have the opportunity to participate in share ownership is supportive of this broader community engagement, allowing plans, where practicable.
Under these plans, employees can buy employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
In shares in the company which are matched by a company funded efforts to further encourage volunteering amongst employees, component.
Employees in six countries are able to contribute to benchmarking studies on the approach taken by other a company share ownership plan or a 401k approved savings companies have been conducted this year.
As a result, a group investment plan.
Through these ownership plans Johnson Mattheys wide volunteering policy is being developed which will be issued current and former employees collectively held 1.84% of the during 2011 12.
This forms part of a broader programme of companys shares at 31st March 2011. work now underway to establish a more formal community Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for its investment strategy for the group.
This will continue in 2011 12 employees worldwide.
These pension plans are a combination of with the aim of establishing a community investment strategy defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements, and policy during the year to support our operations around savings schemes and provident funds designed to provide the world in developing their community programmes.
appropriate retirement benefits based on local laws, custom and Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable market practice.
causes continues today through group and business The group has recovered well from the global economic programmes.
The causes we support reflect the areas in which slowdown which forced us to reduce employee numbers in the groups technologies have a benefit and the issues which 2008 09.
In 2010 11 the groups average employee headcount strike a chord with our employees.
At a group level, Johnson has increased by 9% on prior year.
Matthey operates a charitable donations programme which Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and includes support for organisations working in the areas of constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which environment, medical and health, science and education, social collectively represent 38% of all group employees worldwide.
The programme includes During 2010 11 no working time was lost within the group due an annual donations scheme where a number of charities are to employee action.
selected triennially and receive a donation from the company The corporate sickness absence rate during 2010 11 was each year for a three year period.
In 2010 11 48 charitable 2.1% which is unchanged from 2009 10.
We continue to causes received an annual donation through this scheme.
The encourage our businesses to invest in sustainable health and group's programme also considers individual requests for wellness programmes to support the longer term health, support throughout the year and a further 58 charitable wellbeing and performance of our employees.
During the year organisations received donations on this basis in the year.
The a new web based health assessment package was launched to group also has a specific programme of support focused on employees in the UK which provides advice on improving health promoting the understanding and awareness of science among and wellbeing based on their answers to an online questionnaire.
children and young people and began work on a number of new projects this year.
March March March March March March 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total accident rate 3 Day accidents GJ 000 GJ m sales ex pms Stakeholder Engagement Johnson Matthey continues to select a charity partner to focus support on one particular cause and employee views are Johnson Matthey has a wide range of stakeholders with an interest in hearing from or working with the company.
These include customers, considered when identifying the charity.
The group is supporting the British Heart Foundation and other national heart federations employees, suppliers, fund managers, shareholders, communities, governments, non-governmental organisations NGOs and national around the world in a partnership that will run to the end of 2011 12.
Further details on the partnership are available in the and international trade associations.
We aim to provide meaningful and transparent communications to meet the needs of all stakeholder Sustainability Report.
Johnson Mattheys global sites also lend support to many groups and deliver information to them in the most appropriate format.
These formats may include annual performance reports, other charities locally and nationally through donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
In response to the participation in performance indices Carbon Disclosure Project, FTSE4Good, for example or one to one discussions on specific topics.
earthquake and tsunami which struck Japan in March 2011, Johnson Mattheys employees and businesses across the globe We communicate with our stakeholders throughout the year and engagement is integrated into business decision making processes.
have rallied together, raising funds to support relief efforts in Japan.
At a corporate level Johnson Matthey has donated 10,000 to The company is actively involved with the Chemical Industries Association CIA, the European Precious Metals Federation EPMF, The Japanese Red Cross via The British Red Cross to support the charitys relief efforts in the immediate aftermath of the the EU association of the non-ferrous metals industry Eurometaux and plays a leading advisory role through participation in government disaster.
Johnson Mattheys operations around the world have also offered support to their national Red Cross or Red bodies and a number of sector trade associations that are relevant to its business activities.
The company is also engaged with national Crescent Movements or other charitable relief agencies working in Japan.
For example, our Royston and Brimsdown sites in the and local government to inform the development of policy in areas where Johnson Mattheys technology and products can play a pivotal UK held a special fundraising day to raise money for the British Red Cross work in Japan.
Employees at the two sites were role.
During the year, as part of our programme of responsible care for our products, Johnson Matthey has taken a leading role in establishing encouraged to wear items of red clothing and make a donation at one of the donation points around the sites.
The majority of an industry sector group to improve the quality of existing risk assessments on applications of platinum group metals and to improve staff came to work dressed in something red from red socks to red nail polish.
The day was a great success and raised vital dialogue with external stakeholders.
Neil Carson, Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey, is a prominent funds to support efforts in Japan.
As the situation in Japan continues to develop, we are also consulting with our colleagues member of the Corporate Leaders Group and is a member of the Advisory Board for the Cambridge Programme for Sustainability at Johnson Matthey in Japan to discuss developments and identify appropriate local charitable initiatives to support longer Leadership.
A number of the companys senior management are involved in the UK governments sustainability and climate change term rebuilding and rehabilitation work in the country.
In the financial year to 31st March 2011 Johnson Matthey initiatives.
Johnson Mattheys executives have also made a contribution to a range of organisations and committees during the year and donated 517,000 to charitable organisations, up 13% on prior year.
This figure only includes donations made by Johnson the company continues to participate in numerous government consultations.
We have also continued to support the activities of Matthey and does not include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee time.
The company made no political Forum for the Future.
At regular meetings with the companys major shareholders, donations in the year.
We will continue to support a wide range of charitable causes in 2011 12. matters relating to sustainability and corporate social responsibility may be discussed together with the performance and development of the groups businesses.
2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 Tonnes CO Tonnes m Tonnes SO Tonnes m 2 2 equivalent 000 sales ex pms equivalent sales ex pms Health and Safety Throughout the organisation we need to remain vigilant about any incident that could result in multiple injuries or We are committed to minimising the health and safety related equipment damage and a programme of process safety audits impacts for employees, customers, communities and other are scheduled to address this issue.
In addition, implementation stakeholders and of our products in use.
In addition, many of our of the ten year group EHS strategy developed alongside the products and services make a contribution to enhancing general groups ten year business strategy will help support our target health and wellbeing or provide safety benefits.
of zero accidents over the years ahead.
For Johnson Matthey any accident is unacceptable and our The health, safety and wellbeing of contractors who are target is zero greater than three day accidents.
working on our sites is of equal importance to that of our Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are employees.
In October 2010, however, a contract company compiled monthly at group level.
Any accident is thoroughly employee working on a construction site at the Panki facility investigated to determine root causes and appropriate in India fell from a height and sustained multiple injuries.
preventative and corrective actions are assigned.
The groups five He was immediately rushed to the nearby hospital and received year performance is shown in the graph on page 53 and the emergency medical treatment.
Unfortunately, he did not rate of occupational accidents involving lost time is shown in the respond to the treatment and his life could not be saved.
Investigations have been completed by site personnel, supported by Group EHS department staff.
Employee Health and Safety Statistics Considerable action has been taken to improve the Change systems for the management of contractor health and safety and 2011 2010 % during 2010 11 new safety performance metrics specifically for Incidence of greater than three day contractors were introduced, similar to those already established 1 accidents per 1,000 employees 2.88 2.48 16 for group employees.
Total number of accidents that resulted 1 in lost time 73 63 16 The company engages temporary workers typically to 1 cover periods of long term sickness absence, maternity leave or Total accident rate per 1,000 employees 7.79 7.11 10 to manage seasonal variations in workload.
In 2010 11 there Total lost time accident incident rate per 1 100,000 hours worked 0.39 0.36 8 were 12 lost time contractor accidents five of which were Total number of days lost per 1,000 greater than three days reported.
This is equivalent to an annual employees 102 64 59 total lost time accident frequency rate of 0.50 accidents per 100,000 hours worked per year.
A corporate reporting system is used to report and investigate occupational illness cases arising as a result of exposure to workplace health hazards.
In 2010 11 there was a Following the increase in our lost time accident rate in 2008 09, the prompt action taken in 2009 10 to revitalise our significant reduction in the annual incidence of cases to 3.5 cases per 1,000 employees, down from 5.2 cases per 1,000 employees accident prevention processes resulted in our rate of occupational accidents involving lost time falling to its lowest in 2009 10.
This beats the target set in 2008 to reduce the annual incidence of occupational illness cases by at least 30% reported level by March 2010.
Data for 2010 11 indicates that our performance has reached a plateau during the year to to 3.7 cases or less per 1,000 employees by 2013 14.
March 2011 and we had an increase in accident rates towards the end of the year.
Work is underway to address this trend with programmes being piloted at sites around the world which focus on safety at site level and on ways to improve local safety culture.
3 3 Thousands m Thousands m Tonnes Tonnes m m sales ex pms sales ex pms Regional training programmes were delivered to over Business expansion has also impacted the groups energy 200 employees around the world this year to support the consumption, waste produced and water use which increased by implementation of new corporate EHS policy requirements for 19%, 26% and 19% respectively.
Waste sent to landfill increased chemical exposure management.
A new sustainable health leading by 1,094 tonnes 22% as a result of non-hazardous waste sent metrics scorecard was piloted and 80% of facilities globally to landfill by acquired and new facilities about 635 tonnes or 58% participated in its evaluation.
Based on the positive feedback of the increase and from stockpiling wastes at existing facilities.
received from facility management teams on the value of this The groups total acid gas emissions to air in SO equivalents 2 tool to continually improve health programmes, completion of were 5% lower this year.
the scorecard has now been made a requirement of the annual Energy consumption, GWP and water use all increased at health review and planning process.
The proportion of facilities a rate below the rate of growth of the groups sales excluding that completed the annual health review and planning process precious metals.
Work will continue to manage our environmental in 2010 11 was 87%, the highest level achieved since its impacts in the context of an expanding business by building on introduction in 2006. the best practice examples of performance improvement delivered so far, integration of lean manufacturing principles, process intensification and step change manufacturing Environment technologies.
The group remains committed to its Sustainability Johnson Matthey has an impact on the environment in many 2017 Vision of minimising the environmental impact of its ways: through the resources we use, the way we operate our operations, whilst creating products and technologies which manufacturing processes and the action of our products and have a beneficial impact on the planet.
services on enhancing the environment for others.
We undertake a comprehensive annual review of group Verification and Assurance environmental performance which covers all manufacturing and research and development facilities.
Five key performance The Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Chief Executives metrics energy consumption, global warming potential, acid gas Committee and CSR Compliance Committee review emissions, water use and waste produced are reported here sustainability issues as part of the companys risk management and are shown in the tables on pages 53 to 55.
The board believes that the internal measures taken necessary, past environmental data has been restated to reflect to review the sustainability information provide a high level of changes in the business, for example divestments and site closures, confidence.
Additional environmental performance Third party assurance of our full Sustainability Report has metrics and further details of the groups environmental again been commissioned and will use internationally recognised performance are presented in the Sustainability Report.
standards AA1000AS standard, the GRI Reporting Principles The groups total global warming potential GWP is based and ISO 26000 guidelines.
The 2010 11 Sustainability Report will on our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Data for 2010 11 has be published on the companys website at www.
com been calculated using the latest available emission factors as in July 2011. applicable for our operations internationally.
The groups GWP increased by 10% in 2010 11 as a result of new acquisitions about 46% of the increase, recently commissioned facilities reaching full production about 44% and from incremental increases across the groups manufacturing operations as demand for our products increased.
Johnson Matthey 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
