Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Discontinued operations In 2011, Kazakhmys Powers discontinued operations As explained above in the Basis of preparation, the recorded a post-tax loss of $13 million, resulting from Maikuben West coal mine, within the Kazakhmys Power the loss on disposal of the Maikuben West coal mine of Division, the Kazakhmys Petroleum Division and MKM $20 million, which is treated as a special item, compared to have been classied as discontinued operations within a post-tax profit of $47 million in 2010.
The loss on disposal the consolidated financial statements.
MKM continued to of the Maikuben West coal mine recognised in the year be treated as a discontinued operation throughout 2011, was determined by the excess of the net assets disposed while the Maikuben West coal mine and Kazakhmys over the proceeds received of $11 million and the $9 million Petroleum were treated as discontinued until the date transfer from equity of the unrealised exchange losses these businesses were disposed on 17 May 2011 and which arose on consolidation when converting the net 23 December 2011, respectively.
Accordingly, MKM assets, which are denominated in tenge, into US dollars.
represented the only asset held for sale as at 31December 2011.
The net profit reported in 2010 included the results of the Maikuben West coal mine for the full year and 100% of the results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 until its partial disposal $ million 2011 2010 on 26 February 2010, as well as a gain of $14 million Kazakhmys Power arising on the partial disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 which profit before tax excluding was also treated as a special item.
impairment losses and loss gain on disposal 8 57 MKM Loss gain on disposal 20 14 MKMs underlying operating results were strong, however Taxation charge 1 12 due to the negative IFRS inventory adjustment which Impairment loss on reects copper price movements between December remeasurement to fair value 12 2010 and December 2011 of $14 million and weakness in the Euro compared to the US dollar, MKMs profit before Loss profit for the year 13 47 tax excluding impairment losses fell by $56 million.
MKM profit before tax excluding A post-tax impairment charge of $9 million was impairment losses 18 74 recognised in 2011, net of a $2 million deferred tax Taxation credit charge 3 1 credit, to remeasure MKMs net assets to fair value.
In Impairment loss on 2010, MKM made a profit of $15 million which included remeasurement to fair value 9 58 apost-tax impairment loss of $46 million to write down the business to fair value and a positive IFRS inventory profit for the year 12 15 adjustment of $43 million.
Kazakhmys Petroleum Loss before tax excluding Kazakhmys Petroleum impairment losses and loss on The majority of the operating costs incurred by disposal 4 2 Kazakhmys Petroleum in 2010 and 2011 relate directly to Loss on disposal 24 its exploration activities and were therefore capitalised.
Taxation credit 1 1 Impairment loss on Following the adverse results from the drilling remeasurement to fair value 444 programme and the signing of a sales agreement for the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum in August 2011, an Loss for the year 471 1 impairment loss of $444 million was recognised to write Loss profit for the year from the business down to its recoverable amount, being the discontinued operations 472 61 net expected sales proceeds.
The net expected proceeds from the disposal was $100 million plus contingent Discontinued operations contributed a post-tax loss of consideration in the form of potential royalties of up to $472 million compared to a post-tax profit of $61 million $476 million, dependent upon future oil revenues.
In in the prior period, mainly due to the loss recognised on determining the consideration receivable, no value has the sale of the Maikuben West coal mine of $20 million, been assigned to the contingent consideration given the the impairment loss of $444 million recognised to inherent uncertainties in oil exploration and the adverse remeasure Kazakhmys Petroleum to fair value and the drilling results which led to the assets impairment.
subsequent loss on the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum of $24 million.
The sale completed on 23 December 2011, and from that date Kazakhmys Petroleum was no longer consolidated Kazakhmys Power and a loss on disposal of $24 million was recognised in the As discussed above, Kazakhmys Powers results for Groups income statement within discontinued operations, theyear ended 31 December 2011, in respect of also as a special item.
The loss arises from the recycling of discontinued operations, includes the Maikuben West the foreign currency translation reserves which arose on coal mine until its disposal on 17 May 2011, whilst the conversion of the tenge denominated assets and liabilities prior year included 100% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 for the of Kazakhmys Petroleum into US dollars.
period to 26 February 2010, the date 50% of the business was sold to Samruk-Kazyna, and the Maikuben West coal As a result of the impairment charge recognised and the mine for the full year.
loss realised on disposal of the business, Kazakhmys Petroleum made a loss for the year of $471 million compared to $1 million in the prior year.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 3 $ million 2011 2010 Underlying profit Underlying profit is considered a more informed measure Net loss profit attributable to of the performance of the Group as it removes nonequity holders of the Company recurring or variable non-trading items from the profit for from discontinued operations 472 61 the period, and their resulting tax and minority interest Special items: impacts.
It therefore provides a more consistent basis for Impairment charge against comparing the underlying trading performance of the intangible assets Kazakhmys Group between 2010 and 2011.
Petroleum 444 Impairment charge against The Groups Underlying profit for the year from property, plant and equipment continuing operations increased from $1,384 million to MKM 1 26 $1,475 million as the Group benefited from higher prices Provisions against inventories and greater equity accounted earnings from ENRC and MKM 8 44 Ekibastuz GRES-1.
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 44 The reconciliation of Underlying profit from profit Gain on disposal of share in attributable to equity holders of the Company is set subsidiary 14 out below.
Release of deferred tax liabilities resulting from impairment charges 2 12 $ million 2011 2010 Underlying profit from Net profit attributable to equity discontinued operations 23 105 holders of the Company from Total Underlying profit 1,498 1,489 continuing operations 1,402 1,389 Special items: Earnings per share Subsidiary businesses $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Additional death and disability benets obligation charge 146 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 930 1,450 Impairment charge against property, plant and equipment 11 13 Total Underlying profit 1,498 1,489 Impairment reversal against Weighted average number mining assets 7 of shares in issue million 534 535 Provisions released against EPS basic and diluted $ 1.75 2.71 inventories 19 18 EPS based on Underlying profit $ 2.80 2.79 Major social projects 130 Under the Groups share buy-back programme 5,559,710 Associate ordinary shares were purchased in 2011 leading to a Gain related to acquisition of decrease in the weighted average number of shares in joint venture 77 issue for the year.
As the share buy-back programme Acquisition related transaction commenced in September 2011, the impact on the credit costs 1 19 weighted average number of shares in issue has not Tax effect of non-recurring items been significant.
The shares purchased through the Subsidiary businesses 2 2 share buy-back programme are being held in treasury and are accounted for as own shares.
Associate Change in current and deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax asset on additional death and disability benets obligation 29 Deferred tax asset on major social projects 26 Release of deferred withholding tax liability 98 Change in tax rates in Kazakhstan: Subsidiary businesses 16 Associate 12 Underlying profit from continuing operations 1,475 1,384 www.
com 65 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Key financial indicators Cash ows The denitions of the key financial indicators are shown A summary of cash ows is shown below: in the Glossary and these measures, on a total Group $ million 2011 2010 basis including continuing and discontinued operations, Segmental EBITDA before joint are set out below: venture and associate 1,221 1,651 2011 2010 Impairment losses 462 84 Group EBITDA excluding special Share-based payment 4 3 items $ million 2,925 2,835 Dividends received from associate 113 62 EPS based on Underlying profit $ 2.80 2.79 1 Working capital movements 154 49 Free Cash Flow $ million 824 718 Interest paid 66 50 Net cash cost of copper after MET paid 264 230 by-product credits excluding Income tax paid 341 365 purchased concentrate USc lb 114 89 Foreign exchange and other movements 39 8 Dividends Net cash ows from operating The policy established at the time of Listing was for the activities 1,244 1,098 Company to maintain a dividend policy which took into account the profitability of the business and underlying Sustaining capital expenditure 420 380 growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its cash ows Free Cash Flow 824 718 and growth requirements.
The Directors would also Expansionary and new project ensure that dividend cover is prudently maintained.
capital expenditure 259 286 Interim and final dividends will be paid in the Major social projects 36 60 approximate proportions of one-third and two-thirds of Interest received 9 10 the total annual dividend, respectively.
Share buy-backs Dividends paid 129 80 and special dividends have been used in addition to the ordinary dividend to return surplus funds to shareholders.
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 16 16 In the second half of 2011, the Directors announced a Proceeds from disposal of share buy-back programme of up to $250 million, the subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 111 completion of which was subject to market conditions.
Cash related to disposal of the In 2011, 5.6 million shares were purchased, with a further subsidiary 107 2.1 million purchased in the period from 1 January 2012 Purchase of own shares under the to 26 March 2012, at a total cost of $110 million, Groups employee share-based representing 1.4% of the Companys shares in issue at the payment plans 5 4 commencement of the programme.
The Companys Purchase of own shares under the authority for this share buy-back programme expires in Groups share buy-back May 2012, and it is unlikely the announced programme programme 78 will be completedin full.
Other movements 16 10 The Directors recommend a final dividend for 2011 of Cash ow movement in 20.0 US cents per share, which together with the interim net funds debt 437 197 ordinary dividend of 8.0 US cents per share, gives a total 1 Working capital movements exclude any accruals relating to MET.
full year ordinary dividend of 28.0 US cents per share 2010: 22.0 US cents per share, based on the earnings for 2011.
The total dividend reects an approximate 12% payout ratio of the Groups full year Underlying profits as adjusted for the removal of ENRCs and Ekibastuz GRES-1s equity accounted earnings but including dividends received from ENRC during the year, plus an additional 5.0 US cents per share or $26.5 million.
The additional 5.0 US cents per share to the 12% payout ratio has been recommended by the Directors taking into account that the announced buy-back programme is unlikely to be completed in full and the Group retains its financial strength with available cash and long dated debt facilities in place.
Subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2012, the final dividend shall be paid on 15 May 2012.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 3 Summary of the year t a decrease of $66 million in prepayments and advances, resulting from the receipt of goods and services related Cash ows from operating activities were stronger to the Groups ongoing development projects: in 2011 compared to the prior year as the higher commodity prices improved profitability.
In addition, the t a positive movement in trade payables and other dividends received from ENRC and a positive working payables of $191 million at Kazakhmys Mining, capital movement offset the increased sustaining capital principally the accrual of $130 million related to expenditure.
Despite an increase in tax and interest the major social project expenditure: payments, Free Cash Flow, a key performance indicator t an increase in the level of trade receivables within of the Groups ability to translate earnings into cash ow, Kazakhmys Mining of $118 million due to larger was $824 million compared to $718 million in 2010. revenues in the latter part of 2010 and the timing of receipts: and Dividends received The Group received dividends of $113 million from ENRC t a significant increase at MKM in the value of inventory in 2011, compared to $62 million in 2010, representing of $70 million and trade receivables of $25 million driven by the higher copper prices experienced in the the 2010 final dividend and the 2011 interim dividend second half of 2010, when compared to those in 2009. of ENRC.
As explained above, dividends received have been credited against the carrying value of the investment in ENRC and are not included within the Despite these working capital movements, working Groups reported earnings.
capital levels continue to be tightly controlled and managed across all of the Groups businesses.
Working capital Working capital employed by the Group decreased Interest cash ows by $154 million during the year 2010: increase of Interest paid during the year was $66 million compared $49 million.
The 2011 working capital movement is to $50 million in the prior year, as both bi-annual interest primarily due to: payments on the CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilties were made in 2011 compared to one such payment in t inventory increases at Kazakhmys Mining of 2010 when the facilities were first drawn.
The higher $164 million as there was a build-up of gold bar due average effective interest rate and bi-annual payments to no sales taking place in the second half of the year under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities were following the restriction on exports imposed by the partially offset by lower interest charges under the PXF National Bank in July 2011, and also an increase in due to capital repayments of $525 million.
copper nished goods inventories of 6 kt across the year.
In addition, reecting rising input costs, the Interest received is at similar levels to 2011 at $9 million cost of raw material inventories has also risen since as larger average cash balances were offset by lower December 2010: deposit interest rates during 2011. t an increase of $77 million in prepayments and advances, attributable to rising expenditure on the Income taxes and mineral extraction tax Groups ongoing development projects, including VAT Total tax payments for the year were $605 million, that can only be reclaimed once revenue generating compared to $595 million in 2010, including $264 million activities commence at these projects: related to MET.
The higher tax payments in 2011 arise from the larger MET payments made due to stronger t lower trade receivables at Kazakhmys Mining of commodity prices and increased advance payments $87 million reecting the timing of sales and receipts: made for corporate income tax.
t a significant increase of $172 million in Kazakhmys Minings obligations for death and disability benets, The Group was in a net tax receivable position of mainly related to the accrual for payments to current $64 million, compared to $12 million at the end of 2010. and former employees for work-related injuries Income tax payments for the year of $341 million exceeded following amendments to the legislation in the total current income tax charge of $291 million due to Kazakhstan: and advance payments remitted during 2011 that had been t a decrease at MKM in the value of inventory of agreed earlier in the year with the tax authorities prior to $98 million and trade receivables of $12 million driven the decline in commodity prices in the second half of the by the lower copper prices experienced in the second year.
Of the total MET charge of $280 million, $66 million half of 2011, partially offset by lower accounts payable remains unpaid at 31 December 2011. of $30 million.
Free Cash Flow In 2010, the increase in working capital of $49 million The Groups Free Cash Flow of $824 million improved related to: from $718 million in the prior year as the higher earnings generated by the Group and dividends received from t inventory increases at Kazakhmys Mining of $83 million ENRC together with a favourable working capital as there was a build-up in work in progress in the fourth movement, were only partially offset by higher interest quarter of 2010 of material to be processed in 2011: and taxpayments and sustaining capital expenditure.
com 67 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Capital expenditure Reconciliation of Segmental EBITDA Total capital expenditure in 2011, excluding expenditure to Free Cash Flow $ million on major social projects, was $13 million greater than the $666 million spent in 2010, with expenditure focused 1 1,221 on sustaining the current business operations increasing 2 462 to $420 million from $380 million.
Expansionary and new 3 4 project capital expenditure was $27 million lower than 4 113 5 154 2010 at $259 million.
66 6 7 264 Sustaining capital expenditure within Kazakhmys Mining 8 341 included expenditure on the smelters, concentrators, 9 39 10 420 auxiliary workshops and the transport infrastructure to 11 824 maintain output levels, and the purchase of new mining equipment to improve availability.
Expenditure was also incurred on improving the health and safety and 1 Segmental EBITDA 2 Impairment losses operating conditions and practices at the mines, 3 Share-based payments including roof bolters, shotcret equipment and 4 Dividends received from associate ventilation units to improve air quality.
Equipment was 5 Working capital movements ordered to enable the re-opening of the Konyrat mine in 6 Interest paid 2012 which was suspended in 2008 due to unfavourable 7 MET paid commodity prices at that time.
8 Income tax paid 9 Foreign exchange and other movements The major items of expansionary capital expenditure during 10 Sustaining capital expenditure 11 Free Cash Flow the year include the feasibility study and engineering work on the sulphide ore deposit at Bozshakol, the continued on-site processing and infrastructure construction at the Balance sheet Bozymchak mine, the pre-feasibility work at the Aktogay Summary of movements mine and the ongoing development of the infrastructure As at 31 December 2011, the equity attributable to atthe West Nurkazgan mine.
owners of the Company was $8,825 million, compared to $8,206 million as at 31 December 2010, an increase In 2010, the Group spent $60 million as part of the of $619 million, as the Groups retained earnings grew Groups social development programme on major social due to the profits generated during the year.
The slight projects in Kazakhstan.
In 2011, an additional $36 million depreciation of the tenge over the year to 31 December was paid for construction work.
2011 has led to a non-cash loss of $21 million being recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve Investing cash ows within equity.
The non-cash loss arises due to the During 2011, proceeds were received from the disposal retranslation on consolidation of the Groups Kazakhstan of non-core businesses, Kazakhmys Petroleum and the based subsidiaries whose functional currency is the tenge.
Maikuben West coal mine of $119 million and $3 million respectively.
The net proceeds received were $111 million The Groups capital employed position at 31 December as the cash disposed within these businesses amounted 2011 is shown below: to $11 million.
$ million 2011 2010 In the prior year, a $107 million outow resulted from the deconsolidation of Ekibastuz GRES-1s net funds position Equity attributable to owners following the 50% disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 in of the Company 8,825 8,206 February 2010.
Non-controlling interests 7 13 Borrowings 1,893 1,819 Returns to shareholders Capital employed 10,725 10,038 The Group paid ordinary dividends of $129 million in 2011 representing the final 2010 dividend of $86 million ENRC and the 2011 interim dividend of $43 million.
In 2010, the Included on the Groups consolidated balance sheet at Group paid ordinary dividends of $80 million, being the 31 December 2011, as an investment in associate, is the final 2009 dividend of $48 million and the 2010 interim Groups 26% investment in ENRC, with a carrying value dividend of $32 million.
The Groups share of equity accounted earnings of $466 million Kazakhmys commenced a buy-back programme in 2010: $522 million and the share of losses of the associate September 2011 which by 31 December 2011 had recognised within equity of $109 million 2010: gain of purchased 1.1% of the Companys issued share capital $27 million for the year have been offset by $113 million at a cost of $78 million.
2010: $62 million of dividends received from ENRC in 2011.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 68 3 At 31 December 2011, the ENRC shareholding had a The Group has available several revolving credit facilities market value of $3,289 million 2010: $5,431 million based for general corporate purposes and to provide standby on the public price quotation on the London Stock liquidity.
Of the corporate credit facilities of $300 million Exchange.
The market value of the ENRC shareholding at entered into by the Group, facilities amounting to the year end was determined to be signicantly below the $250 million have maturity dates in March 2013 and a carrying value on the Groups balance sheet as envisaged facility amounting to $50 million has a maturity date in by IAS 39 and consequently an impairment review of the September 2013.
At 31 December 2011 all such facilities investment was undertaken at 31 December 2011.
No were undrawn and a further $1.4 billion remains available impairment has been recognised as the recoverable value to be drawn down under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna of the ENRC shareholding, as calculated on a value-in-use nancing facilities byDecember 2012. basis, exceeded the carrying value at 31 December 2011.
Cash and short-term deposits of the Groups continuing Ekibastuz GRES-1 Kazakhmys Power businesses as at 31 December 2011 were $1,912 million The Groups 50% interest is included on the consolidated compared to $1,469 million at 31 December 2010.
The balance sheet as an investment in joint venture at a increase is attributed to higher cash inows from operating carrying value of $838 million 2010: $742 million.
The activities, the receipt of $100 million for the sale of carrying value of the investment represents the fair value Kazakhmys Petroleum and the proceeds from borrowings of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 at acquisition, being the drawn under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities, deemed cost at 26 February 2010 of $703 million, and partially offset by continued monthly repayments under the Groups share of the subsequent post-tax profits the PXF.
Of the cash and short-term deposits as at and equity movements.
The Groups share of equity 31 December 2011, approximately $900 million accounted earnings of $100 million 2010: $38 million 2010: $500 million is reserved under the CDB Samrukfor the year has been offset by the share of Ekibastuz Kazyna nancing facilities for the development of the GRES-1s losses recognised within equity of $4 million Groups projects under the terms of the individual facility 2010: gains of $1 million.
agreements, with the balance being available to meet working capital needs and general corporate purposes.
Net funds debt Net funds debt consists of cash and cash equivalents, In order to manage counterparty and liquidity risk, surplus current investments and borrowings.
A summary of the funds within the Group are held predominantly in the UK net funds debt position of continuing operations is and funds remaining in Kazakhstan are utilised mainly for shown below: working capital purposes.
The funds in the UK are held primarily with major European and US financial institutions with minimum ratings of Standard & Poors Aand $ million 2011 2010 Moodys A3 and AAA rated liquidity funds.
At Cash and cash equivalents 1,102 1,113 31December 2011, $1,743 million 2010: $1,292 million Current investments 810 356 ofcash and short-term deposits were held in the UK, with Borrowings 1,893 1,819 $169 million 2010: $177 million being held in Kazakhstan.
1 Net funds debt 19 350 On 16 December 2011, the Group signed a $1.5 billion 1 Excludes MKM and Kazakhmys Power.
loan facility with the CDB, to be used for the development of the major copper project at Aktogay.
The loan facility The Groups net funds position net of capitalised consists of two separate agreements with similar terms arrangement fees of $23 million and excluding and conditions.
The first agreement is for up to $1.34 discontinued operations was $19 million compared with billion and the second agreement for up to RMB1.0 billion a net debt position of $350 million at 31 December 2010.
$157 million equivalent at the year end RMB $ exchange The improved cash inows in 2011, the receipt of rate.
The funds will be available to draw down over a $100 million from the sale of Kazakhmys Petroleum and three year period, following the satisfactory completion the increased dividend from ENRC converted the of the feasibility study, maturing 15 years from the date Groups net debt position into a net funds position as the of first draw down.
cash ows generated during the year were more than sufficient to support the capital expenditure programme, Analysis of net debt $ million full the Groups tax payments during the year and purchase $78 million of the Companys shares under the share buy-back programme.
Gross debt of continuing operations of $1,893 million is 19 11 $74 million higher than the $1,819 million at 31 December 2010, as the draw down of an additional $600 million during 10 350 the year $592 million net of fees under the $2.7 billion CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities was offset by the 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 continued monthly repayment of $44 million under the Borrowings PXF.
These monthly repayments have reduced the amount Current investments outstanding under the PXF by $525 million during the Cash and cash equivalents year to $612 million.
Of the funds drawn under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities, $1,000 million has been allocated to the Bozshakol project and $300 million for the development of the Bozymchak project, the gold copper deposit in Kyrgyzstan and other mid-sized projects.
com 69 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Discontinued operations The Groups core objectives in managing and controlling As explained in the Basis of preparation, following the itstax affairs and related tax risks are as follows: disposal of the Maikuben West coal mine on 17 May t ensuring compliance with applicable rules and 2011, only MKM has been classied as being held for sale regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group as at 31 December 2011.
As a result of this classication, operates: and MKMs assets and liabilities are separately shown within the consolidated balance sheet as single line items within t structuring the business in the most efficient and current assets and current liabilities.
The principal transparent manner with the emphasis being on the components of MKMs current assets include inventory maximisation of shareholder value.
and trade receivables balances of $95 million and The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach $114 million, respectively.
Current liabilities include to the management and control of its tax affairs and MKMs borrowings of $121 million.
As with the current related tax risks, and has therefore adopted a tax assets, theliabilities of the Maikuben West coal mine strategy, which has been approved by the Board, that were all derecognised when the disposal completed in isaimed at achieving the following objectives, thereby May 2011.
The net debt of MKM at 31 December 2011 aligning it with the Groups long-term strategy: was $112 million 2010: $185 million.
t the Groups tax risks are assessed as part of the On 21 July 2011, the MKM trade finance facility was Groups formal governance processes and are renanced for four years with a final maturity in July 2015. reviewed by the Chief Financial officer who reports The facility was also increased from 170 million to them to the Audit Committee on a regular basis: 220 million.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance at a rate of EURIBOR 2.25%.
The loan is secured over t significant tax risks, implications arising from those the inventories and receivables of MKM.
At 31 December risks and potential mitigating actions are considered by the Board when strategic decisions are being taken: 2011, borrowings under this facility were $121 million, down from $191 million at 31 December 2010, as a result t the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of of lower working capital requirements due to falling business are fully considered before proceeding: copper prices towards the end of the year and a weaker t the half year and annual effective tax rate and the Euro against the US dollar.
composition of the tax charge are reviewed by the Audit Committee as part of their remit in reviewing Taxation the half-yearly and annual reports: Tax strategy and risk management The Group is subject to taxation in the UK, Kazakhstan and t the Group builds an equitable relationship with the tax the various foreign countries in which it operates.
Tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates: legislation of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates t the Group takes appropriate tax advice from reputable differs and is subject to interpretation by management and professional rms: the government authorities, and as such, creates a risk of non-compliance with specic tax requirements.
Whilst the t where disputes arise with government authorities with Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance regard to the interpretation and application of tax legislation, the Group is committed to addressing the with tax legislation and contractual terms entered into that matter promptly and resolving the matter with the relate to tax, the absence of established case history, the relevant tax authority in an open and constructivemanner: complexity and judgemental nature of tax legislation in certain jurisdictions result in additional risk for the Group.
t the Group employs professional tax managers within Specic areas of interpretation include the applicability of the corporate head ofce and the operating businesses, stabilisation under the Groups operating licences, including and provides ongoing technical training to them.
subsoil use contracts, the deductibility of expenditure under the terms of the Groups subsoil use contracts and the Total tax contribution structuring of cross border transactions, particularly in respect During 2011, the Group including 100% of the joint venture, of the application of transfer pricing policies.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP paid $932 million 2010: $879 million in taxes across the countries in which it has a presence.
Company taxes, such as corporate income taxes, MET, environmental taxes and employer taxes, comprised $820 million 2010: $766 million of this total.
In addition, the Group indirectly contributed $110 million 2010: $113 million in employee taxes and withholding taxes primarily on interest payments and dividends, which the Group collected on behalf of government authorities and paid over to them.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70 3 Taxes paid directly to governments by category and region 1 $ million Central Asia UK Germany 2011 total 2010 total Taxes paid Corporate income taxes 377 20 1 398 390 Mineral extraction tax 264 264 230 Payroll taxes employers obligations 47 2 10 59 53 Customs and stamp duties 26 26 21 Taxes on properties 22 22 22 Environmental payments 47 47 44 Miscellaneous taxes 5 1 6 6 7882212 822 766 Taxes collected and remitted Withholding taxes on dividends, interest, services 6 6 24 Payroll taxes employees obligations 81 5 18 104 89 87518 110 113 Total 875 27 30 932 879 1 Includes Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan and includes 100% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP joint venture for the year.
Financial risk management Responsibility for financial risk management is undertaken Background primarily by the Groups centralised Treasury function, The Board is committed to maintaining a high standard operating under oversight of a Treasury Committee which of financial risk management within the Group.
The is chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly dened and consistently applied.
The significant risks identied by Kazakhmys that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, The Groups principal business is the identication, performance, strategy and prospects are set out in the extraction and processing of mineral resources.
The Risk Factors section on pages 34 to 37.
Details of the Group does not engage in speculative trading activities Groups system of internal control is set out in the and sales contracts are generally negotiated with trading Corporate Governance Report on pages 90 to 109. companies or end users.
The pricing basis applied in all sales contracts is referenced to prevailing market Financial risks benchmarks such as the ofcial settlement prices The principal financial risks arising from the Groups quoted by the LME.
In general, the policy of the Group activities are those relating to commodity price risk, foreign is not to hedge the underlying price exposure to its exchange risk, interest rate risk, counterparty credit risk, principal commodities, although in periods of high liquidity risk and capital structure.
The Group does not uncertainty or volatility the Group may consider some engage in any transactions of a speculative nature.
hedging of revenue and cost items in order to reduce volatility or risk on the Groups cash ows.
The Board may Commodity prices in certain circumstances authorise commodity hedging in The Groups mining revenues and earnings are directly order to guarantee the longer-term viability of certain impacted by uctuations in the prices of the commodities marginal cost operations or to satisfy the specic it produces.
The Groups principal commodities copper, covenant requirements of independently nanced zinc, gold and silver are priced via reference to global development projects.
metal exchanges, upon which pricing is derived from global demand and supply and inuenced by Additionally, in limited circumstances where it is not macroeconomic considerations and financial investment possible to structure intra-group commodity transactions cash ows.
The pricing of the Groups principal on back-to-back pricing terms, commodity hedges may commodities may also include a pre-determined margin be used to reduce the Groups exposure to short-term or discount depending on the terms of sales contracts.
Commodity prices, particularly those derived from global metal exchanges, may uctuate signicantly and may The Group has an investment of 26% in ENRC, a company have a material impact on the Groups financial results.
which is also exposed to similar financial risks as shown below.
The impact of these risks on ENRC will impact on its dividend stream and its own market capitalisation.
com 71 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued The Group manages potential downside commodity price The Group is exposed on its net investment in MKM to risk by focusing on maintaining its low cost producer the extent that movements in the Euro may make that status and also through the wider strategy of revenue investment more or less valuable.
The Group seeks to diversication.
Management closely monitors the impact mitigate that risk by raising MKMs debt nancing in of uctuations in commodity prices on the business and Euros, thus matching the negative exposure of the debt uses conservative pricing assumptions and sensitivity servicing against the positive exposure of the revenue.
analysis for its forecasting and investment appraisals.
From time to time, acquisitions and capital investments The Power business positions the Group as a significant may expose the Group to movements in other currencies net generator in the Kazakhstan power market.
The and the Group will consider hedging such exposures on Kazakh power market has a predominance of large a case by case basis.
industrial electricity users focused on the natural resource sector, and consequently, electricity demand tends to Interest rate risk broadly follow the commodity cycle.
Power tariffs are The Groups interest rate management policy is generally derived through a complex interaction of regional to borrow and invest at oating interest rates.
In some demand and supply imbalances, tempered by specic circumstances, an element of xed rate funding may be regulatory interventions to minimise the inationary considered appropriate.
Hedging via interest rate swaps pressure on domestic electricity users.
The Group sells or similar instruments may be undertaken during periods its power to a mix of wholesale and industrial customers where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term through directly negotiated bilateral contracts.
In April interest rates is more significant, or in periods when 2009, to encourage investment in the power sector, the interest rates are perceived to be below long-term Government introduced a framework to raise tariff historical averages.
ceilings for domestic electricity sales for the years 2009 to 2015.
The ceiling prices will be set by the Ministry of Counterparty credit risk Industry and New Technologies on an annual basis, The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on and are subject to the generator meeting capital balances and commitments due from third parties.
Group has adopted policies and procedures to control and monitor the distribution of these exposures to MKM is exposed to uctuations in the price of the metal minimise the risk of loss in the event of non-performance content of its products to the extent that metal purchases by counterparties.
price at different dates from nished goods sales.
MKM uses the natural hedge provided by the back-to-back The Groups mining business protects its exposure pricing of purchases and sales on its ongoing operations to customer credit risk by maintaining strong business to manage this pricing exposure.
Where there are relationships with customers and through a combination temporary mismatches in volumes, commodity futures of documentary credit instruments and requiring are used on a limited basis to ensure MKMs economic payment prior to delivery.
Within Kazakhmys Mining, position is not materially impacted by metal cash is received prior to delivery and transfer of title pricemovements.
of the goods for sales to European customers.
Sales to Chinese customers are made under letters of credit Foreign currency risk which are obtained prior to delivery and transfer of title The presentational currency of the Group is the US dollar, of the goods.
MKM manages its customer credit risk consistent with the pricing currency of the majority of the with debtor insurance.
Where possible, the Group, excluding MKM, attempts to conduct its business, maintains its Kazakhmys Power receives cash upfront or has short monetary assets and seeks to source corporate debt payment terms depending on the nature of the customer.
capital in US dollars so as to minimise its exposure to other currencies.
The Group retains surplus cash balances The Groups cash management policies emphasise in US dollars for capital expenditure, acquisitions and security and liquidity of funds ahead of investment return.
Working capital balances are The Groups surplus funds held outside Kazakhstan are maintained in a mix of US dollars and local currencies predominantly invested in US dollars.
Investments of cash depending on short-term requirements of the business.
and deposits are made only with approved counterparties Whilst there is a strong correlation between many mining of high credit worthiness and within credit limits assigned input costs and the US dollar, a significant portion of the to each counterparty.
In order to manage counterparty mining business operating costs are denominated in and liquidity risk, surplus funds within the Group are held local currencies, particularly the Kazakhstan tenge.
Rates predominantly in the UK and funds remaining in of exchange for these currencies relative to the US dollar Kazakhstan are utilised mainly for working capital could uctuate signicantly and may materially impact purposes, with the funds in the UK being held primarily the profitability of the underlying operations and the net with major European and US financial institutions.
These assets of the Group.
limits are reviewed on a regular basis to take account of developments in financial markets and updated Due to its geographic location, MKM conducts its accordingly.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration business in Euros and seeks to price its revenues in that of risks and therefore mitigate any financial loss through currency, being also the currency in which the majority of potential counterparty failure.
its operational costs are denominated.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72 3 Exposures are measured against maximum credit limits Impairment of assets assigned to each approved counterparty to ensure credit The Group reviews the carrying value of its non-current risk is effectively managed.
The Group must maintain investments to determine whether there is any indication alevel of cash and deposits in Kazakhstan with local that those assets are impaired.
The assessment of branches of international financial institutions and well whether an indicator of impairment has arisen can require established local Kazakhstan banks.
The Group limits its considerable judgement, taking account of future local cash and deposits to working capital requirements operational and financial plans, commodity prices, sales in Kazakhstan.
demand and the competitive environment.
In making these assessments for impairment, assets that do not Liquidity and capital management generate independent cash ows are allocated to an The Groups objectives with regard to managing its appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable liquidity and capital structure are to safeguard the amount of those assets, or CGUs, is measured at the business as a going concern, to maximise returns for higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to and requires significant estimates and assumptions to be maintain an optimal capital structure in order to lower made about future cash ows.
If the carrying amount of theoverall cost of capital.
the cash generating unit or asset exceeds its recoverable amount, then an impairment provision is recognised to The Group does not have a target debt equity ratio, but write down the carrying value of the cash generating unit has determined a maximum debt capacity based on a or the asset to its recoverable amount.
ratio of long-term normalised EBITDA which the Board believes establishes a sustainable level of gearing Management applies judgement in allocating assets to through the commodity cycle.
This ratio is reviewed in CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value conjunction with market conditions and prevailing of underlying cash ows and in selecting appropriate commodity prices in order to ensure an efficient capital discount rates to be applied within the value in use structure that is balanced against the risks of carrying calculation.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or excessive leverage.
The Group manages net debt to estimates and assumptions in the value in use calculation ensure that it does not exceed two times normalised could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
EBITDA through the commodity cycle, where Notes 6 and 9 commencing on pages 146 and 160, normalised EBITDA excludes special items and equity respectively, show the impairment charges recognised accounted earnings from ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1 in the year.
Included within the debt facilities are financial covenants related to maximum At 31 December 2011, the carrying value of the Groups borrowing levels determined by reference to net debt to equity investment in ENRC exceeded the market value of EBITDA and debt to equity ratios and minimum tangible the ENRC investment by an amount that the Directors net worth for which compliance certicates are produced.
deemed as significant as envisaged by IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
As a result, an The Group maintains back-up liquidity for debt maturing impairment review was performed in accordance with IAS within 12 months by way of committed revolving credit 36 Impairment of assets, which concluded that no facilities totalling $300 million and by maintaining cash impairment was necessary as the recoverable amount of the on the balance sheet.
ENRC investment, being its value-in-use, exceeded the carrying value.
Refer to note 2 i ii on page 137 for details.
Summary of critical accounting policies Summary Equity accounting Inherent in the application of many of the accounting At 31 December 2011, the Group owned 26% of ENRC policies used in preparing the financial statements is the PLC, a Kazakhstan-based mining company listed on the need for the Directors to exercise judgement and to London Stock Exchange.
The investment has been make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported recorded as an associate and accounted for under the amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the equity method as the Group has the ability to exercise financial statements and the reported amounts of significant inuence over ENRC as prescribed by IAS 28 revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
Set out in note 2 i on page 135 are The Groups interest in the net assets of ENRC is included the key judgements which the Directors believe are likely in Investments in associates in the consolidated balance to have the most significant effect on the amounts sheet and its interest in the results of ENRC, net of tax, is recognised in the financial statements.
The following included in the consolidated income statement in Share summary provides more information about the critical of profits from associate below operating profit.
The accounting policies and their application as opposed to Directors have applied judgement in determining that the specic judgements set out in note 2 i that could the Group has the ability to exercise significant inuence have a significant impact on the results of the Group and over ENRC.
should be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements.
com 73 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Useful economic lives and ore reserve estimates As at 31 December 2010, the most significant asset The Groups mining assets, classied within tangible where the Directors applied their judgement in the assets, are depreciated using the unit of production area of exploration and evaluation expenditure related method over the estimated economically recoverable to Kazakhmys Petroleum.
Note 2 i on page 136 sets reserves to which they relate, or over a shorter period out the considerations which the Directors applied in prior to the depletion of the reserves having regard to exercising their judgement on this asset which had a the assets physical life limitation.
The estimation process carrying value of $564 million as at 31 December 2010. for recoverable reserves is complex and involves The Kazakhmys Petroleum business was subsequently significant judgement, and assumptions relating to the disposed on 23 December 2011, such that no further life of the mine and ore reserves may change when new judgements were required to be applied on this asset information becomes available.
These assumptions by the Directors at 31 December 2011. include a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production Contingencies techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport Material contingencies facing the Group are set out costs, commodity demand, commodity prices, exchange in note 37 of the financial statements commencing on rates, processing and reclamation costs and discount page 187.
A contingent liability arises where: rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any t a past event has taken place for which the outcome changes in these assumptions, which may vary from will be confirmed only by the occurrence or nonperiod to period, are accounted for prospectively as they occurrence of one or more uncertain events outside could affect future depreciation rates and carrying values.
of the control of the Group: or A review of the Groups reserves and resources is undertaken on an annual basis by an independent t a present obligation exists but is not recognised competent person in accordance with the Australasian because it is not probable that an outow of resources Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral will be required to settle the obligation.
Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code.
An audit of the Groups reserves and A provision is made when a loss to the Group is likely resources by an independent competent person was to crystallise.
The assessment of the existence of a commissioned in 2010.
The scope of the audit can be contingency and its likely outcome, particularly if it is found in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
considered that a provision might be necessary, involves significant judgement taking all relevant factors into The majority of other items of property, plant and account.
As laws and regulations in Kazakhstan continue to equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over evolve, for example, in the areas of taxation, environment their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the and subsoil rights, uncertainties regarding contingencies appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually are greater than typically found in countries with more and any changes could affect prospective depreciation developed legal and regulatory frameworks.
rates and asset carrying values.
During 2011, the Directors have been required to Exploration and evaluation expenditure exercise their judgement over the applicability of The Groups accounting policy for exploration and stabilised environmental rates to the Groups operations evaluation expenditure results in certain items of in Kazakhstan, and the interpretation of the ruling of the expenditure being capitalised for an area of interest Supreme Court of Kazakhstan and tax audit assessments where it is considered likely to be recoverable by future for the periods 2006 to 2008, inclusive, in respect of excess exploitation or sale or where the activities have not profits tax and other taxes incurred by Kazakhmys Mining.
reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment Notes 32 and 37 on pages 179 and 187, respectively, set of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires the out the considerations which the Directors have applied in Directors to make certain estimates and assumptions as reaching their judgement as to the level of provisioning to future events and circumstances, in particular whether required for environmental payments, excess profits tax an economically viable extraction operation can be and other taxes relating to past and present periods.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under this accounting policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely for reasons such as failure to renew the licences or permits or indications that commercial recovery of the related reserves would not be achieved, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the income statement.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 3 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classication.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classied as held for sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not depreciated while classied as held for sale.
A non-current asset held for sale is presented separately in the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classied as held for sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections on the face of the balance sheet.
An asset or business is considered to be a discontinued operation if it has been sold or is classied as held for sale and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of either a separate major line of business or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an operation has been identied as discontinued, its net profit is presented separately from continuing operations.
Comparative information is reclassied so that net profit of prior periods are also presented separately.
In 2010, MKM and the Maikuben West coal mine were considered by the Directors as non-current assets held for sale and as discontinued operations based on criteria prescribed by the relevant accounting standard.
Following the disposal of the Maikuben West coal mine on 17 May 2011 and Kazakhmys Petroleum on 23 December 2011, only the disposal of MKM had not taken place by 31 December 2011.
The Directors have had to exercise their judgement in respect of the continued treatment of MKM as a non-current asset held for sale and as a discontinued operation.
The Directors judgements are detailed in note 2 i and note 6 on pages 135 and 146, respectively.
com 75 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Investing for responsible growth We are committed to being a responsible employer who carefully manages the risks that mining, smelting and power generation present to people and the environment.
The delivery of our strategy will always include the consideration of and investment in our workforce and the communities around us.
Introduction A message from Philip Aiken Our aim is to ensure our business growth enhances social Embedding a culture of responsibility depends on and economic development in the communities where visible commitment from the top.
Our Board and GHSE we operate, and that we remain a major contributor to Committee take the Companys responsibilities very the economy of Kazakhstan through our taxes, employee seriously and seek to lead by example.
Thats why every remuneration and spending.
GHSE Committee meeting takes place in Kazakhstan at one of our operational sites, and why the GHSE In doing so, we remain committed to being a responsible Committee is directly involved in investigating every employer which carefully manages the risks that mining, serious or fatal accident.
smelting and power generation present to people and the environment.
We continue to focus heavily on This section of our Annual Report and Accounts improving our health and safety performance, as a safe describes the progress we have made this year.
workplace is the minimum employees and contractors However, we recognise that there is much more to should expect.
do to full our responsibilities.
Building a reputation for responsibility will help increase We also know that improving our performance will access to the capital we need to invest for growth and bring multiple benets safe, productive workplaces lower our operational costs.
It will also help us build that attract the best employees: increased efficiency positive relationships with regulators and local and reduced costs: and greater trust and cooperation communities, and attract and retain the best employees.
among our employees, regulators, local communities and other stakeholders.
Managing our business responsibly Kazakhmys aims to run safe and efficient operations The GHSE Committee members remain fully and that meet regulatory requirements and international personally committed to playing an active role in standards.
Our operations manage risks to people and improving our performance and realising the the environment locally, with Group oversight.
The benets for all concerned.
material health, safety and environmental HSE risks included in our Group risk management process are set out on page 34.
HSE Organisation chart Board of Directors Group Health, Safety Fatal Accident and Environmental Review Panel Committee Chief Executive officer Chief Operating officer Divisional CEOs Divisional Health, Divisional Health, Safety and Safety and Environmental Environmental Committee Managers Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76 4 Organisation and responsibilities a group-wide energy efficiency and carbon reduction We continue to integrate HSE responsibilities into programme by 2015, and constructing treatment facilities production operations and to make clear these are part for non-process wastewater from bathrooms and kitchens of every job.
Every employee must follow our HSE at our Karagaily concentrator, Nurkazgan Complex, and policies and procedures at all times.
As shown in the Shatyrkul and  mines by the end diagram, our organisational structure provides clear of 2013. accountability for HSE management.
There is more information about the role and responsibilities of the Measuring performance GHSE Committee on page 109.
We continue to improve our data collection systems for corporate responsibility.
The data in this Corporate In 2011, we recruited a new Group Health and Safety Responsibility section was collected using a new system Manager to support our Chief Operating officer COO introduced in 2011 to ensure quality and consistency in implementing our health and safety plan and of reporting across our Mining and Power Divisions.
The COO continues to work As a result we have restated some 2010 data with more closely with the Group Human Resources Director to robust gures.
Where data has been restated this is strengthen our HSE culture and training.
In 2011, we restructured our environmental department Unless otherwise stated, data for 2011 in this section to place a dedicated specialist at each site and a group covers our Mining Division which includes the previous of environmental managers within each of our three Kazakhmys Copper and Gold businesses along with mining regions.
Our Group Environmental Department Kazakhmys Exploration and Kazakhmys Projects and will retain a smaller central team to provide guidance Power Division Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant and and support.
The central team will be combined with captive power plants supplying our mining operations.
our Group Health and Safety Department to create an This represents 97% of our total workforce and almost integrated HSE resource.
all of our Segmental EBITDA.
In 2010, the Kazakhmys Gold business was not considered sufciently material Policies and management systems and was excluded from the Corporate Responsibility All divisions have HSE policies which describe their report.
However, following the internal restructuring of commitments and responsibilities, based on the guiding the Group in 2011, this business is now combined in the principles set up by Group executive management.
All Kazakhmys Mining Division with the previous Kazakhmys sites have health, safety and environmental management Copper business and is therefore included in the systems in place.
corporate responsibility data for the first time.
Throughout 2011, we worked on implementing the Notes on previous years data: health and safety management plan introduced in t Mining Division data for previous years does not February, with a focus on hazard recognition and include the Gold business, Kazakhmys Exploration prevention.
The plan includes actions against 21 or Kazakhmys Projects.
safety priorities, including ventilation and isolation of electrical equipment.
t Data from the captive power plants were included as part of the former Copper Division in previous years, We also began to implement our environmental action and are reported as part of the Power Division plan, work which will extend into 2012.
The plan takes from 2011. into consideration the recommendations listed in our t We have not restated 2010 corporate responsibility 2010 Annual Report and Accounts from an audit data to reect the restructuring of the business.
Unless conducted by Golder Associates.
Actions in 2011 otherwise stated, corporate responsibility data for 2010 included the introduction of new environmental reects our previous organisational structure.
standards, installation of y-ash separators at captive power plants, reclamation of waste disposal sites, Stakeholder engagement construction of tailings dams, design and construction Our stakeholders are the many people and groups that of water treatment facilities, and repairs to pipelines and inuence or are affected by our actions.
Other measures within the plan relationships with our stakeholders helps us respond require a site redesign at significant investment, and so to their needs in ways that support our business goals.
will be implemented in the longer term.
Examples There are examples of our engagement with each include developing and implementing group and the related outcomes throughout the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
