42 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Corporate responsibility Building better futures BOARD OF DIRECTORS As a responsible employer, listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Management Executive Committee Exchange, we believe that the long-term future of the Company is best served CR Steering Committee by respecting the interests of all our stakeholders: employees, clients, EmployeesHSE Relationships Communities partners, shareholders, suppliers and the wider community.
Kentz aims to conduct its business in a socially the last three months of 2011 and going forward will responsible manner.
We believe that the long-term convene four times a year.
It reports quarterly to the % future of the Company is best served by respecting Management Executive Committee.
80 the interests of all our stakeholders and the wider Over 80% of employees community.
We actively seek opportunities to The CR steering committee identified four main surveyed felt that one improve our performance and to contribute to the areas of focus as follows: or more people had wellbeing of the communities in which we operate.
positively influenced their This is undertaken in the framework of Kentzs core Employees career atKentz.
values of Safety, Teamwork and Reputation.
We respect our employees and encourage their development and training.
We will promote equality During 2011, a project was undertaken to improve as differences in responsibilities permit and consider Kentzs policies and reporting in Corporate the interests of our employees including their Responsibility CR in order to direct Group welfare, health and safety.
We aim to empower our resources to areas that are deemed most important employees and recognise and reward individual to our employees.
contributions as well as teamwork.
Through effective communication and consultation with employees A Corporate Responsibility Survey was issued to a and trade representatives we ensure that their views, selection of Kentz employees around the world, opinions, suggestions and recommendations are obtaining employees opinions on the environment, considered openly and constructively.
Our ultimate communities, our people and relationships.
There aim is the happiness of our employees through their % was an excellent response to the survey and a Kentz worthwhile and satisfying employment in a 37 Corporate Responsibility steering committee was successful business.
37% viewed the family established in September 2011 to oversee the culture as being the development of CR going forward.
Adrian Griffin, a During 2011, Kentz employed an average of 14,000 most positive aspect member of our Management Executive Committee employees across the world including 64 different of working for the and Group Commercial Contracts and Risk Officer, nationalities.
Kentz has a policy of investing time and Company, with 25% was appointed to Chair the team, which comprises effort in the development of its people by supporting citing career progression James Cassin, Group QHSE Manager, Elizabeth them through constant appraisal, coaching and opportunities.
Rous, Group Head of Communications and Catrona training and by encouraging personal initiative.
It met once in business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 43 Images right: WaterAid Dieter Telemans During 2011, over 8,000 employees received on-site The Safety Observation Card System of Kentz training and development.
In South Africa, our SOCKS continued throughout 2011, which allows purpose-built training facilities at Chamdor in us to monitor and observe employees beliefs and Johannesburg, the Medupi Power Station Project attitudes and eliminate unsafe acts.
The programme and our office in Vanderbijlpark saw 174 trainees focuses on the behaviours our employees exhibit develop new skills to become welders, boilermakers on a day-to-day basis, in areas such as key points and electricians.
of communication, risk assessment, personal protective equipment PPE, working postures and 269 employees attended Skills Enhancement Courses proper use of tools and equipment.
During 2011, SECs and 17 bursaries were allocated to students over 1.6 million observations were made, with only in South Africa to study disciplines of engineering, 0.67% of them demonstrating unsafe acts.
quantity surveying and accountancy at university or college.
The average length of service in top 100 core Kentz has Environmental Management Systems management for 2011 was over 17 years.
in place that meet the requirements of ISO 14001.
During 2011, the average electricity usage per Health, Safety and Environment person across our global offices was 247KW and the It is the duty of all our employees to take all average paper consumption per person was 33kg, % reasonable steps to manage our operations so as to of which 7kg was recycled and 1kg was reused.
80 minimise our environmental impact and to promote We have set targets to reduce these consumption Over 80% of those best health and safety practice.
There were over 85,000 surveyed agreed environmental observations done on Kentz sites or strongly agreed We will set and follow high standards in operations, during 2011, resulting in zero occurrences of that Kentz is an quality and safety and have Environmental non-compliance.
environmentally Management Systems in place that meet the friendly company.
requirements of international standards ISO 9001, Kentz is committed to improving our environmental ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
We will continue to performance in the coming years and has set a promote responsible and sustainable operations in target to make all our offices carbon neutral by 2018 all of our global locations and review regularly our through a 5% reduction year on year on our 2012 business practices and performance to identify how carbon emissions.
we can improve our energy efficiency, water usage and carbon emissions.
We undertake to identify, Relationships assess and manage risks to the environment, We will conduct our business relationships with communicate effectively and regularly with all integrity and courtesy, and honour our contract stakeholders, and supply sufficient resources of commitments.
Our aim is to build long-term % time, personnel and finance to provide information, relationships with our clients, partners and suppliers 90 training and supervision to our workforce.
and utilise local companies and resources where However, 90% felt that feasible.
We are committed to trading fairly with all environmental issues are During 2011, Kentz completed over 52.5 million our employees, clients, partners and suppliers, and becoming a greater area man-hours across the Group, an increase of 22.1% commit the requisite level of resource to ensure we of focus in our industry from 2010, with a Total Recordable Incident Ratio adhere to the highest levels of health, safety and and the same percentage TRIR of 0.35.
Kentz senior management completed environmental practice.
agreed that a more visible over 94 safety leadership evaluations during 2011, environmental stance 46% of which were completed by the Management would improve Kentzs Executive Committee of Kentz.
44 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Corporate responsibility continued During 2011, the Gorgon LNG Telecommunications Communities Project in Western Australia achieved considerable Kentz strives to become an active member of the success in engaging Australian national and local communities in which we operate and supports a suppliers for the sourcing and integration of the number of charitable, social, recreational, wellbeing majority of major system packages, that make up the and cultural initiatives.
Kentz operates in 29 countries overall telecommunication and electronic systems.
and each community is unique.
We will listen to community needs and expectations and obtain a Given the highly technical nature of much of the wide range of views on our social and environmental equipment and the fact that some components had policies and performance.
We encourage our by necessity to be sourced overseas, Kentz placed employees to consider the needs of others and great emphasis on utilising local agents and involve themselves in public service in order to integrators where possible, in order to maximise continually develop a sustainable community for all.
Working with WaterAid As a consequence, 25 major packages were During 2011, Kentz formed a partnership with sourced through Australian manufacturers, the global charity, WaterAid, whose vision is a % integrators, agents or distributors.
This benefited world where everyone has access to safe water 50 local vendors by exposing them to international oil and sanitation.
Over 50% of those and gas industry practices and standards for the surveyed want to know first time, which can only serve to strengthen the WaterAid operates in over 27 countries including more about which technical capability of these companies.
India, Madagascar, Papua New Guinea and charities we are already Mozambique.
Working in some of the worlds supporting and almost poorest communities, WaterAid transforms lives 20% are keen to get by improving access to safe water, hygiene involved in our Group and sanitation.
WaterAid works with partner efforts in this area.
organisations to provide practical technology and sustainable solutions which are cost-effective and fit-for-purpose.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 45 Images: WaterAid Dieter Telemans Image Left: Children of the Puthur Village, Kanya Kumari District, Tamil Nadu, India Image Right: A school girl at her water source, Toamasina, Madagascar WaterAid and its partners work with local communities to build water points and latrines, % give simple engineering training and promote good 85 hygiene practices.
Working in schools can play Almost 85% of people a vital role in keeping children in education and agreed that Kentz should disseminating hygiene messages to the wider set a goal to contribute a community, thus reducing incidences of diarrhoea defined portion of caused by dirty water and poor sanitation.
attributable profits each year to charity.
After meeting with the WaterAid team and hearing about the fantastic work they do across the globe, Kentz decided to support WaterAid projects in Madagascar and India.
Kentz is currently working on the Ambatovy Nickel and Cobalt Mining Project in Madagascar and hires a large proportion of its Respondents viewed workforce from different regions of India.
the following charitable causes in this order of Read more about how Kentzs funding helped importance: WaterAid make a difference in these countries 1 Education during 2011 in the Kentzs 2011 Corporate 2 Disaster relief Responsibility report.
3 Medical 4 Community Kentz is proud to be aligned with WaterAid and 5 C ulture and sports its aspirations to make a sustainable difference to thousands of peoples lives every year by giving them access to basic services through simple engineering solutions.
We look forward to developing our involvement further in the coming year.
For more information go to: www.
