King sher plc Annual Report People 16 and Accounts 2010 11 Last year was notable for the focus we placed on our leadership Castorama France launched a new training scheme called population, creating a stronger sense of cross-Group unity and further Formacteur which features an online portal enabling employees to developing our leadership capabilities.
take responsibility for their own personal development.
By year-end 70% of employees had completed at least one training event using At the same time we continued to invest in training across all our retail the new system.
brands, maintaining an emphasis on giving our store employees the B&Q UK Building on the strong base of innovative, leading training expertise required to achieve high levels of customer engagement that B&Q has already developed, two new City & Guilds accredited and loyalty.
quali cations were launched during the year.
The first is a Diploma in Retail Skills focusing on selling eco products: the second is a Leading as One Team Diploma in Retail Management aimed at B&Qs supervisor population.
To maximise the added value from being an international retailer it is So far more than 21,000 City & Guilds quali cations of various types vital that our 80,000 employees can work as a single team, where ideas have been awarded to B&Q employees since the initiative began and experience ow freely, successful concepts can be shared and in 2009. talent can be placed where it makes the biggest difference.
Measurement of employee engagement We call this ambition One Team: we also recognise that our senior The Gallup Q12 survey, first adopted by B&Q UK in 2000, has become leadership group is central to us achieving it.
In the past year we our established tool for measuring employee engagement across the convened two highly innovative and successful conferences with our Group.
In May last year Castorama France opened out the survey to top 200 leaders, enabling us to collect their ideas for shaping our future all 12,500 of its employees, with 89.9% choosing to take part.
The meetings also saw the forging of stronger cross-Group survey produced a GrandMean the biggest indicator of engagement connections and networks, which are essential to making our One levels score of 3.70.
When the second survey was held in November Team aspirations a reality.
this gure rose to 3.87, representing the opinion of 94% of Castoramas employees.
These high participation rates are very encouraging for an Investing in our leadership capability employee population of this size.
During the year we launched our first King sher Leadership Programme, which every member of the One Team leadership group will have Elsewhere, B&Q UK recorded engagement levels that enabled it to completed by the end of 2011.
We see this initiative as the first step in qualify for the Gallup Great Workplace Award for the fifth successive developing a coherent learning and development offer at Group level, year, while King shers Q12 leadership population comprising 1,200 one that will complement the ongoing investments made in this area senior employees across the Group continued to demonstrate high by our various Group businesses, some examples of which include: levels of engagement.
During the year Castorama France created six new working groups Engaging our people for its Viva training programme, which focuses on some of the softer Gallup Q12 staff engagement survey leadership skills.
All members of the Castorama leadership team are out of 5 scheduled to participate in Viva.
4.23 4.19 3.95 B&Q UK has developed a leadership programme for all of its 3.75 senior managers.
This programme, called Leading the Way, aims to enhance managers skills, knowledge and capabilities so they are better placed to drive their own performance and that of their 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 teams.
B&Q has also put together a renewed cycle of management development to be implemented during the next three years, aimed at managers in stores and those who lead teams in its head of ce.
At Screw x, all Trade Counter managers began an extensive leadership development programme last year, which will continue throughout 2011.
It is designed to provide front line managers with the skills to get the best out of their store teams.
Apprenticeships Training to enhance the customer experience 72 year old Terry All our businesses are actively engaged in store staff training and see Robinson from Oxford it as key to helping our front-line employees provide the service our has recently quali ed customers need and expect.
The highlights in the past year included: with an Apprenticeship in Retailing from B&Q.
B&Q China training for store staff focused on product knowledge This is the second apprenticeship Terry has and selling skills, as the primary customer relationship continues to earned, having completed shift from supplier representatives to B&Q Chinas own staff.
the first almost 57 years Kotas roll-out of e-learning tools and completion of 530 coaching ago at the age of 15 as days given by internal product experts to new store staff and others a carpenter and joiner.
Terry said: I hope this shows people that age is no barrier to learning.
