Board of Directors Corporate Social Responsibility networks and provide a web interface to consumers on their Home Area Key achievements in 2011 Network in order to provide greater visibility and allow them to take direct No major environmental compliance issues at any Laird facility during 2011. control of their energy usage.
Our Cleveland and Schaumburg, USA facilities both achieved IMS certication to ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 standards.
Fourteen major Environment Laird facilities now hold active Integrated Management Systems IMS certications status.
RoHS Restriction of Lairds Shanghai EMI site won the Safety Production Advance Hazardous Substances Enterprise award from the Xinzhuang Industrial Zone Administration As part of our Restricted Substance Committee in March.
Management Plan in 2011 over 10,000 samples were tested for RoHS As part of our environmental strategy to target reductions in energy usage, restricted substances at our in-house our Shenzhen, China manufacturing facility adapted its processes to laboratories in China and the US.
To eliminate the usage of approximately 7,000 litres of diesel fuel per month date there have been no instances and in turn reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, with exhaust air from of major non-conformance with onsite air compressors now utilised to heat water.
respect to RoHS restricted substance compliance with our customers.
REACH Registration, Evaluation, Code of Conduct Authorisation and Restriction of As a member of the FTSE4Good Chemical substances index since 2004, we recognise Laird believes that high standards of We continue to address eectively the need to balance our social business ethics are critical in todays customer enquiries for REACH and environmental impacts in a business world.
We place high priority compliance data for our products and manner that best serves the needs on compliance with all legislative develop our supply chain to ensure of all our stakeholders, including and regulatory requirements, and we continue to meet all REACH legal investors, employees, customers, on the maintenance of high ethical compliance obligations and supply suppliers and local communities.
standards, within each of the products into the EU without disruption.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria territories and jurisdictions in which are updated on a regular basis and we conduct our business.
Our Global Health, Safety and continuous improvement is required Code of Conduct, which is available Environmental Policy to merit ongoing inclusion in the on our website and reviewed annually, We are committed to pursuing index.
The criteria are also regularly incorporates policies and guidelines high standards of environmental assessed by EIRIS, an independent relating to human rights, equal performance and maintain a research organisation.
opportunity, ethics, compliance, proactive communications strategy anti-harassment, conicts of interest amongst all employees to stimulate and regulatory compliance.
continuous improvement and Product Stewardship promote and develop good health, Our global Ethics Hotline provides a safety and environmental practices.
condential way for employees to raise We pursue  concerns about inappropriate behaviour.
design and manufacturing practices, Laird has fourteen facilities The hotline utilises an independent through various strategies including accredited to Integrated telephone and internet provider, maximising resource productivity and Management Systems certication oering support in local languages minimising energy intensity.
status to ISO 14001 OHSAS and has an internal escalation and 18001 standards.
All of these resolution process driven by the Risk A recent product-based initiative is facilities successfully completed Management Committee.
the development of a Smart Energy re-certication or surveillance solution for in-home monitoring of audits during the year.
This is in energy usage in North America.
The addition to the majority of our device is designed to connect to utility main manufacturing facilities being 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certied.
During the year we held global There were no work-related fatalities IMS certication activities for the monthly site meetings and Town Hall in 2011.
The total number of reportable Wireless Automation and Control meetings led by the executive team.
accidents decreased 17% in 2011 and Solutions facilities acquired in late Laird conducted a global employee the reportable accident rate decreased 2010 are currently scheduled to satisfaction survey with an action plan from 0.14 to 0.13 per 100 employees commence in early 2013. agreed to address the issues raised.
annualised, on an approximate 13% The survey had a 75% participation decrease in total hours worked.
Minor Workplace rate and improvement was recorded accident rates reported increased across 61% of the questions.
by 9% to 0.24 per 100 employees Human Rights annualised due primarily to improved The International Labour Organisation Total spend on employee training in levels of awareness in the Asia Pacic has identied eight Core Conventions 2011 was 593,146 2010, 774,194 region for the reporting of basic first as being fundamental to the rights and annualised employee turnover aid cases.
While expressed its support for the Core we have seen a slight increase in Environmental KPIs Conventions, and we have stated our turnover rates in Europe and North Our environmental strategy commitment to the principles within America due to economic recovery, targets reductions in energy usage, these conventions.
the most significant factor in the greenhouse gas emissions and waste increase has been a shortage of skilled sent to landll, sharing successful talent and a substantial increase in ideas and best practice wherever Laird is committed to ensuring that local demand in Asia.
appropriate across all plants globally.
its supply base complies with the EICC Code of Conduct, a code Continuous Improvement of best practice implemented We continued to see gains in by some of the worlds major To demonstrate our commitment our manufacturing processes, electronics brands and their to target continuous improvement product quality and customer suppliers.
Laird has established in energy resource use, we satisfaction ratings, alongside cost processes and practices in place participate in the annual reductions, through our Six Sigma and regularly audits and reviews Information Request by the CIP Continuous Improvement these to ensure its operations are Carbon Disclosure Project, Process programme during 2011, using Best in Class processes.
We an independent non-profit which delivered approximately $13 are also audited several times a organisation which acts as an million in savings by the end of the year by a number of customers.
A major focus of the 2011 CIP and corporations on all climate programme was Supplier Quality change related issues and provides Improvement, involving a formal primary climate change data from Employee Development three phase plan which reorganised the worlds largest corporations and Communication the worldwide supplier development to the global marketplace.
Laird recognises that the success organisation and updated the of the business relies on the skill processes, procedures, systems and dedication of its employees.
and approach to performance Consultation is encouraged at improvement.
Environmental indicators for 2011 local level and performance and reect continued market driven development reviews reinforce the link Health and Safety Management reduction in operations with a low between business goals, an employees Worldwide employee headcount for energy and carbon prole such contribution and his her remuneration.
our operations decreased from 12,577 as handset assembly but strong A leadership assessment tool has been at the end of 2010, to 9,912 at the demand-driven growth in higher implemented for relevant appointed end of 2011.
The average number of impact operations.
14 Set against this context, Lairds Community-based activities in CO2 emissions per 1m of sales which our employees and facilities increased by 2% to 77 tonnes, while participated during the year include: power consumption increased sponsored walks and holiday gift 4% to 197,043 KwH per 1m of programmes, donation of funds sales.
Reductions were achieved to tornado relief eorts in Joplin, in 2011 for waste to landll relative Missouri, USA and to earthquake to sales, which decreased 7% to relief eorts in Japan, local nature 1.17 tonnes total waste to landll reserve conservancy eorts and the per 1m of sales.
In 2011, as part support of educational projects.
of our environmental strategy, we set a greenhouse gas emissions AVERAGE EMPLOYEE reduction target of 5% in total metric HEADCOUNT tonnes CO2 relative to total hours 16,000 worked for our nine largest sites.
12,000 Although we did not meet this target, total CO2 emissions in 2011 were 8,000 approximately 3% below 2010 levels.
4,000 The reduction target of 5% in total metric tonnes CO2 relative to total 0 hours worked will be applied across 2010 2011 our smaller sites in 2012.
Lairds Health, Safety and REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS Environmental policy, Global PER 100 EMPLOYEES Code of Conduct and Equal ANNUALISED Employment and Human Rights 0.2 policy are available online at www.
com laird csr 0.1 Community 0 2010 2011 Charitable Donations and Community Aairs The well-being of the communities in which we operate is important to our long term development and success.
The Chief Human Resources Ocer is responsible for all community matters.
During the year Laird donated 2,288 to UK charities 2010, 5,460 and 22,769 to charities worldwide.
