OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility At Lamprell, we recognise the value of fulfilling our Charity responsibilities as a corporate citizen, believing that by doing Each year we donate a cheque to a worthy establishment, with so we will bring benefits to all our stakeholders.
Having been the recipients this year being Medcins Sans Frontiers MSF.
based in Dubai since 1977, the Company is rooted in a community within which it has worked for over 30 years and it People has both benefited from, and been a contributor to, that Attracting, developing and retaining talented staff is a major communitys development during that period.
As a result of challenge for the oil and gas industry and at Lamprell we are both this history and the international nature of our business, fortunate to have high quality people across the whole range of we believe we are fortunate to have a local business with a our services.
It is therefore vital for our continued success that genuinely global perspective, and a rich variety of cultures and we encourage our staffs personal development and career backgrounds from which to draw expertise and experience.
progression, and treat our people with respect, maturity and openness.
We also invest significantly in building their skill sets.
Our principles We are confident that this approach is the one most likely to Our commitment to act as a responsible corporate player has enable us to achieve our business objectives by providing long been reflected throughout the entire organisation, and the quality, continuity and growth.
Our policy is to ensure equal Group has a formalised set of policies that state the principles opportunity in career development, promotion, training and by which we seek to manage our operational activities, work reward for all of our employees.
We aim to ensure that all our with our staff and host communities, and minimise our impact employees understand our business goals and our business on the environment.
Our business, the provision of principles through ongoing communications programmes.
With construction services to the oil and gas and renewables a diverse range of nationalities working within the group, we industry, requires the highest standards of engineering skill and also respect and recognise the value of different cultures.
Health, Safety and Environment awareness.
Our fundamental principle is to carry out these activities in a way that delivers the Trade staff accommodation best possible product to our customers whilst minimising risks Due to the rising cost and shortage of residential and maximising rewards to our wider stakeholders.
accommodation in the UAE, and to comply with local laws, Accordingly, when we make all our investment and operational Lamprell decided to provide purpose built community decisions, we take account of the social and environmental accommodation for its core trade workforce.
This impacts that they may have, and minimising these is a central accommodation provides a secure and clean environment for part of our decision-making process.
These facilities provide all amenities including company our aim is to ensure that our reporting meets all the an in-house laundry service, restaurants, cinema, recreational requisite levels of scrutiny for a business of our size and areas equipment, communal rooms with full access to internet, of activity.
Maintaining our reputation by aligning our satellite TV and a medical centre.
Lamprell provides transport commercial goals with our ethical standards is an essential between the accommodation facilities and its workplaces with part of achieving this aim.
additional scheduled transport provided for airport and shopping trips etc.
Social initiatives In 2011, we continued to work closely with local communities, Medical and life insurance business partners and regulatory authorities to make a positive In addition to the in-house medical team, Lamprell provides difference within the localities where we operate.
In particular, private medical cover and life insurance for its workforce Lamprell is aware of the cultural mix of our employees with enabling them to take advantage of locally available high quality some 80% originating from India.
Don Bosco Snehalaya is a medical facilities, whilst giving peace of mind to family project focused on the street children and youth, living in the dependants.
With Lamprells support, the basic objective of Snehalaya is to provide shelter to the young living on the Health, safety, environment and security summary railway platforms and in the streets, and other vulnerable HSES children who are in need of care and protection.
Snehalaya Given the nature and demands of our business, ensuring a provides food, clothes, medicines, recreational facilities, high level of performance in health, safety, environment and counseling, job placement, contact with their families, and security is absolutely essential, and Lamprell has a strong track training in trades according to their capacities, and individual record in these areas.
We are very conscious though that there circumstances.
They are given opportunities to interact with is no room for complacency in HSES and we seek to the public, to express their potential and their talents.
This continually improve our performance.
helps them to develop their self confidence and the awareness that they too can contribute something to society.
Ultimately, Health and safety Snehalaya aims at enabling these street children to return to a Internal measures for health and safety performance are very decent life within mainstream society.
important to ensure focus on this area of our business.
Our objective for 2011 was to maintain and improve the developed 52 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility continued safety culture within the organisation, with all staff Waste management policy encouraged to report any activities they perceive as not All businesses affect the environment through the use of conforming to best practice through the incentive linked resources and discharge of waste products.
Our Waste in-house Safety Observation Audit Programme, so that any Management Policy is therefore consistent with our broader areas of oversight can be rectified and brought up to the Environmental Policy, which includes a stated commitment to highest possible standard as quickly as possible.
minimise the environmental impacts of our operations and prevent pollution.
Our aim is to limit our discharge of waste A contributory factor again this year was the continued use of material wherever we can and the policy lays out how we seek the centralised reporting system for leading indicators under a to achieve this goal.
This ratio facilitates the analysis of First Aid Cases, Medical Treatment Cases and Security Restricted Work Cases as well as Lost Time Incidents LTI During 2011, Lamprell maintained a high level of internal and and allows management to identify trends and take the external security controls of its assets on behalf of all appropriate action.
As a result of this approach, we have stakeholders.
These controls were in the form of security maintained a strong track record in the area of safety.
Lamprell procedures, a corporate wide security access system and has established a safety record which is exceptional for the oil continued physical security presence.
In line with our standardise and centralise programme, the Lamprell Group of companies Quality achieved an overall performance LTI Frequency Rate of 0.27.
Lamprell aims to achieve maximum customer satisfaction and However, whilst our own measurement of our safety quality of product.
In the pursuit of this objective the Company performance is essential, we also recognise the importance of will comply with all national and international standards and external analysis of our methods and have achieved relevant requirements with respect to quality assurance.
Lamprell will accreditation by third parties of our capabilities.
In 2011 also strive to optimise resources and reduce wastage in the Lamprell maintained the accreditation with the management development of our facilities and training of personnel.
Whilst system certificate ISO 14001: 2004 and the updated aiming to meet these objectives the Company ensures cost Occupational, Health and Safety Assessment Series, OHSAS effective jobs and services, and delivery on time.
Lamprell 18001: 2007. meets these objectives by understanding customer requirements, working together with our customers to meet Environment those requirements, understanding our processes well and Across all our activities we seek to minimise the mark we leave monitoring and measuring our activities.
Ultimately the on the sites at which we work.
A good example is at Hamriyah Company strives continually to improve the Quality where, as we expand our existing facility, we are seeking ways Management Systems and operations.
to minimise our impact on the local environment and increase our energy efficiency and recycling capability.
By delivering the best possible product to our customers and utilising the most up to date technologies, we also have a direct impact on the environmental performance of the rigs we refurbish by improving their systems and ensuring they conform to all relevant international legislation.
Our policy is to strive to achieve continual improvement in environmental performance.
We are committed to preventing pollution and reducing the overall impact of our operations on the environment.
In addition, we maintain an internal management structure for the management of environmental issues which includes clearly defined responsibilities for environmental management capable of delivering this policy commitment.
At all times Lamprell aims to comply with, and where possible exceed, applicable legal and other requirements relating to the organisation.
We are also committed to monitoring and reporting of our environmental performance, setting objectives and targets for improvement and at all times provide appropriate training and awareness programmes for our staff.
