Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Sustainability We are working with our clients to deliver a sustainable future.
The social and environmental benefits of the services we deliver are wide-ranging.
We are incredibly proud of the work we opportunities in sustainable supply chains.
monitor how much carbon is have delivered for the Police National Throughout the year, we have continued absorbed and stored by forestry and other vegetation in a given area.
Database PND in the UK, where we winning new work and executing play a role in helping protect the most successfully with existing clients: The data collation and analysis is now vulnerable people in society.
Logica is our work with Low Carbon London instantaneous, replacing the slow and helping the PND to provide a single view continues to support the development costly field surveys that are traditionally of data held in police intelligence, custody, of the UKs smart grid required.
From carbon offsetting to crime, child and domestic abuse systems our Instant Energy service now land use planning and supply chain across the whole of the UK.
It will not supports more than 60% of smart sustainability, the potential for replace local police systems but it will meters in the UK organisations, NGOs and allow all forces to see and share our online travel planner, which helps governments is immense.
information that until now has only been consumers identify lower carbon travel available within individual force boundaries alternatives, has been implemented While the sustainability practice see our case study on page 5 or online.
in 28 cities across Finland and the US represents only a small percentage of our In 2011 we were selected by the World our ongoing work with EDP in revenue, the pipeline continues to grow as Health Organization WHO to support renewables has led us to win the sustainability challenges and the solutions the African Network for Drugs and Technology Innovation of the Year we generate drive real opportunities with Diagnostics Innovation ANDI by building Award for Excellence in Renewable clients across our sectors.
a collaboration platform for scientists, Energy at the Renewable Energy ultimately contributing to the fight against World conference and delivers The greatest potential for disease in communities across the African renewable energy to seven countries us to create positive social across the globe.
Such projects are inspiring and environmental change for the project team delivering them, is through the services we and make all our people proud to work We also continued to bring more for Logica.
We work deliver to our clients.
Our Sustainability Business Consulting collaboratively with our clients to find Andy Green practice provides a dedicated focus on innovative answers to their business CEO helping our clients deliver a sustainable problems.
A key component of our future today.
Our solutions drive energy success is our ecosystem-driven approach efficiency, better manage sustainability and strong partnerships with both public risks, enhance reputation, comply with and private sector organisations.
new regulation and generate new our award winning IBOR Dutch Intergraal Beheer Publieke Ruimte, revenues by offering more sustainable products and services.
infrastructure solution, developed in In a challenging economic climate, partnership with Microsoft, is designed we provide strategic insight and solutions to help reduce energy costs and carbon that help our clients to grow commercially, emissions generated by street lighting, as well as bringing environmental and while simultaneously creating new ways social benefits.
to help reduce crime and support the Our sustainability offerings build on our work of the emergency services launched in 2011, our L. U. C. I. D. decades of experience in the energy and utilities and transport industries.
They Land Use Carbon Intelligence Service range from creating smart utilities and service transforms the way the effective energy management solutions, impact of land use change on carbon to developing innovative, sustainable emissions is measured.
It uses satellite transport systems and unlocking new data to allow users to quantify and 20 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Responsibility This year has seen Corporate Responsibility CR become more deeply engrained in our business.
Our CR programme continues to support our overall business strategy.
We focus on deepening client relations and meeting their expectations on our social and environmental performance, working to provide better returns to our shareholders through being more competitive, reinforcing our values and maintaining high levels of integrity within our Company culture.
Clients are increasingly interested in Our values of being committed, innovative Reduction Roadmap in 2011 identifying how theirexisting and potential suppliers and open require a connected and where we can expect to save cost are performing.
We are working andlong-term carbon reduction Each year we see an increase in the to better reflect the diversity of our clients commitments.
Our KPI in this area can number of questions relating to CR in in our workforce.
More diverse talent be found on page 26. our client bids.
And to meet their growing means we have a better range of skills We have taken further steps to mature expectations, we were pleased to achieve and capabilities to offer our clients.
It also the reporting process for our environment two significant milestones in 2011: we helps us innovate and deliver multi-region programme.
As well as rolling out a new entered the Dow Jones Sustainability and multi-cultural client services in an global tool, we have integrated our integrated and mutually supportive way.
environmental and financial reporting Index for the first time and were recognised as the leading IT services Our people want to make a difference processes and our local Finance teams company globally for combined in the communities in which we all live have now become accountable for the disclosure and performance in the and work.
Volunteering is a key part of quality of our environmental data.
our commitment to our communities.
See our full CR report at Our programme aims to help our people to: www.
com sustainability develop new skills 22% build stronger team dynamics of Logicas Board are women build deeper relationships with our clients.
c. 12% Through 2011, we have also been of Logicas senior managers are women working to integrate skills development Our CR programme has been successful opportunities through volunteering in our in deepening client relations, such as our learning and development programmes.
partnership with the Swedish Financial In India, for example, Logica has built a Coalition to help mitigate internet child classroom in a local school, equipped pornography.
We are also sharing our it with computers and provided lessons approach to disability and gender diversity staffed by Logica volunteers.
As well as Getting about the greener way with clients in France through a dedicated providing local school children with an network.
In Portugal we have contributed education in Information Communication As a people business, commuting and to one of the biggest CR events the Technology, it helps our people develop business travel makes up two thirds of country has staged, EDPs Parte fide Nos: soft skills such as leadership, presentation our companys carbon emissions.
83% A part of us, involving 1,500 volunteers and facilitation.
of our people believe its important that providing a makeover to 12 hospitals Our environmental compliance and Logica takes an active role in reducing buildings and grounds.
reporting continued to lead most of our its own impact and that of its clients, For our business to succeed, our clients peers and enables us to deliver more on the environment.
We earn their trust through competitive overheads.
To drive better maintaining high levels of integrity within returns to our shareholders, we have See and hear more online: our culture.
We aim to increase the number focused on reducing energy consumption annualreport.
com our-stories of our people completing our ethics and travel where possible.
We see training from the 65% reported at the potential to create more cost savings for end of 2011 to 95% at end March 2012. the business and established a Carbon Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 21 Business Review
