Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Our people In 2011 we continued to see a high level of commitment from the more than 41,000 people we employed.
During the year, we attracted 6,500 newtalented individuals to Logica both onshore and in our offshore centres in India, the Philippines and Morocco.
India grew by 22% and we employed 5,000 there at the end of 2011.
We successfully implemented our plans to commitment to the Logica values while we aim to offer our people increase our offshore blend and to balance strengthening the Logica brand: continual learning and development our junior and more experienced people we continued to leverage the latest opportunities, helping them to stay in the business.
But we failed to improve technologies to allow our people to in touch with the latest industry utilisation in key markets like the Benelux work flexibly.
In the UK, our people knowledge and innovation.
We do and Sweden in a tougher economic have smart worked since 2008.
This this through a mixture of formal training climate, and to redeploy resource onshore practice is being or will berolled out and exposure to opportunities to to the Netherlands, France, Finland, develop new client solutions.
The in Infrastructure Management in places like Sweden and the UK as we moved Germany, Swedenand the US.
As well Logica University continues to provide more work offshore sadly forcing us to as helping our people achieve a better global e-learning and classroom-based announce plans to restructure 1,300 jobs.
work-life balance, it has resulted in courses to our people across the While there will continue to be an ongoing lower sickness and absence rates, and Group.
30,000 peopleundertook level of restructuring needed in our we have better business continuity in courses with the University in 2011. business, we aim to use rigorous extreme weather conditions or during Over 180,000 training hours were performance management and continued public transport strikes.
Ethics, sustainability, investment in training and developing our us drive down the carbon emissions information security training and people to minimise future restructuring.
associated with peoples daily commute technical skills around ITIL v3 and This will bring real benefits to people, today still the most significant PRINCE 2 were most in demand clients and shareholders.
proportion of our carbon footprint Our people value the investment we in line with our value of being open, put into fostering innovation and investing we aim to communicate regularly with in thought leadership, technology skills our people.
Andy Green, CEO, does and commercial acumen.
This investment this through a personal blog, accessible allows them to deliver the best results for globally via our intranet.
It creates an environment that views from Andy and the Executive enables them to flourish.
The essence of Committeeon principal internal and external issues affecting us.
It also our Employee Value Proposition is to encourage our people to shape the future encourages comment and discussion for our clients and ourselves.
through an open Tell Andy response Our people strategy is aimed at making facility, which is widely used.
We also Smart business, smart working this commitment a reality.
It will mitigate hold regular global webstreams.
We operational risks around attrition and have had a large number of our people In our 2011 People Survey, we saw a 9% employee engagement and satisfaction participating in these.
increase in our people satisfaction with and will help us recruit.
We attribute at Developing exceptional people Our people management and least part of this improvement to our investments are broadly grouped into is about continually targeting the smart working policy allowing our four areas: development we offer to ensure it is people to work from client sites, Logica aligned to the skills our people need offices, at home or on the move.
Shaping the future for their growth, as well as the needs is about engaging with our people, making of clients and Logica overall.
This spans See and hear more online: sure they understand the role they play in all levels of Logica: annualreport.
com our-stories our strategy andworking with our clients and focusing their passion and 08 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 in 2011 we launched our Enable piloted an early version of this.
This Brilliant Partners programme which will provide our people with clarity on aimed to develop our top 250 leaders what is expected of them and how to across Logica, as well as strengthen develop their capabilities to progress our succession plans.
programme will be undertaken by all Partners within a three-year timeframe.
Enabling brilliant performance The programme will also help our is about delivering a work environment Partner population meet their individual that drives, enables and recognises management commitments.
In addition, individual and teamsperformance.
Our One Young Logica we have strengthened leadership, reward system aims to be competitive and hiring a number of industry leaders affordable, and to motivate staff to achieve Investment in developing exceptional across the business.
This new intake key business objectives: people is not just for Logicas senior along with the impact of the Enable our variable pay focuses attention on people we also want to harness the Brilliant Partner programme was put the key business objectiveswith bonus potential of our youngest talent.
This in placeto inspire our people and drive schemes including some of the most helps them to continue growing and stronger performance and gain greater important KPIs as outlined on page 70. creates positive change inside Logica.
buy-in to our strategic aims and vision We reward our people based on to harness the potential of our business performance and their youngest talent in the organisation, individual contribution to ensure each See and hear more online: we sent five graduates from across of them is focused on achieving results.
com our-stories the business to the One Young World Our most senior managers participate global conference.
Hosted in in an executive bonus plan which Switzerland, 1,200 youngbusiness rewards individuals based on their leaders from 170 countries were contribution to the performance of brought together to create change at their own business and that of the a global level around issues such as the Group against core measures aligned role of business in society, transparency to the overall business plan.
Variable in business and government, the compensation paid in 2011 was limited impact of climate change, global due to a disappointing performance health and hunger relief.
Our delegates at Group level.
Recognising our have returned with renewed energy international diversity, we also have and determination to leverage our local plans in some of our businesses resources and expertise to make a in 2011 we continued to run our positive difference seeour case Diamond Awards programme to study on this page and online.
formally recognise members of our team from anywhere in the business Right people, right skills, right places who we believe have made a real is about ensuring we manage resourcing difference.
This is a key catalyst to in a consistent way across Logica to creating an environment and culture attract, grow and retain the right people of success.
Almost 6,000 Diamond with the right skills, capabilities and Awards have been awarded totalling experience to deliver value to clients: in excess of 1.2 million, to both our three-year resourcing strategy recognise and reward excellence.
starts from what we need to deliver to clients and from where.
It helps us These actions will ensure that we make important business decisions continue to retain the talented people about careers for our people.
alsodefines the onshore offshore mix and looks carefully at utilisation of skills within the business a common global Logica career model will help us attract, grow and retain talent.
We have recently successfully Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 09 Business Review
