Performance Corporate Social responsibility We actively encourage employees to take up further education opportunities and are currently supporting employees undertaking 50 types of further and higher education.
our people and our responsibilities our people Our philosophy is that we should act in ways that ensure our employees We employ about 13,000 people, offering local job opportunities are proud to say who they work for, our suppliers are keen to do throughout England and Wales.
In addition our lessees, tenants and business with us, and our customers choose Marstons pubs and beers Retail Agreement operators also employ significant numbers of people for their value, quality and reputation.
Many of our staff work on a flexible part-time basis to suit their personal circumstances offering excellent and growing opportunities for students, people seeking to work around child caring The underlying principle that guides delivery of this philosophy responsibilities and people returning to the work environment after a is that we should always aim to be fiT.
three fundamental behaviours that are now well embedded throughout the business: zz Circa 51% of our entire workforce is female.
fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted within the Marstons Group should be both equitable and reasonable.
It zz More than half of our workforce work flexible hours many of should not result in one particular group of stakeholders gaining whom do so to fit work around other commitments and a an unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
quarter of the workforce typically work less than 16 hours per week.
integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it zz Our youngest employee is 16 and our oldest employee cannot be delivered or circumstances change so that an is 97. alternative course of action is appropriate this should be clearly zz 42% of our pub managers are female and represent 45% of explained.
transparency Wherever there is the freedom to do so, the Group should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of our employees and the wider community.
Encouraging all of our employees to take advantage of our training and development opportunities is a fundamental part of our strategy for success.
For pub based staff who wish to progress through the The move from three to two trading divisions on 2 October 2011 offers business, many of whom have not necessarily achieved their full an ideal opportunity to review and enhance these statements over the potential through the school system, we offer comprehensive catering coming months so that they evolve into a full and clearly understood and front of house programmes.
These are designed to increase the Code of Ethics.
skills and experience of individuals who may ultimately go on to manage To oversee our approach to CSR, the Group has an Environmental & one of our pubs or move into a range of Head Office roles whilst Corporate Social Responsibility E&CSR Committee chaired by Stephen achieving nationally recognised qualifications at the same time.
Oliver, Managing Director of Marstons Beer and Pub Company.
The We are an Accredited Training Centre for both the Chartered Committee has day-to-day responsibility for the implementation of CSR Management Institute CMI and the British Institute of Innkeeping BII policies within the Group and reports to the Board.
A separate and run programmes that offer a wide range of supervisory, managerial Environment Report is available at www.
We actively encourage employees to take up further education opportunities and are currently supporting employees undertaking 50 types of further and higher education.
We offer graduate training scheme opportunities and are particularly proud of our industry leading apprenticeship programme designed to attract very high quality sixth form students who wish to undertake professional training without incurring the student debt burden associated with full-time higher education.
Marstons seeks to operate in a transparent manner where its people are concerned and this is supported by a full Equal Opportunities policy and Whistle blowing policy, both of which can be found at www.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS Stock Exchange Code: MARS 21 21 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Section 2: Performance Business review CONTINuED Corporate Social responsibility CONTINuED Community involvement and localness are at the core of our business and we play a positive part in our local communities... supporting a huge range of community and charitable events.
zz Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity Fund, which the Company supports by match funding the employee contributions.
In the last 12 months the fund has donated over 13,000 to a range of local good causes nominated by our staff.
zz Marstons Inns and Taverns MIT also runs a Charitable Trust funded equally by the Company and employee contributions and in the last year has made awards of 16,000 to help support charitable zz We first achieved the Investors In People award in 1995 and activities run in our MIT pubs.
have been continuously accredited since that date.
zz The Company has made charitable donations of 13,497 during the zz Our retail staff have undertaken 28,000 online induction, year 2010: 193,236. customer service and responsible retailing training courses this year.
health and safety zz This year 2,250 Keyholder and kitchen training programmes The health and safety of our employees, customers and the general have been completed.
public is treated with the utmost importance.
Information on accident rates, compliance and audit scores for all areas of the business is zz We have 133 ex-Keyholder trainees who are now fully reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
A description of our health fledged deputy managers and a further 24 have made the and safety systems is available at www.
co. uk Responsibility next step to taking overall responsibility for managing one of HealthAndSafety.
There is also a link there to our Health and Safety our pubs.
zz Over the last three years 187 employees have completed CMI or BII accredited training programmes.
Day-to-day responsibility for health and safety in the workplace is zz We are currently the only company accredited to run the delegated to operational managers best placed to monitor and control BIIs new Multi-Site Retailer Programme via our own internal safety.
This is supported by individual site health and safety committees People Development team.
responsible for reviewing safety controls, monitoring accident rates and zz We received 115 applications per position for our last implementing improvements.
We also have dedicated professionals Graduate Training scheme entry, 66% higher than the responsible for monitoring compliance to Marstons policies and relevant national average for the year Source: Association of legislation.
The Group Health and Safety Manager oversees the operation of controls within our pub division and monitors compliance across the Group.
Our newly appointed Supply Chain Health and Safety Manager is responsible for the operation of our health and safety systems and Community commitment compliance to job safety instructions for our Production and Distribution Community involvement and localness are at the very core of our teams.
This new appointment reflects the priority given to tackling any business and strategy.
Where appropriate we source locally, we recruit risks to the safety of our employees especially where the nature of their locally and we seek to be our customers local choice.
We play a work is manually demanding.
positive part in our local communities, running open days at our breweries and supporting a huge range of community and charitable An additional investment has been made this year in an incident events both through our brewing sites and our pubs.
recording and investigation application for our Production and Distribution sites.
This online platform will give management greater We were delighted when Jennings Brewery was recognised in the oversight of the emerging trends in the types of incidents occurring, industrys Publican Awards 2010 for its tireless community support, allow better tracking of audit scores for our breweries and depots and raising the single biggest donation to the Cumbrian Flood Relief Fund of assessment of corrective actions taken.
The good work continues and Jennings Brewery has now been nominated as a finalist in the CN Group Business Awards Our managed pubs are subject to a bi-annual external audit of hygiene, Community Involvement category.
The results of those audits directly impact upon the evaluation of our pub managers performance.
The safe operation of our zz Charitable involvement starts at the very top at Marstons and this pubs is built upon safety training, documented safety instructions, safe year Chief Executive Officer Ralph Findlay helped to raise 40,000 design and engineering, and established routines of safety inspection.
for a range of good causes by cycling the 103 miles between New recruits, as well as seasoned managers, are trained from the Wolverhampton and Aberdyfi on the coast of Snowdonia.
outset of their employment, and continually refreshed thereafter, to 22 22 Marston Marstons PLC s PLC Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 w www ww.
o. u ukk 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Performance ensure that a high degree of awareness of safety and alertness to danger is sustained.
responsibility Deal pledges The operators of our tenanted and leased pubs, including those on zz Alcohol labelling.
Retail Agreements, are primarily responsible themselves for the health zz Alcohol unit awareness.
and safety of their employees and customers.
We do provide support zz Tackling under-age alcohol sales.
and documentation on creating a health and safety policy, assessing zz Support for the Drinkaware Trust.
risk in the workplace and the threat of fire.
We also provide support for our tenants and lessees to help them fulfil their legal obligations zz Advertising and marketing of alcohol.
particularly in respect of equipment inspections and fire risk zz Community support to tackle alcohol harm.
Both our managed pubs and tenanted and leased estate are supported zz Chronic Conditions Guide.
by customer service teams and dedicated surveyors who can respond quickly to any property defects that may cause a threat to safety.
responsible retailing healthy eating The Group is a long-standing member of the British Beer and Pub Food represents a significant area of growth for Marstons, particularly in Association BBPA, and Marstons continues to be a signatory to the MIT.
A continuing part of our strategy is offering healthier and more Portman Group Code which promotes responsible attitudes towards sustainable food choices without compromising quality or value for the drinking alcohol.
Marstons also continues to support both Drinkaware customer.
and the industrys own long term multi-million pound alcohol awareness campaign for smarter drinking Why let good times go bad?.
We engage actively within the industry and with Government to meet the We promote food sustainability in a number of different ways, objective of responsible retailing.
such as: We have made a significant investment in e-learning tools which all MIT zz In 2010 11 we sold 349 tonnes of sustainably sourced fish, pub staff must complete.
A core part of our investment in e-learning is reducing the quantity of haddock and cod we use by 70% the identification of potential under-age drinkers.
We also run similar to allow these endangered stocks to replenish.
training to ensure tenants, lessees and Retail Agreement operators are zz We use Prep High Performance cooking oil which supports aware of their responsibilities in this area.
the production of sustainable palm oil via the Green Palm Marstons actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative in both its trading programme.
managed and leased pub estate and maintains close links with licensing zz We source 4,500 tonnes of chips from a responsible and other enforcement bodies to help ensure that our pubs operate in a supplier who uses the potato remnants for animal feed, responsible and considerate manner.
Managed pubs monitor the use of fertiliser and renewable energy.
Challenge 21 via the till system, recording each time service is refused.
In addition, we also operate our own test purchase programme to further reinforce the compliance message.
We are committed to offering customers healthier meals, for example: zz In January 2011 MIT launched a range of calorie counted dishes with Challenge 21 less than 500 calories per meal.
To date we have served over This year nearly 250,000 refusals to serve were recorded, mostly 175,000 of these meals.
for failure to provide acceptable evidence of age or not being fit zz Our childrens menu won an award for its health and nutritional to consume alcohol.
Whilst this only affects about 0.25% of total content at the Menu Innovation & Development Awards during the transactions it is a clear demonstration of our commitment to year.
operate in a responsible and consistent manner.
zz Marstons has signed up to two of the food pledges in the Governments Responsibility Deal.
zz As part of our salt reduction commitment to ensure compliance with Where Pubwatch and Best Bar None initiatives are in place we expect 2012 salt targets, we have removed 1.5 tonnes of salt from the food our pub managers to play an active part in these arrangements, and we serve to our customers.
none of our pubs operate a 24 hour licence.
We have established zz Hydrogenated vegetable oils have been removed from all of our operating procedures and promotion policies within those pubs we products.
manage to ensure that they comply with the Mandatory Code of zz Where vegetables are an accompaniment to a main meal at an MIT Practice relating to the retailing and promotion of alcohol that came into pub they provide two portions of an adults 5 a day requirement.
force in 2010. zz We do not add salt to chips and we grill rather than fry our sausages.
A practical demonstration of this commitment is Marstons decision to zz All our MIT meals are free from genetically modified ingredients and sign up to many of the pledges that form part of the Governments new monosodium glutamate.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS Stock Exchange Code: MARS 23 23 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Section 2: Performance Business review CONTINuED Corporate Social responsibility CONTINuED food safety and supply environment In 2011 we spent 53 million on purchasing food 2010: 45 million, Marstons remains committed to reducing all the environmental impacts sourcing over 800 lines from more than 120 suppliers.
We are of its activities including the use of raw materials, energy, emissions and determined to ensure that the goods we buy are produced ethically, and the disposal of waste.
are socially and environmentally sustainable.
Detailed information is provided in our annual Environment Report To maintain consistently high standards of food quality and hygiene, all available at www.
of our suppliers are either British Retail Consortium approved, complete a self audit or are audited by an independent food hygiene company.
As part of this process, suppliers must be able to demonstrate full Key environment Data traceability of all products supplied to all Marstons managed pubs.
All of unit 2011 2010 the suppliers audited this year by our independent food hygiene consultants were successful in achieving the required standard.
On gas gWh 187.7 165.8 occasions, audit teams have also included our own food safety specialists so that we can see at first hand the processes and standards our suppliers adhere to.
Having five regional breweries helps minimise the carbon footprint we electricity gWh 124.1 95.8 generate in producing and distributing our beers.
Similarly, by sourcing locally wherever possible and keeping our external suppliers under review we are able to minimise food and delivery miles.
3 Water breweries 000 m 704.8 659.2 All of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
fossil fuel diesel 000 gallons 579.3 465.3 award Winning food Providing healthy food does not mean compromising quality and this has been recognised in 2011 with a number of awards for our products.
emissions Co 000 tonnes 98.9 82.2 2 zz At the 2011 Menu Innovation & Development Awards MIT secured two awards for Best Childrens Menu and Best Community Pub Menu.
zz Our Steak and Marstons Pedigree Ale Pie won a Gold Total Waste 000 tonnes 45.4 36.9 award at the 2011 British Pie Awards.
zz At the 2011 British Frozen Federation Awards our Cod en Croute won Best New Main Course Meal Centre Product Waste recycled 000 tonnes 77.5% 65.3% Traditional Style Cuisine.
Increases in gas and electricity consumption in 2011 are mainly as a result of the increase in pubs being converted to Retail Agreements under which Marstons is responsible for energy costs.
Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel usage.
The fuel figures shown are for the distribution fleet.
24 24 Marston Marstons PLC s PLC Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 w www ww.
s. c co. o. u uk k 20680-04 26 11 11 Proof 4 Performance Having five regional breweries helps minimise the carbon footprint we generate in producing and distributing our beers.
Similarly, by sourcing locally wherever possible... we are able to minimise food and delivery miles.
achievements in 2011 focus in 2012 zz Reduction in waste to landfill glass recycling zz To improve the level of food recycling from our collections up by 5% managed pubs zz Increase in energy efficiency at our Wolverhampton zz To implement new solutions for energy saving in our brewery by 20% pubs, including: zz Increase in water efficiency at our breweries by lED lamps, voltage reduction equipment, new up to 10% space heating controls and improved insulation free-air cooling systems for pub beer cellars zz Increase in waste recycling collections solar thermal, solar PV and heat pump solutions Running Hare, Ewloe 22% comparable saving in electricity Case Study: New Pub Development Marstons is the uKs largest builder of new pubs.
We are determined that these are as energy efficient as possible and have developed designs which include low heat loss and reduced air infiltration, heat recovery, comprehensive monitoring, close control and high efficiency equipment items.
Such measures have been shown to reduce energy levels by over 20%, compared to older sites.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS Stock Exchange Code: MARS 25 25 20680-04 26 11 11 Proof 4
