80 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Our audit approach Report on the group financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs group financial statements the Materiality Overall group materiality: 11m which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
financial statements : Audit Scope We conducted audit work at 17 reporting units.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the Business units where we performed audit work accounted for 100% of group profit before tax year then ended: and 77% of group net assets.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Areas of focus Goodwill and intangible asset impairment International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as assessments.
adopted by the European Union: and Environmental and contractual provisions.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Revenue recognition under long term contract the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accounting primarily in the groups energy business.
What we have audited Retirement benefit obligation liability.
Meggitt PLCs financial statements comprise: Provision for uncertain tax positions.
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated The scope of our audit and our areas of focus statement of comprehensive income for the year then We conducted our audit in accordance with International ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then We designed our audit by determining materiality and ended: assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the made subjective judgements, for example in respect of year then ended: and significant accounting estimates that involved making the notes to the financial statements, which include a assumptions and considering future events that are inherently summary of significant accounting policies and other uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of explanatory information.
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect cross-referenced from the financial statements and are on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, identified as audited.
are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Each of the areas of focus below is also referred to in the Audit Committee report on page 52 and in the critical accounting estimates and judgements on pages 96 to 98.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
indd 80 04 03 2015 17:36 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 81 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Refer also to notes 18, 19 and 20 pages 107 to 110 We evaluated and challenged the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by The group holds significant amounts of goodwill which they were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use calculations.
We 1.5bn, acquired intangibles 0.7bn, compared the directors forecast to the latest Board approved five year plans and assessed development costs 0.3bn and programme the actual performance in the year against the prior year budgets to evaluate budgeting participation costs 0.2bn on the balance sheet.
We focused on the risk that certain of these balances could be overstated.
The key assumption in the Sensing Systems business forecast is the planned level of We focused in particular on the estimated value in profitability following a significant decline in profits during 2014.
In assessing this assumption use of the Meggitt Sensing Systems business as it we evaluated in particular the likelihood of the factors that drove the decline in profits during has the lowest percentage headroom of estimated 2014 impacting the business over the 5 year forecast period.
value in use over book value headroom 53.4m The key assumption in the Braking Systems business forecast is the assumed level of and also the Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems growth.
In assessing this assumption the factors we considered included the expected business as it has the highest net book value of growth in the number of aircraft on which the braking business has its equipment based on goodwill and intangibles at 1.5bn and has the third party forecasts during the forecast period, in particular the aftermarket size and second lowest percentage headroom of estimated whether a sole source supplier position is held.
value in use over net book value headroom 313.6m.
In respect of both forecasts, we also challenged: the directors assumptions for terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations.
We performed sensitivity analysis in respect of the assumptions noted above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions which either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and intangible assets to be impaired and we assessed the likelihood of these changes in assumption arising.
Although uncertainties exist in any long term forecasting exercise, based on the work performed we reached the view that the cash flows required to support the carrying values are achievable.
Environmental and contractual provisions Refer also to note 31 page 119 The group has liabilities of 133.0m relating to Our work on the valuation of environmental liabilities comprised the following: environmental matters and 42.6m relating to We obtained the cost estimates and reports prepared by the groups external other matters.
We focused on these areas environmental consultants, for the most significant sites, and discussed these with the because certain of these provisions include groups internal legal counsel.
We agreed the provisions recorded to the cost estimates significant subjective judgements as set out included in these reports.
In addition we assessed the consistency of the cost estimates below.
year on year and the level of costs incurred compared to the prior year estimates.
The environmental matters, which primarily We assessed the competence of the external environmental consultants including relate to site remediation and clean up liabilities reviewing their qualifications and we assessed the level of historical accuracy of the at legacy manufacturing sites in the US, are estimates produced by these consultants and in-house legal experts by comparing them based on judgements as to the estimated to the actual costs or settlements.
clean-up cost and also the length of time that We assessed the extent of insurance coverage against the known exposures including operation and monitoring of the site is required.
obtaining evidence of the insurers financial position to assess their ability to meet the commitments in these policies.
In addition the group has contract related and other provisions based, for example, on We found no material exceptions in these tests.
estimates of the potential cost of settling any Our work on contract related and other provisions included obtaining corroborating claims for damages by customers and, where evidence for the directors cost estimates including looking at the historical level of actual appropriate, the cost of any new equipment or costs incurred against the estimated costs and comparing the future cost estimates to the rework required under the contract.
We also read legal and other correspondence with customers for evidence regarding claims outstanding or provided for at year end.
In addition where insurance exists in respect of an exposure we read the correspondence with the insurers.
We found no material exceptions in these tests.
We performed sensitivity analysis in respect of the cost estimates of contractual disputes including estimated costs of settlement and the expected cost of production of new equipment or rework, to ascertain the extent of change in those estimates that either individually or collectively would be required for the provisions to be materially misstated.
We discussed the likelihood of such a change in these estimates with the directors and agreed with their conclusion that this was unlikely.
indd 81 04 03 2015 17:36 82 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition under long term contract accounting primarily in the groups energy business Refer also to note 5 page 98 We focused on the recognition of revenue because We tested revenue recognised under long term contract accounting as follows: where long term contract accounting is used, Tested the calculation of stage of completion including testing the costs incurred and estimates and judgements are made in recorded against the contract for occurrence and accuracy, assessing the basis for determining the amount of revenue to be recorded.
determining the total contract cost and reperforming the percentage of completion The groups long term contract accounting is calculation.
primarily concentrated in its energy business Agreed that the revenue recognised was consistent with the calculated stage of which contracts to manufacture printed circuit completion.
These comprise the majority of Tested whether the work allocated to contracts had been carried out in the period in the group contract accounting revenue of 98.3m.
which the revenue had been recognised.
The recognition of revenue is largely dependent on For raw materials in stock at year end and allocated to contracts, tested to confirm that the estimated stage of completion of each contract these were made specifically for the contract and therefore that revenue was recorded which is determined based on the proportion of in the appropriate period.
contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs.
Assessed the estimates of costs to complete for major contracts and also assessed the historical accuracy of the estimates of total contract costs.
As these contracts sometimes span a number of reporting periods, changes in the estimate of total Examined any loss making contracts to determine the level of provisioning required and contract costs or the inappropriate recording of also assessed the actual profit or loss achieved on contracts that completed in the year costs around the year end could result in material compared to the forecast position in the prior year.
amounts of revenue being recorded in the We found no instances of inappropriate revenue recognition.
Retirement benefit obligation liability Refer also to note 33 pages 121 to 125 The group has retirement benefit obligations with We evaluated the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the liabilities.
In gross liabilities of 1,078.9m, which are significant particular: in the context of the overall balance sheet of the We compared assumed mortality rates to national and industry averages.
We assessed the assumption for salary increases against the groups historic trend and The valuation of retirement benefit obligations expected future outlook.
requires significant levels of judgement and We agreed the discount and inflation rates used to our internally developed benchmarks.
technical expertise in choosing appropriate We validated the census data used by the groups actuaries to the underlying data held assumptions.
Small changes in a number of the by the group and scheme administrators.
key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a We found no material exceptions in these tests.
material impact on the calculation of the liability.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions Refer also to note 14 page 105 Judgements have to be made by management on We evaluated the process by which management have calculated each exposure and we the tax treatment of a number of transactions in challenged the estimates made by management in arriving at the provision for uncertain tax advance of the ultimate tax determination being positions.
We also calculated our own range of outcomes in respect of each of the significant known.
These uncertain tax outcomes result tax exposures.
In addition we considered any tax opinions or other tax reports the group had from the complexity of the groups legal received from its tax advisors in relation to the exposures identified to determine if the structure including multiple legal entities and treatment is consistent with the advice obtained.
We also tested the underlying calculation the multiple tax jurisdictions primarily the UK of the provision for uncertain tax positions.
We found that the assumptions management and US and the changing tax environment in have used in developing the estimated exposure provided a reasonable basis for which the group operates.
arises from the level of tax credits claimed and the level of intergroup transactions that are recorded.
How we tailored the audit scope functions maintain their own accounting records and controls We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed although transactional processing and certain controls for enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial some reporting units are performed at the groups shared statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic service centres and report to the head office finance team structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, through an integrated consolidation system.
and the industry in which the group operates.
In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we The groups accounting process is structured around a local determined the type of work that needed to be performed at finance function in each of the groups reporting units.
These the reporting units by the group engagement team and by 93987 p80-84.
indd 82 04 03 2015 17:36 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 83 component auditors from other PwC network firms or by our statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The shared service centre teams.
Where the work was performed going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate by component auditors or our shared service centre teams, we resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial audit work at those reporting units so as to be able to conclude statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be statements as a whole.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups For each reporting unit we determined whether we required ability to continue as a going concern.
an audit of their complete financial information or whether specified procedures addressing parts of their financial Other required reporting information would be sufficient.
Those where a complete audit Consistency of other information was required included the largest reporting unit Meggitt Companies Act 2006 opinion Aircraft Braking Systems Akron, because this makes up more In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report than 15% of the groups revenue and profits.
We included a and the Directors report for the financial year for which the further 9 reporting units in 4 countries based on their size or financial statements are prepared is consistent with the risk and performed specified procedures on a further 7 financial statements.
reporting units in respect of specific balances.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a ISAs UK & Ireland reporting number of complex items were audited by the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in engagement team at the head office.
These included derivative ouropinion: financial instruments, hedge accounting, defined benefit pension schemes, share based payments and goodwill.
The information in the Annual Report is: We have no group engagement team also visited 10 businesses in 3 exceptions to materially inconsistent with the countries UK, USA and Switzerland to review the work report arising from information in the audited financial undertaken by component auditors and to assess the findings.
statements: or Together these 17 reporting units accounted for 100% of Group apparently materially incorrect based profit before tax and 77% of net assets.
This gave us the on, or materially inconsistent with, our evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements knowledge of the group acquired in the as a whole.
course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of the statement given by the directors on page We have no exceptions to materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for 79, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the report arising from materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, UK Corporate Governance Code the this responsibility.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, Code, that they consider the Annual Report timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial understandable and provides the statements as a whole.
information necessary for members to assess the groups performance, business Based on our professional judgement, we determined model and strategy is materially inconsistent materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 51, We have no How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax.
as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied this describing the work of the Audit Committee report arising from applied benchmark, a generally accepted does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
auditing practice, in the absence of communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Adequacy of information and explanations received misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2013: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 37, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial 93987 p80-84.
indd 83 04 03 2015 17:36 84 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Corporate governance statement information in the Annual Report to identify material Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Code.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Responsibilities for the financial statements and inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
theaudit Other matter Our responsibilities and those of the directors We have reported separately on the company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December responsibilities set out on pages 78 to 79, the directors are 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and report that is described as having been audited.
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to London whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 23 February 2015 where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
