STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 133 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Report on the company financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our opinion in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs company financial statements the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report financial statements : arising from this responsibility.
give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit have been properly prepared in accordance with United Our responsibilities and those of the directors Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the set out on pages 78 to 79, the directors are responsible for the Companies Act 2006. preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we have audited Meggitt PLCs financial statements comprise: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the prior consent in writing.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted What an audit of financial statements involves Accounting Practice.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other required reporting disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Consistency of other information reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Companies Act 2006 opinion includes an assessment of: In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs the overall presentation of the financial statements.
UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the information in the Annual Report is: directors judgements against available evidence, forming our materially inconsistent with the information in the audited own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial financial statements: or statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We test and examine information, using sampling and other inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to the course of performing our audit: or provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain is otherwise misleading.
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Adequacy of accounting records and information and in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the explanations received audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially in our opinion: inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of we have not received all the information and explanations we performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent require for our audit: or material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Other matter the financial statements and the part of the Directors We have reported separately on the group financial statements of remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014. the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 for and on behalf of  LLP opinion Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be London audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 23 February 2015 Companies Act 2006.
