Melrose Industries PLC 98 Annual Report 2014 Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Opinion on financial statements of Melrose Industries PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and the Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the related notes 1 to 30 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 9 to the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 49 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same risks identified in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provisions Legal, environmental, restructuring, property and warranty We challenged the assumptions underlying the recognition and valuation of provisions as at 31 December 2014 totalled 177.0 million.
The provisions through checking and verifying the inputs used to calculate the recognition and valuation of the expected outcome of these provisions, including review of the nature and timings of formal restructuring provisions requires the exercise of management judgement plans, review of third party correspondence, discussion with the Groups and the use of estimates giving rise to inherent subjectivity lawyers, applicability of relevant laws and regulations and review of agreements.
in the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Further we assessed the level of historical warranty claims and obtained the Note 3 includes this as one of the significant accounting specific warranty terms and conditions provided in order to ascertain whether judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty the warranty provisions held were sufficient to cover all obligations in existence at and note 20 includes further details on the provisions.
the year-end in light of known claims and standard warranty periods provided.
Exceptional items The presentation and consistency of costs and income within A sample of exceptional items including all material items has been agreed exceptional items is a key determinant in the assessment of the to source documentation and evaluated by the component and Group audit quality of the Groups underlying earnings.
The exceptional teams as to their nature in order to assess whether they are in line with the operating costs and exceptional operating income for the year Groups accounting policy and also to assess consistency of managements ended 31 December 2014 are 34.3 million and 5.4 million application of the policy with previous accounting periods.
In particular we respectively and are therefore significant to the statutory net evaluated the reversal of any items originally booked as exceptional and profit for the year.
confirmed that the reversal of any fair value items recorded on acquisition is appropriately classified as exceptional items.
Note 2 includes the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items and note 6 include further details on the exceptional items.
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC 99 Annual Report 2014 Financials Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Goodwill and intangibles The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets as at We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill 31 December 2014 is 2,405.3 million.
The assumptions include and intangible assets, specifically including the cash flow projections, future projected cash flows, the perpetual growth rate and the discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and the sensitivities applied.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to This is included in note 3 as one of the significant accounting historical trading performance, consulting with our valuation specialists and judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and benchmarking assumptions such as the perpetual growth rate and discount note 12 includes more details on goodwill and intangibles.
rate to external macro-economic and market data.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising.
Recognition of deferred tax assets and accounting for uncertain tax positions Recognition of deferred tax assets is based on managements We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions and estimates in relation to judgements of the availability of future taxable profits.
the likelihood of generating future taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
We considered those assumptions, including the expected In addition, the value of the tax provisions recorded in respect timing of business disposals, and supporting forecasts and estimates as well of a number of uncertain tax positions requires judgements in as the appropriateness of the tax disclosures.
respect of the likely outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from various tax authorities.
We worked with our tax audit specialists in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets and to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax Accordingly tax provisioning is included in note 3 as one of treatments, including the review of correspondence with the revenue the significant accounting judgements and key sources of authorities to assess the reasonableness of the provisions made.
estimation uncertainty and note 21 includes details of the deferred tax assets recognised.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 73.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 11 million 2013: 13 million, which is 5.2% 2013: 5.7% of headline profit before tax and below 1% of equity.
We use headline profit before tax to provide a stable basis for materiality that reflects the focus of the users of the financial statements.
This excludes the effect of separately disclosed exceptional items, as these can be volatile, and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, as excluding the relatively high amortisation charge, given the acquisitive nature of the Group, provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations and is consistent with the profit measure most relevant to analysts and investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 250,000 2013: 250,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Melrose Industries PLC 100 Annual Report 2014 Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Groups 66 2013: 72 locations are organised into the 4 2013: 5 continuing divisions described in the Business Review on pages 28 to 35 of this Annual Report.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on audit work at 29 2013: 25 locations.
The difference to last year is due to changes in composition of the Group.
23 of these were subject to a full audit 2013: 18, whilst the remaining 6 2013: 7 were subject to full scope audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and on the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
The 23 locations subject to full audit represent business units within each of the Groups continuing reportable segments and accounted for 64% 2013: 63% of the continuing Groups revenue, 69% 2013: 70% of the total operating segments continuing headline operating profit i. e. before central costs.
The 6 locations subject to full audit procedures account for 23% 2013: 24% of the continuing Groups revenue and 23% 2013: 21% of the continuing Groups headline operating profit i. e. before central costs.
Full audit or full audit procedures undertaken at the 29 locations or performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 94% 2013: 94% of the Groups net assets.
The locations subject to full audit or specified audit procedures were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work and audit procedures at the 29 locations were performed at lower levels of materiality determined by reference to the relative scale of the business division concerned and no higher than 5.2 million.
The senior statutory auditor or other senior members of the Group audit team visited 12 of the largest locations for the audit 2013: 12.
The Group audit team met with the management teams including Managing Directors and Finance Directors of all the continuing businesses during the year end audit.
The senior statutory auditor also held audit close meetings with all of the 4 continuing businesses, which cover all locations.
In years when we do not visit a component within our Group audit scope: we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC 101 Annual Report 2014 Financials Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Mercer, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 4 March 2015
