Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Report on the Company financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Our opinion in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the at 30 April 2014: audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of In our opinion: the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the report for the financial year for which the financial statements remainder of this report.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and What we have audited the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The Company financial statements the financial statements, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies which are prepared by Micro Focus International plc, comprise: Act 2006. the Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2014: and Other matters on which we are required to report by exception the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Adequacy of accounting records and information and significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their in our opinion: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example on significant adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, accounting estimates.
In making such judgements, they have made or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from assumptions and considered future events.
branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have the financial statements and the part of the Directors been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the accounting records and returns.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial this responsibility.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2014.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 18 June 2014 112 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
