Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Report on the Group financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves Our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 30 April 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by year then ended: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: have been properly prepared in accordance with International whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied European Union: and and adequately disclosed: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
by the directors: and This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in What we have audited the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently prepared by Micro Focus International plc, comprise: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 April 2014: If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Overview of our audit approach Materiality the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and statement We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine of cash flows for the year then ended: and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial the summary of significant accounting policies and notes to statements as a whole.
the consolidated financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be $7.6m.
This represents The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their approximately 5% of profit before tax.
We had regard to profit preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the before tax as we believe this is the most appropriate measure of European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.4m as well the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements reporting for qualitative reasons.
and are identified as audited.
Overview of the scope of our audit The financial statements are a consolidation of a significant number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses across its three segments.
There is also a centralised function through which the Group controls and processes revenue related transactions for the majority of the Groups reporting units.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we assessed How the scope of our audit Area of focus addressed the area of focus the audit significance of each of the reporting units by reference to both their financial significance and other indicators of audit risk such Revenue recognition as the complexity of their operations and the degree of estimation We focused on this area because Our testing focused on the larger and and judgement in their financial results.
Following this assessment ISAs UK & Ireland presume more complex revenue transactions and in we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the there is a risk of fraud in revenue aggregate these accounted for about 28% reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or by component recognition due to the pressure of total Licence revenue.
We supplemented auditors within PwC UK and other PwC network firms operating under management may feel to achieve this testing by a further haphazard sample the planned results.
We also over the remaining population of Licence our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, focused on this area due to the revenue.
We also evaluated the design we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit judgements that are needed and operating effectiveness of certain key work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient regarding the determination of controls that management has in place appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion appropriate fair values of Licence, over revenue recognition.
Maintenance and Consulting on the financial statements as a whole.
revenue components when sold In respect of sales contracts tested, we together in more significant, checked that the fair value allocation of Our work on the centralised function covered reporting units that and potentially more complex, revenue between the Licence, Maintenance comprise 89% of the Groups revenue.
The remaining 11% of Group sales transactions.
and Consulting components at deal inception revenue resides in Japan and Brazil where we used other PwC network was appropriate and in line with the terms of We also focused on whether sales contracts and Group accounting policies.
firms to perform targeted audit testing.
We additionally used component revenue was recorded in the This included considering any unusual terms auditors within PwC UK to perform audits of financial information of correct period and how processes in sales contracts and the period during which four reporting units and PwC network firms to perform specified audit may have been circumvented maintenance is to be provided to the customer.
procedures over a further four reporting units, together comprising and manual adjustments made Particular focus was given to sales made to revenue.
around the year end to check these were 80% of the Groups cost base.
accounted for in the correct period.
In addition we performed group-level analytical procedures over the We also analysed manual journal entries remaining reporting units.
This, together with additional procedures impacting revenue across all significant performed at the Group level over the consolidation process, gave reporting units.
Our work specifically focused on understanding the reasons for any adjustments us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements and examining appropriate evidence.
Risk of management override of internal controls Areas of particular audit focus ISAs UK & Ireland require We considered areas where management In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of that we consider this to be a may have exercised bias in judgements formed subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting significant risk in all audits.
We identified the principal risks associated with this to be the estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future possible manipulation of fair value accounting events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work for the multiple components of revenue.
in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available Our response to this is noted above.
We also evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures assessed the overall control environment of the Group which included interviewing senior in the financial statements.
management and the Groups internal audit function.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary We analysed manual journals posted across to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained reporting units to identify and test higher risk journals.
We also tested significant adjustments audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive made to the financial statements at the procedures or a combination of both.
Capitalization of development expenditure We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas The Group capitalizes a material We considered the key areas of judgement, of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with level of development expenditure including evaluating managements assessment on an annual basis.
We focused that the necessary criteria for capitalization under the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they on this area because the decision IFRSs were met at the point of commencement considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial as to the amounts of development of capitalization.
We also tested costs that were statements is set out on pages 33 and 34. expenditure to be capitalized capitalized to supporting evidence to check that requires judgement.
64 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Directors remuneration How the scope of our audit Area of focus addressed the area of focus Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Taxation provisions by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising The Group has a material level We obtained the latest correspondence from this responsibility.
of provisions in respect of between the Group and the relevant tax taxation.
These provisions require authorities, understood the judgements made Corporate Governance Statement the directors to make estimates by the directors, held meetings with senior of amounts that will be required management and reviewed correspondence Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of to settle the Groups obligations from the Groups external advisers and the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys in respect of uncertain tax considered their views on these matters.
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance positions.
These estimates We challenged the judgements made by the Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed are inherently subjective and directors and evaluated the appropriateness therefore give rise to greater of the provisions and disclosures made.
On page 30 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Going Concern C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On pages 33 and 34, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern to report to you if, in our opinion: basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going our audit: or concern basis is appropriate.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Other information in the Annual Report In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial opinion, information in the Annual Report is: statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Other matters on which we are required to report statements: or by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations performing our audit: or we require for our audit.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 18 June 2014 66 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
