Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only performance may result in further Classification and Valuation of Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit impairment being recorded.
The investment properties 479m Group uses a mixture of external Refer to Audit & Risk Committee Report, 1 Our opinion on the financial valuations and internal analyses to statements is unmodified Note 2.3 Summary of significant assess its hotels for impairment.
accounting policies, Note 3 Accounting The estimation of the recoverable We have audited the financial statements estimates and judgements, and Note 14 amount of hotel assets is complex of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc for financial disclosures.
and dependent on assumptions about the year ended 31 December 2014 set the future.
Specifically, significant out on pages 76 to 146.
In our opinion: The risk: Classification of an asset judgement is required in relation as investment property rather than to the appropriate discount rates, the financial statements give a true as Property, Plant & Equipment growth rates, occupancy rates, and fair view of the state of the requires judgement, and is determined terminal values and forecast cash Groups and of the parent companys by reference to the Groups future flows to use in determining value in affairs as at 31 December 2014 and intentions and the Groups business use.
Therefore, this is one of the key of the Groups profit for the year model.
As discussed in Note 2.3, this judgemental areas on which our audit then ended: also results in a different accounting is concentrated.
treatment because Property, Plant the Group financial statements Our response: Our procedures and Equipment is recorded at have been properly prepared in included, among others, using our depreciated cost whereas investment accordance with International own valuation specialists to assist us properties are carried at fair value.
Financial Reporting Standards as in assessing the appropriateness of The valuation models applied to adopted by the European Union: the valuation model used, including determine the value of investment the parent company financial compliance with relevant accounting properties are complex and sensitive statements have been properly standards and alignment to market to assumptions around occupancy prepared in accordance with UK practice.
Our valuation specialists rates, market growth, sales and Accounting Standards: and also helped us assess the scope rental rates, as well as discount rates of work performed, competency, and terminal multipliers.
The Group the financial statements have been professional qualifications, experience also currently invests in properties prepared in accordance with the and independence of the external under construction.
The Group requirements of the Companies experts used by the Group.
With engaged external experts to value its Act 2006 and, as regards the Group input from our valuation specialists, investment properties.
Valuing these financial statements, Article 4 of the we challenged the key assumptions properties is complicated by the lack IAS Regulation.
used in determining the recoverable of comparable market transactions, 2 Our assessment of risks of amount of the assets, which was and the difficulty of forecasting material misstatement generally considered to be their value expected cash flows sufficiently in use.
This included a comparison reliably before the construction In arriving at our audit opinion above of occupancy rates, revenue per is complete.
Therefore, for these on the financial statements the risks available room, market growth and properties, the Group may apply a of material misstatement that had the expected inflation with externally cost model.
Judgement is required greatest effect on our audit were as derived data including external hotel in determining when the fair value follows.
We also performed model becomes more appropriate.
On our own assessment of other key this basis, classification and valuation Valuation of Hotel assets 2,753m inputs such as estimated future of investment properties are key Refer to Audit & Risk Committee Report, costs, discount rates and terminal judgemental areas on which our audit Note 2.3 Summary of significant multipliers, and applied sensitivities is concentrated.
accounting policies, Note 3 Accounting to key assumptions to assess the Our response: When considering the estimates and judgements, and Note 12 impact on available headroom.
We appropriate classification of a property financial disclosures.
assessed the principles and integrity our procedures included making of the discounted cash flow models enquiries of the senior members The risk: The Group has 2.8 billion and considered whether the Groups of the finance team and Directors, of hotel assets, which are subject to disclosures met the requirements of inspecting internal business plans, annual reviews to assess whether relevant accounting standards.
and considering key terms of external they may be impaired.
Certain hotels contracts and agreements.
We were impaired in 2013, meaning that analysed the appropriateness of the the headroom for these properties valuation methodology applied, and is limited and any further decline in Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 72 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only continued considered whether it is in line with control over CDLHT under the new provisions.
We considered whether accounting requirements and business consolidation standard.
We critically there was evidence of bias by the practice.
We challenged the key assessed the Groups analysis and directors or by management in the assumptions used in determining fair key agreements between the Group significant accounting estimates value.
This included a comparison of and CDLHT in order to understand and judgements relevant to the forecast rental rates, market growth, the key rights that the Group holds financial statements and for the occupancy rates, and real estate sales over CDLHT.
We also considered material unusual and for one-off prices with externally derived data.
We the financial relationship between transactions impacting the income also performed our own assessment the Group and CDLHT through our statement.
We increased the scope of other key inputs such as discount review of the historical dividend of our interviews with middle and rates and terminal multipliers.
Our flows and management agreements.
lower level management and used valuation specialists assisted in the We assessed the significance of the information gathered to assess evaluation of the more subjective and the Groups financial returns from whether there were any indications complex assumptions and analyses.
CDLHT and the Groups ability to of management override taking Finally, we assessed whether the control them.
We also assessed the overall Groups disclosures properly reflected the breakdown of holdings of control environment of the Group, the risks inherent in the calculations CDLHTs equity to assess whether with a focus on those controls and met the requirements of relevant the holdings by other investors are designed to prevent instances of accounting standards.
widely dispersed, thus giving the fraud and the arrangements for practical ability to the Group to make staff to whistleblow inappropriate Consolidation accounting decisions at general meetings.
To assess the strength of further tested the integrity and the Groups governance and controls Refer to Audit & Risk Committee Report, principles of the Groups calculations self-assessment, we interviewed Note 2.2 changes in accounting policies to reflect the change of the accounting senior management, members of and Note 3 Accounting estimates and treatment of CDLHT in the Groups the Board and the Head of Internal judgements.
focused on intercompany eliminations, The risk: Following the adoption In our audit report for the year ended consolidation adjustments and of the new accounting standard 31December 2013 we included taxation alignment of CDLHTs results to the dealing with consolidation and the and revenue recognition on development Groups accounting policies.
We also introduction of a new definition of properties as two of the risks of material assessed whether the disclosures in control the Group has reassessed misstatement that had the greatest effect the annual report are compliant with whether its investment in CDL on our audit.
We considered taxation risk the relevant accounting standards Hospitality Trust CDLHT should to be less significant in the current year be consolidated.
Following this Management override as the Groups tax models are now better analysis, the Group consolidated established, following the completion CDLHT for the first time in 2014.
The risk: There were a number of the extensive exercise to assess The assessment of control requires of changes in senior management the appropriateness of its Deferred Tax a significant level of judgement, personnel that coincided with the balances.
Furthermore, there are no particularly in relation to CDLHT 2014 year end reporting timetable.
significant new tax matters impacting where the Group holds less than This means that there was a greater the Group which require a significant 50% of the units in CDLHT but has risk of management override of level of judgement.
With respect to other significant rights in respect internal controls during this period.
revenue recognition, last year the Group of its management which the In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland recognised a one-time sale of a particular Group has concluded are sufficient require that we consider the risk of development in its Asia region, which was to constitute control.
In light of management override of internal a judgemental area.
In the current year, these facts, whether the CDLHT controls.
most of the revenue represents income should be consolidated under the from hotel operations and rental income.
Our response: In response new accounting standard and the While significant, these revenue streams we reduced the threshold for subsequent accounting entries were are not susceptible to a significant risk of testing manual journal entries, areas on which we focused our fraud or error.
We increased the Our response: Our work in this area nature and extent of our work in included assessing the judgements respect of the areas of the balance and conclusions made by the Group sheet most prone to management in determining whether it has override, particularly accruals and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 73 component and ranged from 0.2m to we have identified material 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our 6m.
inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit Detailed instructions were sent to all audit and the directors statement The materiality for the Group financial the auditors in these locations.
These that they consider that the annual statements as a whole was set at 8.3m.
instructions covered the significant areas report and financial statements This has been determined with reference that should be covered by the component taken as a whole is fair, balanced to a benchmark of the Group profit before auditors which included the relevant risks and understandable and provides tax and after non-controlling interest, of material misstatement detailed above the information necessary for which we consider to be one of the and set out the information required shareholders to assess the Groups principal considerations for members of to be reported back to the Group audit performance, business model and the company in assessing the financial team.
The Group audit team carried out strategy: or performance of the Group.
Materiality reviews of audit workpapers covering the represents 5.0% of the Group profit the Audit & Risk Committee Report significant risks identified for Singapore, before tax and after non-controlling does not appropriately address New Zealand and US.
matters communicated by us to the auditor also visited the Singapore and Audit & Risk Committee.
US offices during the planning stages of We agreed with the Audit & Risk the audit.
Telephone planning and closing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Committee to report to it all uncorrected meetings were also held with the auditors required to report to you if, in our opinion: misstatements we identified through our at all of these locations.
audit with a value in excess of 410,000, adequate accounting records have not in addition to other audit misstatements 4 Our opinion on other matters been kept by the parent company, or below that threshold that we believe prescribed by the Companies Act returns adequate for our audit have warranted reporting on qualitative 2006 is unmodified not been received from branches not grounds.
In addition we considered visited by us: or whether any misstatements corrected by In our opinion: management identified during the course the parent company financial of the audit should be communicated to the part of the Directors statements and the part of the the Audit & Risk Committee to assist it in Remuneration Report to be audited Directors Remuneration Report to be fulfilling its governance responsibilities.
has been properly prepared in audited are not in agreement with the accordance with the Companies Act accounting records and returns: or Audits for the Group reporting purposes 2006: and certain disclosures of directors were performed by component auditors the information given in the remuneration specified by law are not at the reporting components in the Strategic Report and the Directors made: or following territories: United Kingdom: Asia Report for the financial year for in particular Singapore and New Zealand, we have not received all the which the financial statements are as these are considered to be the information and explanations we prepared is consistent with the material components in that region : and require for our audit.
In addition, reviews for the Group Under the Listing Rules we are required reporting purposes were performed by 5 We have nothing to report in to review: component teams in the Middle East and respect of the matters on which China.
Together, these Group procedures we are required to report by the directors statement, set out on covered 94% of total the Group revenue, exception page 45, in relation to going concern: 93% of the Group profit before taxation, Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are and and over 90% of the Group total assets.
required to report to you if, based on the the part of the Corporate Governance knowledge we acquired during our audit, The segment disclosures in Note 5 set Statement on page 47 relating to the we have identified other information in out the individual significance of a specific Companys compliance with the ten the annual report that contains a material territory.
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate inconsistency with either that knowledge Governance Code specified for our or the financial statements, a material The audits and reviews undertaken for review.
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise the Group reporting purposes at the key misleading.
We have nothing to report in respect of reporting components of the Group were the above responsibilities.
all performed to component materiality In particular, we are required to report to levels set by, or agreed with, the Group you if: audit team.
These component materiality levels were set individually for each Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 74 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only continued Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Steve Masters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 February 2015 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Financial statements Further information Overview Governance 75 Financial statements 76 Consolidated income statement 77 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78 Consolidated statement of financial position 80 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 81 Consolidated statement of cash flows 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141 Company balance sheet 142 Notes to the Company financial statements Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
