Financial statements 120 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Report on the financial statements We have audited the combined and consolidated financial statements of Mondi Limited set out on pages 126 to 179, which comprise the combined and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014, the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows and the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Directors responsibility for the financial statements The Groups directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraudor error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the combined and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the Groups preparation and presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the combined and consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of Mondi Limited as at 31 December 2014, and of its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with IFRS and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008.
Other reports required by the Companies Act As part of our audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, we have read the Directors report included in the Governance section of the Integrated report and the DLC audit committees report for the purpose of identifying whether there are material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements.
These reports are the responsibility of the respective preparers.
Based on reading these reports we have not identified material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements.
However, we have not audited these reports and accordingly do not express an opinion on these reports.
Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Per: Bronwyn Kilpatrick Partner Sandton 23 February 2015 Building 1 and 2, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton Republic of South Africa National Executive: LL Bam Chief Executive AE Swiegers Chief Operating Officer GM Pinnock Audit DL Kennedy Risk Advisory NB Kader Tax TP Pillay Consulting KBlack Clients & Industries JK Mazzocco Talent & Transformation MJ Jarvis Finance M Jordan Strategy S Gwala Managed Services TJ Brown Chairman of the Board MJ Comber Deputy Chairman of the Board A full list of partners and directors is available on request BBBEE rating: Level 2 contributor in terms of the Chartered Accountancy Profession Sector Code Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Partner and Registered Auditor Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the 121 members of Mondi plc Opinion on financial statements of Mondi plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Mondi plc parent companys affairs as at 31December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the Mondi plc parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard101, Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated and Mondi plc parent company statements of financial position, the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows, the combined and consolidated and Mondi plc parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 34 of the combined and consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 8 of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements is applicable law and Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange we have reviewed the directors statement on pages 115 to 116 that the Group is agoing concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 122 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment Goodwill of 545 million 2013: 550 million is reviewed annually Our audit procedures included testing the design and for impairment using a value-in-use basis, while property, plant and implementation of key controls around the impairment review equipment of 3,432 million 2013: 3,428 million are assessed process, and challenging managements key assumptions used for impairment where possible impairment indicators are identified.
in the cash flow forecasts included within the impairment models for goodwill and property, plant and equipment with reference The Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and to historical trading performance, market expectations and our property, plant and equipment requires significant management understanding of the future utilisation of assets by the Group.
judgement, as described in note 1 to the Group financial Particular focus was given to the incorporation of country risk within statements, in particular in relation to the forecast future cash flows, the Groups forecasts.
In performing our audit procedures, we used future growth rates and the discount rates applied.
internal valuation specialists to assess the discount rate applied by benchmarking against independent data.
Key assumptions challenged include those related to the level at which impairment is assessed, being for property, plant and equipment the lowest level at which largely independent cash inflows can be identified and for goodwill the businesses that are expected to benefit from the acquisition, forecast future cash flows, future growth rates and the discount rates applied.
We also evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment models to reasonably possible charges and considered the disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment review.
Business combinations During the year, the Group made a number of acquisitions as We tested the design and implementation of controls detailed in note 23, most notably the acquisition of the bags and around managements process for the determination of fair kraft paper business of Graphic Packaging for 74 million.
On acquisition, the Group was required to determine the fair value of Furthermore, our audit work, which involved internal valuation identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree.
specialists to assess whether the methodology utilised by The determination of the fair value of these assets and liabilities management in determining the fair valuation of assets and liabilities requires the exercise of significant management judgement, in acquired was appropriate, included assessing the completeness particular, where their values differ significantly from prior book of fair value adjustments recognised and the appropriateness of value, to ensure the completeness of assets and liabilities identified valuation methodologies applied in order to determine the fair value and in relation to the fair value adjustments applied to the book of assets and liabilities.
We further assessed the completeness and values of other assets acquired.
appropriateness of the accounting by reading the key documents associated with the acquisition, including the sale and purchase Management engaged external valuation specialists to assist in agreement, board papers and due diligence reports.
relation to the acquisition accounting process, focusing specifically on the adjustments arising from property, plant and equipment.
We challenged key assumptions utilised by reference to historical and forecast cash flows, third party evidence such as local market data relating to property and discount rates applied.
We also visited the kraft paper mill and bags plant in Pine Bluff to understand the nature of the acquired operations and assess the condition of the assets.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 123 Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment The Group continues to invest in significant capital projects Our audit work included testing the design and implementation with capital expenditure of 590 million during the year ended of key controls around the capitalisation process, assessing the 31 December 2014, as detailed in note 12, of which 303 million nature of property, plant and equipment capitalised by the Group relating to the Groups major capital projects, including those in to test the validity of amounts capitalised and evaluating whether wiecie, tt, Syktyvkar and Ruomberok.
assets capitalised meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 16.
Our work considered whether capitalisation of assets ceased The significant level of capital expenditure requires consideration when the asset is in the location and condition necessary for it of the nature of costs incurred to ensure that capitalisation of to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Group property, plant and equipment meets the specific recognition and that a consistent approach was applied by the Group across criteria in IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment, specifically in all operations.
relation to assets constructed by the Group, and the application of management judgement in assigning appropriate useful Furthermore, we challenged the useful economic lives assigned economic lives.
with reference to the Groups historical experience, our understanding of the future utilisation of assets by the Group and by reference to the depreciation policies applied by third parties operating similar assets.
Taxation The Group operates across a number of tax jurisdictions giving Our audit work, which involved taxation audit specialists within rise to a high level of cross border transactions and complex specific locations where local tax knowledge was required, taxation arrangements.
included the assessment of taxation assets and liabilities, with particular consideration and challenge given to the judgements Furthermore, as detailed in note 8, the existence of tax incentives taken in relation to corporate tax provisions and the recognition of available to the Group and significant tax losses give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities.
additional judgement in determining the appropriate tax charge for the Group.
Our assessment included the review of applicable third party evidence and correspondence with tax authorities.
In relation to deferred tax assets, we considered the appropriateness of managements judgements of the availability of future appropriate taxable profits in assessing whether to recognise deferred tax assets.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the DLC audit committee as discussed on pages 77 and 78.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 30 million 2013: 28 million, which is below 5% 2013: 5% of profit before tax and special items, and below 2% 2013: 2% of equity.
Special items are defined by the Group as those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance by the Group with further details provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
Since these items are non-recurring in nature, we have concluded that it is appropriate to exclude these items in determining materiality.
We agreed with the DLC audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences identified in excess of 600,000 2013: 560,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the DLC audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 124 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Mondi Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi plc and Mondi Limited, which operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi plc and its subsidiaries, and Mondi Limited and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, the financial statements of Mondi Group is prepared and reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single reporting entity.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused primarily on the audit work at 16 locations 2013: 15 locations from across Mondi Group, which were subject to a full audit completed using materiality which was set at a level lower than Group materiality.
These 16 locations 2013: 15 locations represent the principal business units and account for 63% 2013: 63% of the Groups revenue.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
A further 27 locations 2013: 30 locations were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 27 locations 2013: 30 locations represent a further 20% 2013: 21% of the Groups revenue.
From the above audit scope, in aggregate the locations subject to audit procedures represents 83% 2013: 84% of the Groups revenue.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits the 10 operating locations 2013: eight operating locations that have been assessed as the most financially significant to the Group at least once every three years, or more frequently where other indicators are identified.
In the current year, a senior member of the Group audit team therefore visited certain of the Groups operations in the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Turkey and the United States.
For all full scope locations, we discussed risk assessment and audit planning with the component team before the commencement of our work.
Furthermore, for each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team also discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining six locations 2013: seven locations where full audits were completed, we discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team, reviewed audit working papers in relation to key issues and discussed key matters with divisional management where considered necessary in forming our Group audit opinion.
In relation to the 27 locations 2013: 30 locations which were subject to an audit of specified account balances, we discussed the results of these businesses and accounting matters arising through our involvement in divisional meetings with management.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the UK Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Governance section of the Integrated report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you records if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 125 Corporate governance section Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance section relating to the companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Integrated report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Integrated report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Integrated report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Integrated report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the DLC audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Integrated report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 23 February 2015 Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
