Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit: 1Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 65 to 92.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: MoneySavingExpert.
com contingent remuneration payable Consolidated Statement of Financial Position accrual 15.3 million, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge 4.2 million, of which 0.3 million relates to interest unwind Refer to page 38 Audit Committee Report, page 70 accounting policy and page 81 financial disclosures.
The risk The quantum of contingent remuneration arising from the MoneySavingExpert.
com acquisition in 2012 is dependent upon achievement of a number of non-financial measures and is in part at the discretion of the Board, subject to continued employment over a 3 year period.
The judgemental nature of the estimate is considered a significant audit risk.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, comparing the relevant non-financial measures of MoneySavingExpert.
com at 31 December 2014, as reported to the Board, to the requirements set out in the Share and Purchase Agreement.
Data analytics were used to review the measurement bases and we challenged the Groups assessment of the potential outcomes with reference to the actual performance of each measure as at the year end, including reviewing managements sensitivity analysis of potential outcomes.
In respect of the discretionary element, we inspected board minutes and received a specific Board Representation to confirm that the estimate is consistent with the current expectations of the Board.
We considered the sufficiency and adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the estimate of the contingent remuneration recognised, particularly the method of estimation, significant assumptions used and degree of estimation uncertainty, as required by relevant accounting standards.
Capitalised software and development costs 15.9 million Refer to page 38 Audit Committee Report, page 71 accounting policy and pages 79-80 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group has incurred significant software and development project costs in the year in respect of the technology reset program including, platform aggregation, TravelSupermarket and mobile optimisation.
These are capitalised to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to be generated by these projects.
This requires judgements as to the successful completion of projects and whether sufficient revenue and profitability will be generated to ensure the recoverability of the cost being capitalised.
The key inputs in the Directors return on investment calculations, specifically customer conversion rates, ability to cross sell products, revenue growth and timing and amount of capital expenditure, all require significant estimation and judgement.
The Directors also apply judgement in the classification of spend as development in nature rather than on-going operational expenditure.
Given the significant value of the software and development assets, and in light of the early stage of the projects, this is considered to be an area of significant audit risk.
Our response Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the inputs into the Groups project forecasts, assessment of the historical accuracy of the Directors forecasting and interviews with key operational personnel to obtain a breadth of different views about project progress.
For the key inputs we critically assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions with reference to internal data.
We assessed whether costs had been appropriately capitalised in respect of significant projects by comparison to the recognition criteria of relevant accounting standards for a statistically selected sample.
We evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the risks inherent in the projects as at the year end date.
62 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Revenue 248.1 million Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 70 accounting policy and page 80 financial disclosures.
The risk Revenue is recognised predominantly from internet lead generation click based revenues.
Revenue accruals are made based on an estimation of the likely number of successful conversions.
Revenue recognition, including the existence of revenue, is considered to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent complexities of the click recording system and the judgements made to estimate unbilled revenue at the period end.
Our response Our audit procedures included testing the general IT control environment of the Groups information system, where click activity is recorded, to assess whether general IT controls were in place and were operating effectively across the period.
This assessment supported the level of detailed testing by our own IT specialists to assess whether the system was recording clicks in the correct period, and that the number of clicks on which the Group is basing its revenue accrual estimate were derived from a system that is operating effectively.
This detailed testing involved re-performance of click-throughs in the live environment.
We selected a statistical sample of the year end revenue accruals and agreed these to confirmatory evidence, which included cash receipts and confirmation of successful applications from the end providers, which allowed us to make an assessment of the validity and accuracy of the total revenue accrual.
We compared total revenue recognised to our expectations based on cash receipts and movement of trade receivables and revenue accruals.
We analysed movements in revenue at an operating segment level based on changes in visitor numbers and transactions, and investigated unusual trends.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of click-based revenue recognition.
We continue to perform work over the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles.
However, in light of improved performance at both the Group and individual cash generating unit level, resulting in the underlying assumptions used in the Groups calculations not being sensitive to changes in key inputs, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.0 million 2013: 5.1 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude MoneySavingExpert.
com contingent remuneration costs and profit on the sale of HD Decisions, of 66.3 million.
Materiality represents 7.5% of normalised Group profit before tax 2013: 2.3% of Group revenue 2014: 2.0% of Group revenue.
The change in the benchmark used is due to the business now being well established, having reduced profit volatility and the integration of the MoneySavingExpert.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified differences exceeding 0.25 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group consists of nine components which are all audited by one audit team at the Groups head office.
98% of the Group revenues are generated from the main trading component, Moneysupermarket.
com Limiteds component materiality is 4.5 million.
We audit the remaining components to materiality ranging from 0.6 million to 4.5 million.
The Group audit scope covers 100% of Group revenues, 100% of Group profit before taxation, and 100% of total Group assets.
4Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 63 Governance Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only 5We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement or fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 36 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 2 March 2015 64 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
