90 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 91 InDepenDent AuDItorS report to tHe MeMBerS oF MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS plC only Provisions and contingent liabilities 22.8 million OPiniOnS And COnClUSiOnS AriSinG Refer to page 60 Audit Committee report, page 142 accounting policy FrOM OUr AUdit note and page 142 financial disclosures 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified the risk: provisions are held in respect of closure and restructuring We have audited the financial statements of Morgan Advanced costs, environmental issues and other matters including the settlement Materials plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise of european class actions.
the application of accounting standards to the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of determine whether a provision should be recorded and, if so, the Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in amount, is inherently subjective.
equity, the Consolidated Statement of Financial position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the parent company Balance our response: our audit procedures included a critical assessment of Sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: the extent to which the groups estimates are a balanced assessment the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the of the latest available information and the accuracy and reliability of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December sources of that information.
We considered the appropriateness of the 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: assumptions by reference to third party confirmations and legal advice, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in where available, and considered whether our understanding of the accordance with International Financial reporting Standards as business gained throughout the audit process corroborated the adopted by the european union IFrSs as adopted by the eu : provisions recorded, or indicated that further challenge was warranted.
the parent company financial statements have been properly We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of prepared in accordance with uK Accounting Standards: and provisions and contingent liabilities.
We also assessed whether the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with groups disclosures about provisions and the treatment of movements the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the on provisions in the income statement for the year were appropriate.
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Refer to page 60 Audit Committee report, page 108 accounting policy In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks note and pages 109, 115 and 143 financial disclosures of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were: the risk: the group is subject to income taxes in a large number Carrying value of Composites and Defence Systems C&DS goodwill of jurisdictions.
the level of current tax and deferred tax recognised and intangible assets 17.2 million requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made Refer to page 60 Audit Committee report, pages 111 and 112 accounting by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world policy note and pages 112 and 113 financial disclosures in which the group operates.
there is a risk that the groups judgments do not adequately reflect the latest available, reliable information or an the risk: the group has generated significant goodwill and intangible appropriate application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under assets on acquisitions whose recoverability is dependent on the ability or overstated as a result.
of the businesses to which it relates to generate sufficient future economic benefits.
there is a risk that this will not be the case which our response: our audit procedures included challenging the would result in an impairment being required.
the most significant risk appropriateness of the groups assumptions and estimates in relation of impairment relates to the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range of possible attributable to C&DS due to the reduction in demand from its amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements based traditional main customer, the uK Ministry of Defence.
on the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and the complexity of the relevant tax legislation.
We involved our tax specialists Impairment reviews are performed annually by the group, or whenever in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax there is an indication that the carrying values may not be supported.
provisions because they have relevant experience of the application the impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow projections of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and reflecting a number of assumptions and estimates which require courts.
We also assessed whether the groups tax disclosures are judgment and are inherently uncertain.
appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
our response: our audit procedures included tests of the controls designed and applied to provide assurance that the projected future economic benefits are sufficient to support goodwill and intangible asset carrying values.
our challenge of the key assumptions relating to operating cashflows during the projection period, long term growth rates and discount rates in the impairment calculations was based on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the groups impairment calculations and a comparison of the groups assumptions regarding key inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, cost inflation and discount rates to externally derived data as well as our own assessments.
We tested the principles and mathematical integrity of the groups discounted cash flow model and assessed the sensitivity of the impairment calculations to changes in the key assumptions.
We also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures relating to the goodwill and intangible asset including the impairment charge recognised in the period.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 90 GOvernAnCe GOvernAnCe 91 3.
O ur application of materiality and an overview of the 5. we have nothing to report in respect of the matters on scope of our audit which we are required to report by exception the materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at under ISAs uK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based 3.2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified before taxation, normalised to exclude this years impairment charge as other information in the annual report that contains a material disclosed in note 6 of 26.9 million, of which it represents 5%.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected In particular, we are required to report to you if: misstatements exceeding 0.16 million, in addition to other audit we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they reporting on qualitative grounds.
consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of the groups 92 reporting components, we subjected 40 to audits information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups for group reporting purposes and 18 to specified risk-focused audit performance, business model and strategy: or procedures.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by the report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address component auditors at the key reporting components in the following matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
countries: uK, uSA, China, germany, France, and Australia and by the group audit team in the uK.
In addition, specified audit procedures under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, were performed by component auditors in uSA and Brazil.
these in our opinion: procedures covered 88% of total group revenue: 88% of group profit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent before taxation: and 86% of total group assets.
the segment disclosures company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received in note 3 set out the individual significance of a specific country.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the the group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed agreement with the accounting records and returns: or above and the information to be reported back.
the group audit team certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1 million are not made: or to 3.2 million, having regard to the size and risk profile of each we have not received all the information and explanations we component.
the work on 57 of the 58 components was performed by require for our audit.
component auditors and the rest by the group audit team.
under the listing rules we are required to review: the group audit team visited the following locations: uK, uSA and the directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going Mexico.
telephone meetings were also held with the auditors and local concern: and management at these locations and the majority of the other locations the part of the Corporate governance Statement on page 50 that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and 2012 uK Corporate governance Code specified for our review.
any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
O ur opinion on other matters prescribed by the Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Statement Companies Act 2006 set out on pages 88 and 89, the directors are responsible for the In our opinion: preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accounts is provided on the Financial reporting Councils website at 2006: and www.
this report is made solely to the the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website is consistent with the financial statements.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
AnthOny SyKeS SenIor StAtutory AuDItor for and on behalf of KpMg llp, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square london, e14 5gl 12 February 2015 AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 93 Consolidated income statement 94 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Consolidated balance sheet 96 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Consolidated statement of cash flows 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 45 Company balance sheet 1 46 Notes to the Company balance sheet 1 55 Group statistical information 156 Cautionary statement 1 57 Glossary of terms 158 Shareholder information Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014
