Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group PLC Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: NationalExpress Group PLC the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and ofthe parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance withInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statement of Changes inEquity, the related notes 1 to 37 to the Group financial statements and the relatednotes 1 to 21 to the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Thefinancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of theparent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page52 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubton the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, thisstatement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as agoingconcern.
Our assessment of risks of materialmisstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The risk in respect of the recoverability of Spanish receivables has not been included in the current year given the significant and sustained improvement in cashcollections by the Spanish operations, against the backdrop of an improved economic climate in Spain.
We have included fuel hedging as a risk given the market volatility prior to year end which has significantly increased the fair value ofthese forward contracts.
Otherwise the risks are consistent with the prior year: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our procedures for challenging managements methodology and assumptions Impairment of goodwill and intangibleassets focused on the Groups interests in Spain and North America and included: This is included in note 2 as one of the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation assessing the appropriateness of any changes to assumptions since the uncertainty given there are a number of key assumptions priorperiod: used in the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill validating the integrity of the impairment models via reperformance of and intangible assets as described in note 13.
The most thecalculations: significant goodwill balances relate to the Spanish understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted cash division 665.1 million and the North American flow projections and challenging them with reference to historical forecasts, division 335.0 million.
The assumptions include actual performance and expected future changes to the business: futureprojectedcash flows, the perpetual growth working with our valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rates and  discount rate.
perpetuity growth rates applied to external macro-economic and market data: reviewing trading, including post period end trading, to verify that it supported the forecast cash flows used in the impairment testing: and assessing the appropriateness the disclosures included in the financial statements including the sensitivity analysis provided.
com 89 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Claims provisions We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the Given the claims provision of 39.3 million at valuation produced by the Groups actuary in North America, which is the territory 31December 2014 is inherently judgemental, it is with the largest potential exposures and most judgement, such as the loss includedin note 2 as one of the significant accounting development factor and discount rate, and to re-perform the actuarial calculation judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
We compared the level of provision recorded to the The measurement of the self-insured claims provision in range determined by the Groups actuary and our actuarial specialists to conclude North America uses actuarial assumptions and is based whether the level of provision was appropriate.
on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will bemade in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
Exceptional items A sample of exceptional items have been agreed to source documentation and Management is required to exercise judgement in order challenged by the divisional and Group audit teams as to their nature in order to toappropriately determine the items to be presented validate that they are significant non-recurring items which are appropriate to separately from normalised profit on the basis that they present as exceptional items with reference to the Financial Reporting Council are material and non-recurring in nature and therefore guidance issued in December 2013.
We have also considered the appropriateness disclosed as exceptional items.
The net exceptional of the associated narrative disclosure in respect of each type of exceptionalitem.
itemsbefore tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 asdetailed in note 5 are 50.3 million and are therefore significant to the statutory profit for the period.
Tax provisions We used our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax Judgement is required in relation to the value of the tax treatments based on their experience working with the revenue authorities, and provisions recorded in respect of a number of uncertain reviewed correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness tax positions which have not yet been agreed by the ofthe provisions made, including considering consistency and approach taxauthorities including ongoing tax audits in Spain tojudgements.
andcertain elements of the financing structures within theGroup.
Accordingly tax provisioning is included in note1 as one of the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
Pension deficit We reviewed the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the net pension liability The measurement of the Groups net pension liability of and our actuarial specialists performed a critical assessment of the key 11.9 million requires management to make judgements assumptions as described in note 33 with reference to comparable market data.
on assumptions including price inflation, discount rates, pension increases, mortality rates and earnings growth.
As explained in note 2, the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the Groups retirement benefitobligations.
Fuel hedging We have worked with our treasury accounting specialists to: It is the Groups policy to hedge fuel price fluctuations challenge the valuations of a sample of forward fuel hedge contracts inorder to provide short term costcertainty.
Due to bycalculating independent fair values: themarket volatility priorto year end and associated review the hedge documentation with reference to the requirements of IAS 39 significant fallin prices, the fair value of the liability in and best practice: and respect of the forward fuel hedge contracts has increased completed independent effectiveness testing for a sample of hedges.
from 0.8 million at 31 December 2013 to 71.3 million at31 December 2014.
The accounting policy is included in note 2 to the financial statements and accounting for fuel commodity contracts is an inherently complex area.
The volatility experienced prior to year end has further increased the risk given the increase in scale of thebalance and the complexity of the hedge effectivenesstesting.
90 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 55 and 56.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of ouraudit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8 million 2013: 9 million, which is 5.5% 2013: 6.3% of normalised pre-tax profit profit before exceptional items and amortisation, and 1% 2013: 1% of equity.
Normalised profit is one of the key metrics used both externally and internally as excluding exceptional items which are volatile, as well as amortisation costs, facilitates a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 2013: 180,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative rounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, our Group audit scope focused on the five operating divisions and the Group head office division, all of which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2014.
These six divisions account for 100% of the Groups total assets, revenue and operating profit.
Audits of these divisions are performed at lower levels of materiality determined by reference to the relative scale of the business division concerned andno higher than 5.2 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that hasbeen designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of theGroup audit team visits each of the six full scope divisions at least once a year.
Wealso include the component audit teams in our team briefing, discuss their riskassessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required toreport byexception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: andaccountingrecords we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
com 91 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part oftheDirectors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with theaccounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from thesematters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from ourreview.
Our duty to read other information in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to theAnnualReport report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directorsandauditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Thosestandards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in theAnnual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 26 February 2015 92 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
