ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEXT PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of NEXT Our assessment of risks of material plc for the year ended 25 January 2014 which comprise the misstatement Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement We consider that the following areas present the greatest of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to the allocation of resources and, the efforts of the engagement 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in team, including the more senior members of the team: their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The assessment of the directory debt provision: This report is made solely to the Companys members, The assessment of inventory provisions: as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the The assessment of underlying risk and valuation of, financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so instruments: and that we might state to the Companys members those matters The risk of misstatement arising from management override we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for of internal controls with regard to estimates and other no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do provisions relevant to the retail environment.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of Respective responsibilities of directors misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
and auditor For the purposes of determining whether the financial As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statements are free from material misstatement we define Statement set out on page 31, the directors are responsible materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes for the preparation of the Group financial statements and it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group would be changed or influenced.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
We also determine a lower level of performance materiality Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements Scope of the audit of the financial exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
statements When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free determined materiality for the Group to be 35 million, which is from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
approximately 5% of pre-exceptional pre-tax profit.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made judgement is that performance materiality for the Group by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial should be 50% of materiality, namely 17.5 million.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonapproach is designed to have a reasonable probability of financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected audit identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial differences does not exceed our materiality for the financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently statements as a whole.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.7 million, misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, for our report.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Retail and Directory business operations accounting for 95% of the Groups revenue and 93% of total segment profit were subject to a full scope audit.
The overseas Group purchasing division, Lipsy and Property Management contribute 5% of total segment profit and were subject to specific scope audits in areas where we assessed there was a risk of material misstatement.
For the remaining components of the Group, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
70 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 In view of the nature of the main risk areas noted above, the Opinion on other matters prescribed by Group audit team is supported by experts in auditing the the Companies Act 2006 financial instruments and their valuation.
In our opinion: The principal way in which we scoped our response to the risks the information given in the Strategic Report and the noted above was as follows: Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the We checked managements categorisation of the debtor Group financial statements.
book based on payment in accordance with agreed terms.
We challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions in determining managements provision for Matters on which we are required to future default, being the Groups assumed default rates report by exception which represent the likelihood of eventual default for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: debt within each category, and expected recovery rates on such debts, in combination with evidence of historical Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to default and recovery rates, current performance, and any you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: observed changes in debtor profile in the current period.
We checked the arithmetical accuracy of the provision materially inconsistent with the information in the audited based on managements assumptions and compared financial statements: or the underlying debtor book categorisation to the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial accounting system and the mapping of external inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in affordability data.
the course of performing our audit: or The adequacy of the inventory provision depends on the is otherwise misleading.
level of stock on hand which is expected to be sold below cost plus attributable selling costs.
We examined the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Groups historical trading patterns of stock sold at full price, identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge stock marked down below full price in a sale period, and acquired during the audit and the directors statement the element of inventory that is passed to clearance: along that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and with the related margins achieved for each of these sales understandable and whether the annual report appropriately channels.
We then challenged the reasonableness of the discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit inventory provision taking into account a combination of committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
the evidence of these historical trading patterns and any observed changes to the current year buying cycle.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We determined the different types of financial instruments held by the Group and the level of risk inherent in each certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by of the transaction types.
We analysed the features of a law are not made: or selected sample of financial instruments by comparison to the originating contractual agreements.
With our experts we have not received all the information and explanations we challenged the reasonableness of the valuation of the we require for our audit.
selected sample where the Groups valuation was outside Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: a reasonable tolerance of our own expectations.
We performed analytical procedures and journal entry the directors statement, set out on page 37, in relation to testing in order to identify and test the risk of misstatement going concern: and arising from management override of controls, which in the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to addition to the risks disclosed above, focused on accruals the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the and provisions of a judgemental nature capable of being UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
These comprised of accruals for sales returns, gift card exposure, share based payments and LTIP arrangements: along with provisions Other matter for dilapidations, onerous leases and vacant leasehold We have reported separately on the parent company properties.
financial statements of NEXT plc for the year ended 25 January 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 25 January 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Nigel Meredith Regulation.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Next plc website is the responsibility of the Birmingham directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 20 March 2014 of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 71 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
