Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements In this section: 87 Independent Auditors Report to the members of NMC Health plc Financial 91 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 92 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 93 Consolidated Statement of Changes Statements in Equity 94 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 125 Statement of Financial Position 126 Statement of Changes in Equity 127 Statement of Cash Flows 128 Notes to the Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NMC HEALTH PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the related notes 1 to 15.
The financial SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE In our opinion: reporting framework that has been FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the financial statements give a true applied in their preparation is applicable An audit involves obtaining evidence and fair view of the state of the law and International Financial Reporting about the amounts and disclosures in groups and of the parent companys Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the financial statements sufficient to give affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of European Union and, as regards the reasonable assurance that the financial the groups profit for the year then parent company financial statements, as statements are free from material ended: applied in accordance with the provisions misstatement, whether caused by fraud the group financial statements have of the Companies Act 2006. or error.
This includes an assessment of: been properly prepared in accordance whether the accounting policies are with IFRSs as adopted by the This report is made solely to the appropriate to the groups and the parent European Union: and companys members, as a body, in companys circumstances and have the parent company financial accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of been consistently applied and adequately statements have been properly prepared the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work disclosed: the reasonableness of in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by has been undertaken so that we might significant accounting estimates made the European Union and as applied in state to the companys members those by the directors: and the overall accordance with the provisions of the matters we are required to state to them presentation of the financial statements.
Companies Act 2006: and in an auditors report and for no other In addition, we read all the financial and the financial statements have been purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted non-financial information in the Annual prepared in accordance with the by law, we do not accept or assume Report to identify material inconsistencies requirements of the Companies Act responsibility to anyone other than the with the audited financial statements 2006 and, as regards the group company and the companys members and to identify any information that is financial statements, Article 4 of the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, apparently materially incorrect based on, IAS Regulation.
or for the opinions we have formed.
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES of performing the audit.
If we become We have audited the financial OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR aware of any apparent material statements of NMC Health plc for the As explained more fully in the Directors misstatements or inconsistencies we year ended 31 December 2014 which Responsibilities Statement set out on consider the implications for our report.
comprise in respect of the group financial page 48, the directors are responsible statements: the consolidated statement for the preparation of the financial of comprehensive income, the statements and for being satisfied that consolidated statement of financial they give a true and fair view.
Our position, the consolidated statement of responsibility is to audit and express changes in equity, the consolidated an opinion on the financial statements statement of cash flows and the related in accordance with applicable law and notes 1 to 34, and which comprise in International Standards on Auditing respect of the parent company financial UK and Ireland.
Those standards require statements: the Statement of Financial us to comply with the Auditing Practices Position, the Statement of Changes in Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows, NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 87 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Our assessment of risk of material misstatement and response to that risk The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team, together with our audit response to the risk: Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk The valuation of trade receivables as described on page 56 of We performed the following audit procedures around the the Report of the Audit Committee valuation of trade receivables: The most significant revenue streams of the Group are We challenged management on the significant estimation healthcare services and distribution sales.
The vast majority and subjectivity involved in the appropriateness of provisions of healthcare customers settle their invoices through medical for bad debts which included obtaining evidence to support the insurance claims, therefore payments to the Group can be recoverability of the older un-provided debts.
delayed due to the time taken to process claims through the insurance companies.
Furthermore, the Group experiences We obtained direct external confirmations for a sample of delays in payment for bulk retail sales from key customers.
customer receivable balances and we vouched post year end This can result in a high level of aged outstanding receivables cash receipts for a sample of year-end trade receivable balances.
balances and therefore an increased risk of non-recoverability and inadequate bad debt provisioning.
No significant issues were noted from our work.
Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue We performed the following audit procedures around revenue recognition and the determination of whether the Group is recognition: acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal as described on page 56 of the Report of the Audit Committee.
We relied upon testing performed by internal audit relating to controls over revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue The Group has a number of revenue streams relating to its recognition.
Healthcare and Distribution segments including clinic revenues, insurance claims, over-the-counter sales, pharmacy sales and We performed analytical review procedures and performed sales of goods.
There is a risk of improper revenue recognition cut-off testing procedures by selecting a sample of transactions given the diversity of the Groups healthcare operations, either side of year-end to check that revenue had been particularly with regard to cut-off at period end dates.
There recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
is also a risk of improper revenue recognition in the distribution business with regard to cut-off at period end dates.
We tested a sample of new distribution agreements entered into Furthermore, there is a risk that distribution agreements with during the year to verify that the Groups determination that they key suppliers indicate that the Group may be acting in the are acting as a principal rather than an agent is appropriate.
capacity of an agent rather than principal.
We checked the Groups adherence to their revenue recognition policies, including their determination of whether the Group is acting as an agent rather than as a principal, to agree that these policies are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
88 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements Risk How the scope of our audit addressed the risk The capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress as We performed the following audit procedures around the described on page 56 of the Report of the Audit Committee capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress CWIP : Given the quantum of costs being incurred on capital work in We verified that the Groups capitalisation policies, including progress CWIP there is a risk that incorrect cost capitalisation relating to the capitalisation of internal salary costs, lease costs may occur and that, consequently, CWIP may be overstated.
and interest costs, are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applied appropriately.
We vouched the majority of additions to CWIP in the year to supporting documentation to check that the costs met the criteria for capitalisation into work in progress in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We obtain evidence of independent third party surveyors approval of construction costs incurred to date on capital projects.
We undertook site visits of major capital projects completed in the year or still in progress as at 31 December 2014.
We also held discussions with the project managers on major capital projects and undertook a comparison of actual capital work in progress spend to budget.
We also performed audit procedures to verify that completed capital projects were transferred to the appropriate property, plant and equipment category and depreciation commenced at the correct point in time.
Our application of materiality determined materiality for the Group to million 2013: $1.80 million.
Our objective We apply the concept of materiality be $3.35 million 2013: $3.60 million, which in adopting this approach was to ensure both in planning and performing our was approximately 5% of profit before tax that total detected and undetected audit audit, and in evaluating the effect of 2013: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Last differences in all accounts did not exceed misstatements on our audit and on the year we used adjusted profit before tax our materiality level.
For the purposes to exclude the non-recurring write-off of of determining whether the financial unamortised finance fees resulting from Audit work at individual components statements are free from material the refinance of loan facilities in that year.
is undertaken based on a percentage misstatement, we define materiality This provided a basis for determining of our total performance materiality.
as the magnitude of an omission or the nature, timing and extent of risk The performance materiality set for each misstatement that, individually or in the assessment procedures, identifying component is based on the relative size aggregate, in light of the surrounding and assessing the risk of material of the component and our view of the circumstances, could reasonably be misstatement and determining the risk of misstatement at that component.
expected to influence the economic nature, timing and extent of further audit In the current year the range of performance decisions of the users of the financial procedures.
During the course of our materiality allocated to components was statements.
We also determine a level of audit, the actual profit before tax figure $0.34 million to $1.18 million.
performance materiality which we use to was higher than that which we had used determine the extent of testing needed as the basis for determining materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level and as a result we revised our materiality the probability that the aggregate threshold to $3.88 million, which is of uncorrected and undetected approximately 5% of profit before tax.
misstatements exceeds materiality for On the basis of our risk assessments, the financial statements as a whole.
together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our When establishing our overall audit judgement was that overall performance strategy, we determined a magnitude materiality ie: our tolerance for of uncorrected misstatements that we misstatement in an individual account judged would be material for the financial or balance for the Group should be 50% statements as a whole.
We initially 2013: 50% of materiality, namely $1.94 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 89 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED We agreed with the Audit Committee OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS certain disclosures of directors that we would report to the Audit PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES remuneration specified by law Committee all audit differences in excess ACT 2006 are not made: or of $0.17 million 2013: $0.16 million as well In our opinion: we have not received all the as differences below that threshold that, the part of the Directors information and explanations in our view, warranted reporting on Remuneration Report to be audited we require for our audit.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Under the Listing Rules we are required An overview of the scope of our audit 2006: and to review: Following our assessment of the risk the information given in the Strategic the directors statement, set out on of material misstatement to the Group Report and the Directors Report for the page 47, in relation to going concern: financial statements we selected ten financial year for which the financial and components which represent the statements are prepared is consistent the part of the Corporate Governance principal business units within the Groups with the financial statements.
Statement relating to the companys two reportable segments and which compliance with the nine provisions account for 100% of the groups profit MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED of the UK Corporate Governance Code before tax and 95% of the groups total TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION specified for our review.
Six of these components were We have nothing to report in respect subject to a full audit, whilst four of the following: components were subject to a partial Cameron Cartmell audit where the extent of audit work Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are Senior statutory auditor was based on our assessment of the required to report to you if, in our opinion, for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, risks of material misstatement and information in the annual report is: Statutory Auditor the materiality of the Groups business materially inconsistent with the London operations at those components.
information in the audited financial 23 February 2015 They were also selected to provide an statements: or appropriate basis for undertaking audit apparently materially incorrect based Notes: work to address the risks of material on, or materially inconsistent with, our 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the NMC Health plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the misstatement identified above.
For knowledge of the Group acquired in work carried out by the auditors does not involve the remaining five components, we the course of performing our audit: or consideration performed other procedures to confirm is otherwise misleading.
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors there were no significant risks of accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since material misstatement in the Group In particular, we are required to consider they were initially presented on the web site.
whether we have identified any 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the inconsistencies between our knowledge preparation and dissemination of financial The audit work at the ten components acquired during the audit and the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the statutory audits were executed directors statement that they consider at levels of materiality applicable to each the annual report is fair, balanced and individual entity which were much lower understandable and whether the annual than Group materiality.
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Given that the Group operates solely audit committee which we consider in the United Arab Emirates the Senior should have been disclosed.
Statutory Auditor or members of the Group audit team visited the United Arab Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Emirates four times during the current required to report to you if, in our opinion: year audit process.
The Group audit team adequate accounting records have not interacted regularly with the component been kept by the parent company, or team in the United Arab Emirates where returns adequate for our audit have appropriate during the various stages of not been received from branches not the audit, reviewed key working papers visited by us: or and took responsibility for the scope and the parent company financial direction of the audit process.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 90 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
