Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc Opinion on financial statements of Northgate plc Statements, the Notes to the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company In our opinion: Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied the financial statements give a true and fair view of the in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as by the European Union and, as regards the parent company at 30 April 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then financial statements, as applied in accordance with the ended: provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Going concern Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the parent company financial statements have been directors statement contained within the strategic report on properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by page 27 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the European Union and as applied in accordance with the we have concluded that the directors use of the going provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance financial statements is appropriate: and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as we have not identified any material uncertainties that may regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income However, because not all future events or conditions can be Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statement of predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company ability to continue as a going concern.
Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow 58 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 58 15 07 2014 12:59 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determining appropriate depreciation rates for vehicles We reviewed the underlying assumptions used in the available for hire calculation of expected future market values for each category of hire vehicle by comparison to external third party data This requires an estimate to be made of the sales proceeds for expected future market prices and likely vehicle disposal at the time of disposal.
Determining likely sales proceeds for volumes, including CAP valuations.
future vehicle disposals is judgemental and requires estimates to be made of future vehicle market values.
We performed detailed testing of the calculations supporting these judgements, including comparison to recent actual market prices achieved for vehicle disposals of similar vehicles.
The recoverability of aged trade receivables We evaluated that provisions were calculated in accordance with group policy.
Determining the appropriate levels of provision for irrecoverable trade receivables requires judgement relating To assess the reasonableness of provisions recorded we to the assessment across a large number of customers of the reviewed the levels of post year end cash collections against likely levels of recovery of these receivables.
year end trade receivables and investigated the significant individual overdue balances by reference to recent history of recoveries on these balances and review of correspondence with the customers.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out in the report of the Audit and Risk committee.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at two We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement locations, in Darlington and Madrid, which represent all of in the financial statements that makes it probable that the the groups principal trading activities.
The group audit team, economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person led by the senior statutory auditor, perform the audit work would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in at the head office and centralised UK finance function in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the Darlington and an audit team from Deloitte in Spain perform results of our work.
the audit work at the Spanish head office in Madrid.
We determined materiality for the group to be 3.6 million, The operations at these two locations were subject to a full which is 7% of pre-tax profit, and below 1% of equity.
audit and represent the principal business units of the group, We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report accounting for 99% of the groups net assets, the groups to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 72,000, revenue and the groups profit before tax.
They were also as well as differences below that threshold which, in our selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also audit work to address the risks of material misstatement report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that identified above.
Our audit work at these two locations was we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual financial statements.
entity which were lower than group materiality.
The other components of the group, in Ireland and Malta, are not significant to the group audit but were subject to full scope An overview of the scope of our audit audits at levels of materiality applicable to each individual Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding entity, for local statutory purposes.
of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement 59 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Independent auditors accounts 2014 report c109372.
indb 59 15 07 2014 12:59 Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc continued At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report conclusion that there were no significant risks of material arising from our review.
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of Our duty to read other information in the specified account balances.
Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and The group audit team continue to follow a programme of Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior information in the annual report is: Statutory Auditor visits the significant component in Spain at least annually.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Act 2006 inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in In our opinion: the course of performing our audit: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be otherwise misleading.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge the information given in the Strategic Report and the acquired during the audit and the directors statement Directors Report for the financial year for which the that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and financial statements are prepared is consistent with the understandable and whether the annual report appropriately financial statements.
discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been Matters on which we are required to report by disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such exception inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor records As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation you if, in our opinion: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and we require for our audit: or express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing adequate accounting records have not been kept by the UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for been received from branches not visited by us: or Auditors.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood the parent company financial statements are not in and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our agreement with the accounting records and returns.
dedicated professional standards review team, strategically We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the companys members, as Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken remuneration have not been made or the part of the so that we might state to the companys members those Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in matters we are required to state to them in an auditors agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent have nothing to report arising from these matters.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys Corporate Governance Statement members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the the opinions we have formed.
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 60 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 60 15 07 2014 12:59 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Powell FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, United Kingdom 24 June 2014 61 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Independent auditors accounts 2014 report c109372.
