Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated Independent Auditors report to the members financial statements Company financial of Ophir Energy plc statements We have audited the financial statements of Ophir Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for the Parent Company as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality Materiality Overall Group materiality of $34 million which represents 2% of Total Equity We have used total equity of the Group as the basis for our materiality calculation as we concluded that total equity is the most closely monitored financial measure for the stakeholders of Ophir Energy plc.
Typically we would expect to focus on an income statement based measure such as profit before tax when calculating materiality.
However, for an exploration company such as Ophir Energy plc, where minimal or no revenues are generated, we concluded that income statement based measures are less relevant where stakeholder value is primarily generated through discovering commercial hydrocarbons.
Hence we have concluded that total equity provides the most appropriate financial measure that is responsive to the main value driver for the shareholders of Ophir Energy plc.
Having identified a relevant basis for materiality, we calculated the planning materiality for the Group to be $34 million 2013: $35 million, which is 2% 2013: 2% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% 2013: 50% of materiality, namely $17 million 2013: $18 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.7 million 2013: $1.8 million.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued The scope of our audit Our audit is risk based and is designed to focus our efforts on the areas at greatest risk of material misstatement, aspects subject to significant management judgement as well as greatest complexity, risk and size.
In scoping the audit, and with reference to the management and control structure employed by Ophir Energy plc, we concluded that the there is one full scope audit component located in London which represents the entire group and has been audited from London.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team: Principal risk area and rationale Audit response The carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets.
The carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets can We have challenged managements assessment of the carrying value be subjective based on the Groups ability, and intention, of exploration and evaluation assets.
In particular we challenged to continue to explore the asset.
The carrying value may also Ophir Energy plcs: be impacted by the results of exploration work indicating that right to explore in the relevant exploration licence which included obtaining the exploration and evaluation asset may not hold hydrocarbons and reviewing supporting documentation such as licence agreements and that are commercially viable for extraction.
This creates a risk or correspondence with relevant government agencies: that the amount may be overstated in the financial statements.
intention to carry out exploration and evaluation activity in the relevant exploration area which included the review of managements cash-flow Refer to Note 10 Exploration and evaluation assets in the notes forecast models, discussions with senior management and Directors as to the financial statements for the amounts held on the sheet by to the intentions and strategy of the Group: the Group as at 31 December 2014. carrying value of intangible assets where recent exploration activity in a given exploration licence provides negative indicators as to the recoverability of other intangible costs that remain capitalised: commercial viability of results of exploration and evaluation activities carried out in the relevant licence area: and ability to finance any planned future exploration and evaluation activity.
This also links to the audit procedures performed related to Going concern see below.
We have also assessed the capabilities of managements experts and or use of third party experts engaged for the purposes of assessing the potential resources associated with those exploration and evaluation assets.
Going concern Due to Ophir being an exploration company and having no ongoing We have challenged managements going concern model including the revenue stream, it may not be able to continue as a going concern if liquidity position at the year end and the projected cash flows.
We assessed it is unable to raise additional funds from other sources such as selling and challenged the accuracy of exploration and evaluation expenditure assets or raising funds from capital markets.
commitments, the anticipated uses of funding, including any actual or planned reduction of debt, with particular reference to the acquisition of Salamander We have therefore considered that the conclusion on whether the Energy plc on 3 March 2015, and projected administration overhead costs Group represents a going concern continues to be a significant risk disclosed in managements model.
We have challenged the consistency of the of material misstatement.
assumptions included within the going concern model with the statements related to future plans and commitments contained within the Annual Report Refer to Note 2 in the notes to the financial statements for the basis and Accounts.
of preparation and the Directors Report for their assessment of going concern.
Management override of controls Due to the number of significant accounting estimates and judgements We assessed whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors and senior that are relevant to the financial statements, with reference to the management in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant carrying value of the Companys exploration and evaluation assets, to the financial statements.
we have concluded that there is a risk that management may We tested manual and automated journal entries and included a selection manipulate accounting records.
of journals, with a focus on those journal entries that may impact the carrying value of the exploration and evaluation assets, related to other We have therefore concluded that there is a risk that significant risks identified as part of our audit engagement.
management may override controls that otherwise appear In addition, as part of our audit procedures to address this fraud risk, we assessed to be operating effectively.
the overall control environment, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow, and interviewed senior management and Ophirs internal audit function to understand whether there had been any reported actual or alleged instances of fraudulent activity during the year.
96 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 68, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Paul Wallek Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 18 March 2015 Notes: 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Ophir Energy plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
