Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Oxford Instruments plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Oxford Instruments plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 70 to 122.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition in the Nanotechnology Tools segment Revenue: 180.5m, Adjusted operating profit: 21.2m Refer to page 41 Audit committee report, page 70 accounting policy and pages 85 to 114 financial disclosures Risk There is a risk that revenue is recognised on sales of individual products produced by the Groups Nanotechnology Tools segment before thesignificant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is because these products require considerable technical expertise to manufacture, they can be of individually high value, and customer specifications vary.
As such there is a risk that particular terms of sale may not be met and, asa result, revenue may be recognised in the incorrect period.
Consequently this is one of the key areas our audit is focused on.
Our response Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, assessing the effectiveness of internal controls and policies regarding the recognition of revenue such as matching a sample of sales invoices recognised to sales orders and dispatch notes.
We also tested, on a sample basis, whether specific revenue transactions around the year end had been recognised in the appropriate period on the basis of the terms of sale within sales contracts or orders with reference to the Groups accounting policies.
We considered whether a sample of credit notes issued after the year end should reduce revenue in the period and challenged those that were not recorded by obtaining evidence and rationale for significant reversals.
We also assessed, and discussed with business unit management, the ageing and post year end realisation of accrued income, customer deposits and installation balances with respect to the agreed terms of sale, any of which may indicate the associated revenue has been recognised too soon or too late.
In addition we assessed whether there was any evidence of management bias by forming an expectation of the current year revenue profile, with reference to historical trends, and comparing to actual.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue and the related estimates and judgements in the financial statements see section e of Accounting Policies.
Recoverability of acquired intangible assets 232.9m Refer to page 41 Audit committee report, page 70 accounting policy and pages 85 to 114 financial disclosures Risk The Group balance sheet includes a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets that have arisen as a result of acquisitions, both in the current year and historically.
There is a risk that below forecast performance of the business, or the cash generating unit, to which the assets are allocated will result in impairment.
This could be due to weaker than forecast demand, product obsolescence, or other factors, and is particularly the case in the current year in respect of Omicron Nanoscience, which is carried at the directors estimate of recoverable amount following the recognition of an impairment to goodwill of 0.4m and an impairment to other intangibles of 2.2m.
Furthermore, there is inherent uncertainty and complexity involved in estimating future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates that are the basis for the assessment of recoverability and, as such, this is one of the key judgement areas our audit is focused on.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, among others, performing our own assessments of the key estimates and assumptions used to estimate recoverable amount such as forecast cash flows, long term growth rates and the discount rate applied with reference to externally and internally derived data including, but not limited to, industry growth rates, historical performance of similar lines of business and market interest rates.
We compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the value derived from the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We recalculated and assessed the impairment applied to assets in respect of Omicon Nanoscience.
We also performed sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions and considered whether the Groups disclosures regarding the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets appropriately reflected the sensitivity, headroom and assumptions made in preparing the valuations.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 67 www.
com Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Oxford Instruments plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Valuation of acquired intangible assets 172.6m Refer to page 41 Audit committee report, page 70 accounting policy and pages 85 to 114 financial disclosures Risk During the year the Group completed the acquisition of Andor Technology plc and two smaller companies.
For each acquisition the consideration was allocated to the identifiable intangible assets, tangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities with the positive balance remaining being recognised as goodwill.
The identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets involved estimating future cash flows, growth and discount rates and, as such, this is one of the key judgement areas our audit focused on.
Our response Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, assessing the independence, objectivity and competence of the external expert engaged by the Group to value intangible assets recognised as a result of the Andor Technology plc acquisition by considering, among other matters, their professional qualifications and the terms of their engagement.
We tested the principles and integrity of the valuation model used and assessing whether the key assumptions underlying the valuations were appropriate, taking into account our experience of similar assets acquired in other comparable situations.
We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group.
Completeness of provisions in respect of product related claims Refer to page 41 Audit committee report, page 70 accounting policy and pages 85 to 114 financial disclosures Risk The Group designs and builds customised, high technology products, notably in the NanoTechnology Tools segment, and as such there isarisk that products are subject to customer claims in respect of deficiencies in design or performance.
In addition, since the Groups products incorporate specific design features and intellectual property that are critical to ensuring the product meets its marketed, or customer specific, performance specifications, there is a risk that the Group inadvertently infringes the intellectual property belonging third parties.
This could result in a material unrecorded, or understated, provision for compensation required to be paid to customers or third parties respectively, or alternatively for the cost of rectification, should the Group be required to recall or rework previously supplied products.
Our response Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, making enquiries of relevant business unit management regarding the existence of any previously unidentified product related claims and inspecting the Groups litigation register for any ongoing or potential patent litigation.
Where product related claims arise, or are brought forward from previous periods, we consider the specific circumstances by inspecting correspondence between the Group and other parties, such as legal advisors, and challenge the reasonableness of the key assumptions made by management to our own expectations based on our historical knowledge, experience, and understanding.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at any provision.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 2.1m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 6.5% of group profit before tax adjusted for: the reversal of acquisition related fair value adjustments to inventory: the settlement loss on US pension scheme: the acquisition related costs: the unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration: and the mark-to-market gain as disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements, or 8.8% of group profit before tax.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it: separately each corrected or uncorrected misstatement we identified through our audit with avalue in excess of 1.6m: other audit misstatements below 1.6m that we believe warranted separate reporting on qualitative grounds: and the aggregate of other corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in excess of 0.1m but less than 1.6m.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed at the key reporting components in the following countries: Japan: Germany: China: and Finland, and by the Group audit team in the following countries: the United Kingdom: and the United States of America.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors in Japan and by the group audit team in the United Kingdom and the United States ofAmerica.
These group procedures covered 97% of total group revenue: 91% of group profit before taxation: and 99% of total group assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels agreed with the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.01m to 1.9m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The group audit team visited the following locations: the United Kingdom: Germany: and the United States of America.
68 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 33 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should beread to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Simon Haydn-Jones Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 10 June 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 69
