Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Pace plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Pace Plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 50 to 88.
In our opinion: R the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 andofthe groups profit for the year then ended: R the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted bytheEuropean Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : R the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and R the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Revenue recognition $2,620.0m Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 60 accounting policy and pages 64 to 65 financial disclosures.
R The risk On occasion, the Group contracts to sell hardware, software and services within a single arrangement.
Accounting for these arrangements can be complex as the total contract value is allocated to each identified component on a relative fair value basis and recognised as revenue as the related goods or services are delivered.
The identification of components and the allocation and recognition of revenue relating to components is a key area of judgement for our audit.
R Our response Our audit procedures included, testing authorisation controls relating to the identification and approval of significant contracts, the identification of components within those contracts, the allocation of revenue to components and the recognition of revenue for those components.
We read significant new contracts entered into during the year to understand the contractual terms and to make our own assessment of the components identified by the Group.
We assessed allocation of revenue for significant new contracts, on a relative fair value basis, to identified components of contracts through corroboration of contractual milestones, agreement, on a sample basis, of costs incurred to date and analysis of revenue and margins.
As part of our assessment of amounts recognised as revenue in the period we recalculated the deferred revenue balance at the balance sheet date.
Royalty under negotiation provisions $49.9m Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 62 accounting policy and page 80 financial disclosures.
R The risk The Groups products incorporate third party technology.
Due to the complexity of intellectual property rights arrangements the Group is exposed to the risk of infringement of third party rights.
Potential claims can be submitted many years after a product has been deployed and extensive negotiation is commonplace.
Determining whether to recognise a provision, and the amount of the provision to be recognised, requires the Group to make judgements and estimates that are inherently subjective.
R Our response Having discussed the significant claims with the Groups in-house patent expert and legal team, our audit procedures included considering the extent to which the Directors estimates take into account a balanced assessment of the latest available information on the ongoing claims at the balance sheet date, and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
For the most significant claims, we also make enquiries of the Groups external legal advisors.
We read correspondence between the Group and individual claimants.
We read information published by claimants, such as press releases, highlighting their successes against other parties, as part of our assessment of the strength of the claimants case.
We considered the Groups historical experience in assessing the level of provision required by comparing actual outcomes from previous claims to provisions made.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of royalty provisions.
Capitalised development costs $85.0m Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 59 accounting policy and pages 69 and 70 financial disclosures.
R The risk The Group conducts a significant level of development activity.
The Group has to apply judgement in identifying projects meeting the criteria for capitalisation under the requirements of accounting standards and to capture accurate time and costs information for those projects.
There is a risk that capitalisation occurs on projects that do not meet the criteria, that incorrect amounts are allocated to projects or that projects are not as successful as initially anticipated leading to overcapitalisation and the need for impairment.
R Our response Our audit procedures included testing controls over the authorisation of new development projects and the monthly monitoring of ongoing development projects.
We agreed costs assigned to a sample of larger value projects to time recorded or to invoices and considered the reasonableness of labour rates used.
As part of our assessment of the benefits expected to be generated for the Group from these projects, which is a key factor in determining whether capitalisation is appropriate, we considered the Groups project margin forecasts.
We assessed the appropriateness of key inputs, such as the value and timing of sales by reference to our knowledge of the Groups business, our experience of the industry, and consideration of publicly available information, such as press releases.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of development costs.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report To the members of Pace plc only continued Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Business combinations goodwill additions of $141.7m, other intangible additions of $138.0m Refer to page 33 Audit Committee Report, page 58 accounting policy and page 88 financial disclosures.
R The risk The Group acquired Aurora Networks during the current financial year.
The acquired intangible assets of technology and customer relationships are valued using discounted cash flows methods.
In applying the methodologies, the Group makes a number of key assumptions and estimates relating to each class of intangible asset, including: growth and attrition rates, discount rates and product life cycles.
The identification and valuation of acquired intangibles requires judgement and is sensitive to the assumptions used.
Amounts not allocated to acquired assets, including acquired intangible assets, are allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is not amortised and affects the income statement only on a future impairment.
We considered the estimation of the fair value of Aurora Networks inventories to be a significant audit risk, due to the inherent judgement involved in estimating the fair value, their materiality and ageing.
R Our response Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, an assessment of the competency of the external experts used by theGroup to value significant acquired intangibles.
We used our own valuation specialists to challenge and corroborate using our experience, market data and information from similar transactions, the process for identifying intangible assets and to consider the methodology and assumptions used to determine the present value of cash-flow projections.
With respect to the valuation of inventories, we critically assessed the methodology used by the Group to calculate the fair value adjustment.
Our testing included: physical stock-take attendances, recalculation of ageing reports and sample testing of inventories to post acquisition date sales invoices.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $10.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of $175.7m, of which it represents 6%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $0.5m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 26 reporting components, we subjected 6 to audits for group reporting purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number of components Group revenue % Group profit before tax % Group total assets % Audits for group reporting purposes 6 94 96 97 Remaining components 20 6 4 3 Total 26 100 100 100 The remaining components, none of which individually represented more than 2% of Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets, were subject to analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $4.0m to $10.0m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 4 of the 6 was performed by component auditors, and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited 2 component locations in the UK and the USA, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Physical meetings, video conferences or conference calls were also held with all component auditors that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
48 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: R the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and R the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and R information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 28 to 30 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: R we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or R the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: R adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or R the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or R certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or R we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or R a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: R the directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern: and R the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 30 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions ofthe2012UKCorporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 45 and 46, the directors are responsible for the preparation  and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding ofthe purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW 3 March 2015 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
