114 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Report on the financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our opinion In our opinion: what we have audited Pearson plcs financial statements comprise: Pearson plcs consolidated financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements The consolidated and company balance sheets as at give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of 31 December 2014 the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the The consolidated income statement and consolidated Groups profit and the Groups and the companys cash statement of comprehensive income for the year flows for the year then ended then ended The consolidated financial statements have been The consolidated and company statements of changes in properly prepared in accordance with International equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other The company financial statements have been properly explanatory information.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the Certain required disclosures have been presented provisions of the Companies Act 2006 elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts the Annual report rather than in the notes to the financial The financial statements have been prepared in statements.
These are cross-referenced from the accordance with the requirements of the Companies financial statements and are identified as audited.
Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European the IASB Union and, as regards the company financial statements, As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the Companies Act 2006.
European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Our audit approach Overview O verall Group materiality: 26m, which represents 4% of adjusted profit before tax as disclosed in note 8.
Refer to page 119 for further details.
W e conducted work in five key territories: US, UK, Brazil, China and South Africa.
In addition we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information Materiality reported by the associate Penguin Random House PRH T he territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions, shared service centres and consolidated Group level, accounted for approximately: 68% of the Groups revenue: 74% Audit scope of the Groups statutory profit before tax: and 65% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
W e focused on: Revenue recognition for multiple element and long-term revenue contracts Areas of Goodwill and intangible assets impairment reviews focus Provision for uncertain tax liabilities Returns provisions Recoverability of pre-publication assets and inventories Acquisitions and disposals.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 115 the scope of our audit and our areas of focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest We conducted our audit in accordance with effect on our audit, including the allocation of our International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to We designed our audit by determining materiality provide an opinion on the consolidated and company and assessing the risks of material misstatement in financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we the consolidated and company financial statements.
make on the results of our procedures should be read In particular, we looked at where management made in this context.
For each area of focus below, to the subjective judgements, for example in respect of extent relevant, we evaluated the design and tested the significant accounting estimates that involved making operating effectiveness of key internal controls over assumptions and considering future events that are financial reporting set in place by management, including inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also testing the operation of IT systems from which financial addressed the risk of management override of internal information is generated.
Each of the areas of focus controls, including evaluating whether there was below are also referred to in the audit committee evidence of bias that represented a risk of material report on pages 74 to 75 and in the accounting policies misstatement due to fraud.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition for multiple element and long-term revenue contracts Refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial Where books are sold together with workbooks statements There are two types of complex contracts delivered later or companion digital materials available that require significant judgements and estimates, online we assessed the basis for allocation of the which could be subject to either accidental errors purchase price between each element and then tested or deliberate fraud: the detailed calculations supporting these revenue deferrals.
We used our knowledge of the Group and its Multiple element arrangements, such as the sale of industry to assess the completeness of identification of physical textbooks accompanied by digital content such arrangements.
We found the revenue deferrals or supplementary workbooks, where revenue is to be based on reasonable estimates of the relative recognised for each element as if it were an individual fair value of each element and the methods used contractual arrangement requiring the estimation of to calculate the deferrals properly calculated and its fair value consistently applied.
Certain long-term contracts that span year end, where For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and revenue is recognised using estimated percentage of more recent long-term contacts, covering both testing completion based on costs.
These include contracts to activities and online delivery of teaching, we read the design, develop and deliver testing and accreditation contracts and assessed the accounting policy and and contracts to secure students and support the methodologies being applied to calculate the proportion online delivery of their teaching.
We also tested costs These complex contracts generate material deferred incurred to date and managements estimates of revenue and accrued income balances and are areas forecast costs and revenues by reference to historical where misstatements in the underlying assumptions or experience and current contract status, including estimation calculations could have a material effect on examining correspondence where contracts are the financial statements.
Our testing showed that revenue recognition practices are in accordance with Group policies with appropriate methods for calculating the revenue recognised.
116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment reviews Refer to note 11 to the consolidated financial We evaluated and challenged managements statements At year end the Group has 5,030m of identification and aggregation of CGUs in light of the new goodwill and 1,280m of other intangible assets Group structure and tested the allocation of goodwill including software, acquired customer lists, contracts to these aggregated CGUs.
In our view managements and relationships, acquired trademarks and brands and decision to disaggregate the Growth segment into its acquired publishing rights.
main constituent countries appropriately reflects the relative independence of these operations.
For the The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are aggregated CGUs in North America and Core markets, contingent on future cash flows and there is risk that, if management demonstrated reasonable bases for the these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations, aggregations, reflecting their relatively high levels of the assets might be impaired.
The impairment reviews integration and synergies.
performed by management contain a number of significant judgements and estimates including cash We tested the mathematical integrity of the forecasts generating unit CGU identification, revenue growth, and carrying values in managements impairment model.
profit margins and discount rate.
We obtained board approved cash flow forecasts to agree them to managements impairment analysis and As part of the Group restructuring during the year, challenged key judgements and estimates within them.
management identified a new set of aggregated CGUs We assessed the discount rates applied to each and reallocated goodwill accordingly.
These changes aggregated CGU by comparison to third-party data included a new North America aggregated CGU and and to the Groups cost of capital and relevant risk the disaggregation of the Growth segment into its main factors.
We compared short and long-term growth constituent countries refer to note 11 for details.
rates, including cash conversion, to historical trends For the larger aggregated CGUs managements model and expectations.
We also considered the accuracy identified significant headroom.
In respect of the India of prior period forecasts.
CGU management recorded an impairment charge We performed sensitivity analyses around these of 77m.
key assumptions to ascertain the extent of change either individually or collectively that would indicate impairment.
We considered the likelihood of such a movement and the adequacy of the disclosures made regarding the assumptions and sensitivities.
For CGUs where headroom was limited we assessed managements sensitivity disclosures to check these were appropriate.
We checked for additional impairment triggers by reading board minutes, holding regular discussions with Group and local management, and examining the performance of recently acquired businesses to identify underperforming operations.
We did not identify any further impairments.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 117 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for uncertain tax liabilities Refer to notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial We obtained an understanding of the Groups tax statements The Group is subject to several tax regimes strategy to identify tax risks relating to business and due to the geographical diversity of its businesses.
To assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions we first recalculated the The directors are required to exercise significant valuation of tax provisions and determined whether judgement in determining the appropriate amount to the treatments adopted were in line with the Groups provide in respect of potential tax exposures and tax policies and had been applied consistently.
The most significant of these relate to US tax.
We then evaluated key underlying assumptions about tax authority views on the Groups tax arrangements, Changes in assumptions about the views that might be particularly in the US and in territories with new crosstaken by tax authorities can materially impact the level of border tax structures.
In doing this we considered the provisions recorded in the financial statements and there status of recent and current tax authority audits and are significant judgements in estimating the amount of enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental any provision required.
positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates, and developments in the tax environment.
We were satisfied that managements provision estimates for uncertain tax positions were consistent with our own assessment of the related risks and correspondence with the relevant tax authorities.
Returns provisions There are material, judgemental provisions for We performed testing over returns provisions in a anticipated book returns on the balance sheet as at number of locations, including US Higher Education.
31 December 2014, particularly in US Higher Education.
We tested the calculation of the provisions, assessing judgements for reasonableness against historical As the Group transitions from print to digital the returns experience and the impact on returns of the ongoing profile might change to either decrease as less books business transition from print to digital.
are shipped or increase if bookstores underestimate the speed of digital change and over-order traditional We also performed detailed testing of shipment and textbooks.
This included checking cut-off at year end and evaluating whether any changes in shipping volumes around year end might increase the risk of returns.
We evaluated changes in estimates to check they were not indicators of management bias.
We found the estimates used by management in the determination of the returns provisions to appropriately reflect both past experience and changes in the business.
118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of pre-publication assets and inventories Refer to notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated financial We first selected a sample of costs deferred to the statements The Group has 820m of pre-publication balance sheet as pre-publication assets or inventories to assets and 224m of inventories at 31 December 2014. test their appropriateness and magnitude.
Pre-publication assets represent direct costs incurred We then assessed the amortisation profiles of prein the development of education programmes and titles publication assets against cash flows to test that the prior to their publication and inventories are unsold existing amortisation profiles remained appropriate in stock, usually physical textbooks.
light of the transition towards digital products.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of We challenged the carrying value of certain prethese assets: this is further complicated by the transition publication assets and inventories where sales have been to digital as the Group invests in new, less proven, digital lower than originally anticipated.
We assessed forecast content and platforms.
cash flows against historical experience and obtained supporting evidence for managements explanations.
We found the Groups policies to be appropriate and consistently applied.
While the carrying value of some assets depends on managements expectation of growth in future sales from them, overall we considered the carrying values of pre-publication assets and inventories to be reasonable.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group engagement team visited Brazil and met Refer to notes 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial with local management of Grupo Multi to gain an statements In February 2014 the Group acquired understanding of the business.
Grupo Multi for 437m, recognising 240m of goodwill and 254m of intangible assets.
This is a significant We performed detailed testing over the acquisition transaction requiring judgement to identify and value accounting, including fair value adjustments such as the intangible assets and assess their subsequent identification and valuation of intangible assets.
acquisition performance and forecasts were assessed As part of the Penguin Random House transaction the to identify potential impairment triggers.
Group recorded an estimated 59m provision in 2013 We obtained the communication between Pearson for the cost of transferring the pension liability guarantee and Bertelsmann confirming that Pearson will retain for Penguin employees to Bertelsmann.
It was concluded responsibility for the pension liability of the legacy during 2014 that Pearson would retain responsibility for Penguin employees.
We tested the appropriate reversal this pension liability.
The provision has been released of the provision within discontinued operations.
within discontinued operations in the current year.
We tested the gain on disposal for Mergermarket by In February 2014 the Group sold Mergermarket for agreeing the consideration to sales documents and 375m, resulting in a gain on disposal of 245m pre-tax cash received and agreed the net assets disposed to and judgemental classification as discontinued underlying records.
We also evaluated its presentation operations.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing and we found that relevant disclosures were included in the Annual report.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 119 How we tailored our audit scope The reporting units where we performed audit work, We tailored our audit scope to ensure that we together with work performed at corporate functions, performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on shared service centres and consolidated Group level, the financial statements as a whole, taking into account accounted for approximately 74% of the Groups the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting statutory profit before tax and 65% of adjusted profit processes and controls, and the industry in which the before tax.
This provided the evidence we needed for Group operates.
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
The Group is organised into three reportable segments, being North America, Core and Growth, plus the Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our investment in associate Penguin Random House.
We set certain quantitative Each segment comprises a number of reporting units.
These, together with The consolidated financial statements comprise these qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the reporting units plus the Groups centralised functions.
scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, misstatements, both individually and on the financial we determined the type of work that needed to be statements as a whole.
performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within Based on our professional judgement, we determined PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating materiality for the financial statements as a whole under our instruction.
Where the work was performed as follows: by component auditors, we determined the level of Overall group 26m 2013: 32m involvement we needed to have in the audit work at materiality those reporting units to be able to conclude whether How we 4% of adjusted profit before tax sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained determined it of 658m as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Rationale for Note 8 explains that the Groups benchmark applied principal measure of performance During the year the Group engagement team visited is adjusted operating profit each of the US, Brazilian, Chinese and South African 722m, which excludes one-off component audit teams: held a planning meeting gains and losses and acquired attended by partners from the Group engagement team intangible asset amortisation, and our UK and US component teams: and had regular in order to present results from dialogue with component teams throughout the year.
operating activities on a consistent We identified two reporting units in the US and UK that basis.
From adjusted operating required an audit of their complete financial information profit we deducted net finance due to size alone, plus a further 13 reporting units in the costs of 64m see note 8 because US, UK, Brazil, China and South Africa that required these reflect recurring finance either an audit or specified procedures on certain charges.
To the resulting adjusted transactions and balances.
We also obtained an audit profit before tax we then applied opinion on the financial information of the associate 4% rather than the usual 5% as Penguin Random House.
The Group consolidation, our materiality calculation was financial statement disclosures and corporate functions based on this adjusted measure were audited by the Group engagement team.
This We agreed with the audit committee that we would included our work over derivative financial instruments, report to them misstatements identified during our audit hedge accounting, goodwill and intangible assets above 2m 2013: 2m as well as misstatements below impairment reviews, litigation, pensions and sharethat amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for based payments.
120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required operation, and that the directors intend them to do to review the directors statement, set out on page 107, so, for at least one year from the date the financial in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have having performed our review.
concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as The going concern basis presumes that the Group to the Groups and companys ability to continue as a and company have adequate resources to remain in going concern.
Other required reporting consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual report is: We have no exceptions to report m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited arising from this responsibility.
financial statements a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit o therwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 108, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that arising from this responsibility.
they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on pages 74 and 75, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the audit committee does not arising from this responsibility.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and The company financial statements and the part of the explanations received directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to agreement with the accounting records and returns.
report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report arising from We have not received all the information and this responsibility.
explanations we require for our audit Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 121 Directors remuneration what an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration report Companies Act An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to remuneration report to be audited has been properly give reasonable assurance that the financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors groups and the companys circumstances and have been remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have consistently applied and adequately disclosed no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates corporate governance statement made by the directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the The overall presentation of the financial statements.
part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing Code.
We have nothing to report having performed the directors judgements against available evidence, our review.
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider Our responsibilities and those of the directors necessary, to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw As explained more fully in the statement of directors conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing responsibilities set out on page 109, the directors the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or are responsible for the preparation of the financial a combination of both.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the Annual report to identify material Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and the financial statements in accordance with applicable to identify any information that is apparently materially law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Standards for Auditors.
If we become aware of any apparent material This report, including the opinions, has been prepared misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the for and only for the companys members as a body in implications for our report.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor other purpose or to any other person to whom this for and on behalf of  LLP report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
London, United Kingdom 9 March 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Pearson plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
