Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group Plc Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International We conducted our audit in accordance the financial statements, defined below, give a true with International Standards on Auditing UK and and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Parent in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Companys cash flows for the year then ended: assurance that the financial statements are free from the Group financial statements have been properly material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or prepared in accordance with International Financial error.
This includes an assessment of: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent Companys circumstances the Parent Company financial statements have been and have been consistently applied and adequately properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as disclosed: adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies the reasonableness of significant accounting Act 2006: and estimates made by the directors: and the financial statements have been prepared in the overall presentation of the financial statements.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies This opinion is to be read in the context of what we with the audited financial statements and to identify say in the remainder of this report.
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the What we have audited knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
are prepared by Pennon Group Plc, comprise: Overview of our audit approach the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2014: Materiality the consolidated income statement and statement We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These of comprehensive income for the year then ended: helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and cash flows statements for the misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
year then ended: and Based on our professional judgement, we determined the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 10 million.
This represents 5% of the other explanatory information.
profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, which The financial reporting framework that has been in our view was the most relevant measure of the applied in their preparation comprises applicable law businesss operations.
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million as well as misstatements 2006. below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
co. uk 2014 97 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Financial statements and shareholder information Independent auditors report Continued Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group Plc Overview of the scope of our audit Areas of particular audit focus The Group is structured as two business operations, being In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a water and sewage and waste management.
The Group financial number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of statements are a consolidation of three reporting units, significant accounting estimates that involved making comprising the Groups two operating businesses and assumptions and considering future events that are inherently centralised functions.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the the financial statements.
reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our In our audit, we tested and examined information, using opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to Accordingly we identified that, in our view, both of the Groups draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing operating businesses required an audit of their complete the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a financial information due to their size, together with the Group combination of both.
These accounted for 100 percent of Group revenue and Group profit before tax adjusted for We considered the following areas to be those that required exceptional items.
particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed The component audit teams working on the operating these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on businesses were both led by the Group engagement partner, those matters that they considered to be significant issues in and work on the centralised functions was performed directly by relation to the financial statements is set out on page 64. the Group engagement team.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which Impairment of goodwill, investment and long-lived they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets assets of Viridor and strategic plans, and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: We focused on this area because, as set out in the critical the directors key assumptions for short-term growth rates in the forecasts by accounting judgements and estimates in note 4, the comparing them to historical results and the prospects for the business and determination of whether or not an impairment charge of either industry: the investment in the waste management business, the long lived assets within the waste management business, or the the directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts by associated goodwill was necessary involved complex and comparing them to historical results, economic and industry forecasts: and significant judgements about the future results of the waste the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the company and management business.
comparable organisations, forming a view of risk premiums as appropriate.
The goodwill arose principally from a series of acquisitions in We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions including recyclate the waste business.
The waste management segment is margins, electricity prices, discount rates, the level of corporate overheads and landfill considered to be an integrated business and this is the lowest capital expenditure.
level to which goodwill is allocated, monitored and tested by Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually management.
or collectively would be required for the investments, assets and goodwill to be The directors recorded an impairment charge of 42.9 million impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions to the assets within the waste management business, which arising.
was treated as an exceptional item.
We discussed the progress of the construction and takeover of waste plants under We needed to obtain evidence for the remaining assets and construction and any potential exposure, being landfill diversion penalties and claims the associated 339.3 million of goodwill in this part of the from and against the contractors, with senior Group management and the in-house business.
We also needed to assess the carrying value of the investment We evaluated the appropriateness of the associated disclosures including the carried in the Parent Company balance sheet.
treatment of the impairment charge as an exceptional item.
We used our specialist knowledge of environmental issues to evaluate the directors Environmental provisions future cost assumptions, detailed plans for capital expenditure and to test the As noted in the critical accounting estimates in note 4, underlying calculations.
estimates are made for aftercare and restoration costs for each The key areas of challenge included: landfill site.
the directors assumptions for the provision of aftercare and restoration: and We focused on this area because the associated costs are material to the financial statements and require judgement in the inflation and discount rates used.
assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for this year.
We also challenged the treatment of the additional aftercare provision as an exceptional item due to its size and nature.
An increase of 5.7 million to the provision was treated as an exceptional item.
98 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the Groups process for applying IFRIC 12 and Accounting for service concession arrangements reviewed the associated contracts to assess whether these We focused on this area within the waste management business fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 and where necessary tested as the accounting for long term projects under IFRIC 12 service the associated IFRIC 12 accounting models.
concession arrangements can be complex.
We assessed the impact of any significant short term As the Group expands the EfW portfolio within the waste changes in the construction or operating phases on the long business it is required to review the associated long-term term assumptions in the models.
We focused in particular on contracts to assess whether these fall within the scope of IFRIC the allocation of revenue and profit margin between the 12 which could mean that the Group recognises the various phases of the contracts.
consideration received from the local authority as either a financial asset or intangible asset rather than recognising a tangible fixed asset under construction.
The amounts are material and significant judgements are required in assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for the recording of revenue and associated assets.
We identified and challenged the key assumptions and Bad debt provisions judgements made by management in their calculation of the As noted in the critical accounting estimates in note 4, estimates bad debt provision.
are made for the level of bad debts.
The key area of challenge being the level of provision applied We focused on this because the provisions for bad debts within to different customer payment profile categories which we the water and sewage business are material to the financial have challenged based on historical collection rates, industry statements and require judgement in assessing the appropriate experience, macro-economic factors and through sensitivity level of provision.
We requested and read the latest correspondence between Provision for tax liabilities the Group and HM Revenue and Customs.
As noted in the critical accounting estimates in note 4, estimates We discussed the potential tax exposure with senior Group are made with respect to the tax position for prior fiscal years not management, including the basis and evidence for their yet agreed with the tax authorities.
positions with the Groups in-house tax specialists.
We focused on this area because there are historical open tax We used our experience and specialist tax knowledge to positions that are both material to the financial statements and independently challenge the evidence described above.
require judgement in assessing the appropriate accounting treatment for this year.
As the foundation of the evidence we obtained regarding the Fraud in revenue recognition revenue recognised during the year, we evaluated the ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the recognition because of the pressure management may feel to completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in achieve the planned results.
We focused on this area because, the financial statements.
We also tested journal entries as set out in note 4 on critical accounting judgements and posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular estimates, there is a significant level of judgement in areas such items.
as estimating the level of revenue for metered customers in the For metered revenue we evaluated the assumptions, being water and sewage business and in relation to long-term that average past usage is indicative of current unbilled usage contracts in the waste management business.
and tested the methodology including seasonality adjustments as well as considering accuracy of previous judgements.
For a sample of long-term contracts we read the relevant contracts and checked the models used to calculate the revenue recorded.
For all other revenue, we tested a sample back to supporting documentation for revenue recognition.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, Risk of management override of internal controls including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
In addition we carried out unpredictable audit procedures in areas that may be susceptible to fraud.
We also tested a sample of journal entries.
co. uk 2014 99 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Financial statements and shareholder information Independent auditors report Continued Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group Plc Going Concern Other matters on which we are required to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors report by exception statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern.
We Adequacy of accounting records and information and have nothing to report having performed our review.
explanations received As noted in the directors statement, the directors have Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and you if, in our opinion: Parent Companys financial statements using the going concern we have not received all the information and explanations we basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that require for our audit: or the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the for at least one year from the date the financial statements were Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the been received from branches not visited by us: or directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in However, because not all future events or conditions can be agreement with the accounting records and returns.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Opinions on matters prescribed by the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors Companies Act 2006 remuneration specified by law have not been made.
We have In our opinion: no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 59 to 61 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
100 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Statement Other information in the Annual Report Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to report to you if, in our opinion a corporate governance you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report statement has not been prepared by the Parent is: Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising materially inconsistent with the information in the from this responsibility.
audited financial statements: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the apparently materially incorrect based on, or part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of Group and Parent Company acquired in the course the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We of performing our audit: or have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 61 of the Annual Report, as required by the We have no exceptions to report arising from this Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they responsibility.
consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Responsibilities for the financial information necessary for members to assess the statements and the audit Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors On page 64, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the As explained more fully in the Directors Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the it considered in relation to the financial statements, and directors are responsible for the preparation of the how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland Group and Parent Company financial statements and we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the statement given by the directors is materially Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group on the Group and Parent Company financial acquired in the course of performing our audit: or statements in accordance with applicable law and the section of the Annual Report describing the work ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to of the Audit Committee does not appropriately comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical address matters communicated by us to the Audit Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared We have no exceptions to report arising from this for and only for the Companys members as a body in responsibility.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
David Charles Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 23 June 2014 www.
co. uk 2014 101 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
