Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 65 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc only Our response: Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit In this area, our audit procedures included: 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Testing the integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model used to value the assets by reperforming the calculations within We have audited the financial statements of Persimmon plc for the model.
theyear ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 68 to 105.
Inour opinion: Evaluating the key assumptions of forecast house price inflation and market participant discount rate, through comparison to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state externally derived data.
of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year Evaluating the assumptions relating to borrower default against then ended: actual default levels incurred by the Group to date and externally available data on mortgage default rates.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Performing sensitivity analysis on the valuation and challenging adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the range of assumptions used by the Group in comparison to externally derived data in respect of the discount rate.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Comparing actual house price inflation to historical price inflation as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies assumptions used in the model in order to assess the Groups Act 2006: and ability to forecast accurately.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Comparing the level of redemptions in the year to the assumed the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards redemption period incorporated into the valuation model to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
evaluate the assumption made over the timing of the settlement of the receivables.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements over the key assumptions and degree of estimation.
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on Carrying value of land and work in progress including our audit were as follows: the accuracy of cost recoveries 2,307.1 million included Carrying value of available for sale financial assets within inventories shared equity receivables 201.3 million Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 76 accounting Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 76 accounting policy and pages 88 and 89 financial disclosure policy and page 88 financial disclosure The risk: The risk: The carrying value of land and work in progress depends on The Group carries long term available for sale financial assets assumptions of forecast selling prices, site planning including which are shared equity loans over an extended term, providedto planning consent, build costs and cost recoveries, all of which customers on the purchase of a new home from the Group.
The contain an element of judgement and uncertainty.
Cost recovery carryingvalueofthe available for sale financial assets incorporates for legally complete house sales is based on the latestwholesite certain assumptions in respect of house price inflation, borrower gross margin which is an output of the site valuations.
These default and discount rate over the period of recovery.
There are valuations use actual and forecast selling prices and actual inherent uncertainties within these assumptions which require and forecast build costs.
Forecast selling prices have inherent judgements to be made.
uncertainty due to changes in market conditions.
Forecast build costs can vary with market conditions and may also be incorrectly estimated due to changes in site planning, style of build or unforeseen circumstances arising during construction.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 66 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc only continued Our response: 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit In this area our audit procedures included: The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was Testing the Groups controls over the valuation process by set at 32.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of attending a selection of regional valuation meetings and gross assets, of which it represents 1.0%.
inspecting the minutes for all regions in respect of the pre half year and year end valuation meetings.
At these meetings We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected management review actual costs and revenues against detailed audit differences exceeding 1.6 million in addition to site budgets.
Estimates of future costs and selling prices in other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on the cost to complete forecasts are reviewed in detail including qualitative grounds.
reference to tendered works packages, actual costs incurred The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was and forward sales reservation prices.
Our inspection of the a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was minutes, and attendance at a selection of meetings, included performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered ensuring the appropriate individuals attended the meetings 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation, and and that the valuations and costs to complete forecasts for all total Group assets.
developments were discussed, challenged and the valuations updated as appropriate.
We also inspected the pre year end 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the minutes for any indications that the land and work in progress Companies Act 2006 is unmodified balance was not recoverable.
In our opinion: Testing the system calculation of cost recovery by plot, through the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has re-calculation.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act For a sample of developments we performed a comparison 2006: and of estimated and actual revenue, costs and margin across the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors lifetime of the development, from the initial land viability study Report for the financial year for which the financial statements performed by the Group to the latest valuation.
We established are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the key reasons for changes to the developments profitability in order to assess the Groups ability to forecast accurately and to 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the ensure recognition of gross margin was adjusted appropriately matters on which we are required to report and promptly reflecting the key reasons for the change identified.
by exception For a sample of developments where the last plot was sold in Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, the year, we tested that the amount recovered and accrued for based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have development completion costs e. g. road and sewers adoption identified other information in the annual report that contains works was appropriate and supported by the latest valuation.
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the We tested the Groups net realisable value assessment for financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is completeness of under performing developments by cross otherwise misleading.
checking to the development performance information obtained In particular, we are required to report to you if: from our inspection of the Groups valuation meeting minutes.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors regarding the carrying value of the land and work in progress.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 67 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44- 48 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Iain Moffatt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment, Neville Street, Leeds, LS1 4DW 23 February 2015
