Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 115 Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited We present our audit report on the Group and parent companys magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in financial statements of Petrofac Limited the financial statements, the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could which comprise the Group primary statements and related notes reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of and parent companys primary statements and related notes.
theusers of the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, As we developed our audit strategy, we determine materiality in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 at the overall level and at the individual account level.
and engagement letter dated 19 February 2014.
Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
In assessing whether errors are Opinion on financial statements material, either individually or in aggregate, we consider qualitative In our opinion, Petrofac Limiteds financial statements: as well as quantitative factors.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Planning Materiality parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group The planning materiality gure provides a basis for determining the and parent companys profits for the year then ended: nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying have been properly prepared in accordance with International and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the Financial Reporting Standards: and nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the We determined planning materiality for the Group to be US$30 Companies Jersey Law 1991. million 2013: US$38 million, which is approximately 5% 2013: 5% of pre-tax profit for the year before impairments, onerous contracts The financial statements comprise the Group and parent company and certain fair value re-measurements.
Pre-tax profit is normalised Income Statements, the Group and parent company Statements of for the materiality calculation to exclude non-recurring items that are Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company Statements audited separately and would, if included, signicantly distort the of Financial Position, the Group and parent company Statements materiality calculation year on year.
This adjustment was considered of Cash Flows, the Group and parent company Statements of appropriate in light of the volatile market conditions, driven by the fall Changes in Equity and the related Group Notes 1 to 33 and parent in oil prices.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Performance Materiality Financial Reporting Standards.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the overall control environment, our judgement is that performance Opinion on other matters requested materiality was 50% 2013: 50% of our planning materiality, namely by the Group and company US$15 million 2013:US$19 million.
Our objective in adopting In our opinion: this approach was to ensure that uncorrected and undetected the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning out on pages 80 and 81 in the Annual Report and Accounts with materiality level.
respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures Reporting Threshold is consistent with the financial statements: We agreed with the Audit Committee that would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.5 million 2013: the information given in the Strategic Report is consistent with the US$1.9 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality.
We report Group financial statements: and all corrected audit differences that in our view warrant reporting the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has on qualitative grounds or where the corrected difference exceeds been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation performance materiality.
Reclassication differences are reported as described theirin.
to the Audit Committee where the difference exceeds 2% of the applicable primary financial statement line items.
Overview We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Areas Scope of Focus Materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements Full scope 6 ECOM long term contracts An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 5% of profit before Tax Specic scope 5 Accounting for tax 89% consolidated US$30M disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Impairment of goodwill revenue coverage assurance that the financial statements are free from material and other assets misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been Our Application of Materiality consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy.
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Full scope includes head ofce and Group consolidation procedure Petrofac 116 Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements The Group audit team follows a programme of planned site visits and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect that is designed to ensure that a senior member of the team visits based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by each of the six full audit scope locations at least once a year.
In 2014, us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any the Group audit team including the senior statutory auditor visited apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the main operating location in the United Arab Emirates during the implications for our report.
conclusion of the year end audit procedures.
A Group team audit partner also visited the remaining full scope locations in Malaysia An Overview of the scope of our audit and Mexico, reviewed key working papers, attended the closing For the parent company our assessment of audit risk and our meeting and participated in the component teams planning, evaluation of materiality determines our audit scope for the parent including the discussion of fraud and error.
The Group audit team company financial statements.
This helps us to form an opinion on attended the audit planning and closing meetings for each full audit the parent company financial statements under the International scope component.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our Assessment of Risk of Material Misstatements For the Group our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing materiality and our allocation of that materiality determine our the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
audit scope for each entity within the Group which, when taken In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective together, enable us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future Ireland.
We take into account the size, risk prole, changes in the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all our audits, we also business environment and other factors when assessing the level addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, of work to be performed at each entity.
The range of performance including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the directors materiality allocated to components in 2014 was US$3.8 million to that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
US$10.7 million 2013: US$4.8 million to US$15.2 million.
We identied the following risks that had the greatest effect on the In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and financial statements, we selected 11 components covering entities directing the efforts of the engagement team.
within the United Arab Emirates UAE, Malaysia, Mexico and Scotland.
Our Group audit scope focussed predominantly on six Revenue and margin recognition in respect of ECOM long components, all of which were subject to a full scope audit for the term contracting: year ended 31 December 2014 and were selected based on our Taxation, as a result of the complexity of the Groups operations assessment of the risk of material misstatement due to both size and the large number of jurisdictions in which the Group operates: and risk.
An additional five components were selected for a specic scope audit on selected account balances where the extent of Consideration of potential impairment of goodwill and other IES audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material assets: and misstatement and of the materiality of those locations to the Groups Initial recognition and determination of subsequent accounting business operations.
for contracts in the Integrated Energy Services segment of For the remaining components not classied as full and specic the business.
there are multiple small, low risk components we assess managements Group wide controls and undertake analytical Changes from the prior year review and enquiry procedures to address the residual risk of Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in material misstatement.
response to changes in circumstances affecting Petrofac Limited and impacting the Group financial statements.
The profound downturn Group revenue in the oil price has resulted in heightened risks associated with recoverability of IES assets.
The decline in oil price also impacts Remaining components 11% our assessment of risk in relation to contract cost estimates, the ability to achieve variation orders and limit liquidated damages, counterparty credit risk and judgements made in respect of taxation.
Specic 24% Full 65% Our procedures to address these risks are included within the discussion of risks in the section below.
In respect of the identied risk: Initial recognition and subsequent accounting at inception for IES contracts: no new IES contracts were entered into during 2014.
Our areas of focus with respect to these Together with the Group functions which were also subject to a full contracts is captured by the risk Impairment of goodwill and other scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013, these locations assets described below.
represent the principal business units of the Group.
We audited 89% 2013: 82% of Group revenue through our audit procedures at full and specic scope locations.
Full scope includes head ofce and Group consolidation procedure Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 11 7 Annual report and accounts 2014 Our responses to the risk of material misstatement identied Area of focus Audit approach ECOM Long term contracts revenue and margin recognition Accounting for ECOM long term contracts is a key area of We challenged management and assessed their evaluations in respect of: audit focus due to the significant judgement and estimation Judgements made regarding the initial recognition and timing of variation applied by management, as described in the Groups orders and the potential for liquidated damages on projects presently behind significant accounting judgements and estimates in note schedule.
We reviewed correspondence with clients and challenged Project 2 on page 125. significant management judgement is Directors as part of our audit: required in recognising revenue on xed-price engineering, consistency of judgements made regarding costs-to-complete by reference to procurement and construction contracts and estimation the historical accuracy of previous forecasts.
We also challenged management is applied in recognising variation orders, project costson the adequacy of contingency provisions to mitigate contract specic risks: to-complete and provisions for liquidated damages.
There the nature of contracts as part of consortia and the appropriateness of timing is an increasing trend of larger contracts being entered of revenue recognition for these contracts: into as part of consortia which adds extra complexity and the processes in place to ensure the appropriate determination of the judgement in the accounting process.
percentage completion of each significant contract were audited: ensuring appropriate approval from customers was evidenced: and revenues recognised for extension of time requests, contractual incentive bonuses and cost-plus contracts for locations where revenue is not recognised on a POC basis.
We also ensured that managements policies and processes for making these estimates and judgements continue to be applied consistently.
Accounting for taxation assets, liabilities, income and expenses The wide geographical spread of the Groups operations, We utilised tax specialists in our London team in the planning stages to the complexity of application of local tax rules in many determine which jurisdictions should be in scope, as well as in the audit of tax different jurisdictions and transfer pricing risks affecting balances.
We also involved local tax specialists in the relevant jurisdictions the allocation of income and costs charged between where we deemed it necessary.
jurisdictions and businesses increase the risk of We considered and challenged the tax exposures estimated by management misstatement of tax balances.
The assessment of tax and the risk analysis associated with these exposures along with claims or exposures by Management requires judgement given the assessments made by tax authorities to date.
structure of individual contracts and the increasing activity We also audited the calculation and disclosure of current and deferred tax refer of tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which Petrofac to Note 7 to ensure compliance with local tax rules and the Groups accounting operates.
Furthermore, the recognition of deferred tax assets policies including the impact of complex items such as share based payments and liabilities needs to be reviewed regularly to ensure that and the review of managements assessment of the likelihood of the realisation any changes in local tax laws and profitability of associated of deferred tax balances.
Refer to note 7 of the financial statements for disclosures in respect of taxation for the year.
Impairment of goodwill and other assets This became an area of focus in the prior year and enhanced We focused on this area as it involves complex and subjective judgements by focus has been given to impairment for the current year the Directors about the future results of the business.
In evaluating whether any following key events unfolding in 2014. impairment was necessary to the remaining carrying value of goodwill and other assets, our audit work involved obtaining evidence regarding its recoverable The significant fall in oil prices will impact the current and amount and how it compared to the amount at which the goodwill or other future financial performance of IES and also inuence the assets are currently recorded.
level of investment in the industry and demand for Petrofac services.
The oil price is a key assumption in the oil and gas We challenged managements assessment of impairment, which are primarily assets and goodwill impairment testing models.
based on discounted cashows and include the following key inputs: In addition, the IES business has not met its stretching forecast oil price curves: growth targets and in some cases has not performed in operating and capital expenditure: line with the initial investment case.
This has impacted the discount rate: recoverable amount of assets within the business, including assumed long term growth rate and ination: and IES goodwill.
Operational challenges on the Greater Stella judgements in respect of outcome of commercial negotiations.
Project, PM304, Berantai and Ticleni projects have resulted We assessed the historical accuracy of budgets and we used a valuation in IES performance being weaker than forecast.
specialist to assist us with our consideration of the discount rate.
We evaluated managements sensitivity analysis on goodwill impairment testing: and considered the financial statement disclosures for compliance with the requirements of accounting standards.
Refer to note 5 for managements disclosure of asset impairments and re-measurements, and note 12 for sensitivity analysis performed on goodwill impairment testing.
Petrofac 118 Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during As explained more fully in the Directors statements set out on page the audit and the directors statement that they consider the 113, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether and parent companys financial statements and for being satisfied the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and communicated to the audit committee which we consider should express an opinion on the Group and parent companys financial have been disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards to you if, in our opinion: for Auditors.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns In addition the Company has also instructed us to: adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or report as to whether the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting management systems in relation to financial reporting processes records and returns: or and about share capital structures is consistent with the we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements: require for our audit.
report as to whether the information given in the strategic report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the isconsistent with the Group financial statements: Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys report as to whether the section of the Directors Remuneration compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Report that is described as audited has been properly prepared Code specified for our review.
inaccordance with the basis of preparation described therein: and The Company has voluntarily complied with, and has instructed us review the Directors statements in relation to going concern as to review, the Directors statement, set out on page 113, in relation to set out on page 113, which for a premium listed UK incorporated going concern.
This statement is specified for review by the Listing company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority for premium listed UK Conduct Authority.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest John Flaherty extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP London as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
24 February 2015 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, inour opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, or knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
