Independent Auditors Report to the members of Playtech plc Opinion on financial statements of Playtech plc In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statement of financial position, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, including the risk of management override and bias, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit in the current year are noted below.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 43 to 45: Title Risk Response Revenue Details of the accounting policies applied in We assessed the design and implementation recognition respect of the various income streams earned of the controls over the Groups main gambling by the Group are given in Note 2 to the financial systems.
This included conducting test bets statements.
and assessing the reconciliation between the main gaming systems and the finance systems.
Management makes certain judgements around the timing of revenue recognition and We performed analytical procedures and tested the treatment of contractual arrangements for a sample of amounts recorded as revenue to revenue streams entered into.
ensure that the revenue had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The risk is in relation to the misstatement of revenue in respect of amounts receivable We reviewed key contracts to assess relating to the share of net gambling revenue whether the revenue had been recognised ofcustomers and other revenue.
in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure implications.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by the Group comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Industry standards.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Financial Statements v39.
indd 67 16 04 2015 11:34 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Playtech plc continued Title Risk Response Capitalisation Under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, costs arising In respect of additions to capitalised of software that meet the specified criteria must be development costs, we assessed the design development capitalised and amortised over the assets and implementation of the controls in respect of costs useful economic life from the date the asset is the capitalisation of intangible assets.
We tested a sample of capitalised costs to For all intangible assets capitalised, supporting documentation and challenged the management must be able to demonstrate the assessment by management as to whether the assets meet the criteria set out in IAS 38. project spend met all the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38.
If amounts are incorrectly capitalised there is a risk of material misstatement in the carrying We considered the disclosures made in the value of these assets.
Impairment In accordance with IAS 36 the Group monitors We considered whether there were any of goodwill, the carrying value of goodwill and other indications of impairment in respect of capitalised intangibles for indications of impairment.
development The Group also performs annual impairment costs and reviews for indefinite life intangible assets and We challenged the appropriateness of the key other intangibles for capitalised development costs relating to assumptions used in the discounted cash projects not launched as at the year end.
flow models prepared by management to assess the potential impairment of indefinite life Impairment reviews require significant intangible assets.
Our challenge was based on judgement from management and are our assessment of the historical accuracy of inherently based on assumptions in respect of the Groups estimates in previous periods, our future profitability.
understanding of the commercial prospects of the assets, identification and analysis of If the carrying value of these assets exceed changes in assumptions from prior periods their recoverable amount there is a risk of and an assessment of the consistency of material misstatement in the carrying value of assumptions across the impairment reviews.
IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible assets not yet available for use such as projects in development for impairment.
We selected a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance sheet date and confirmed that there remains a future intent to launch.
Further to this we reviewed the results of managements impairment review of these assets on a portfolio basis.
68 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements v39.
indd 68 16 04 2015 11:34 Title Risk Response Legal Given the developing nature of the regulatory We considered how the Group monitors and regulatory conditions of the gambling sector in many legal and regulatory developments and their countries across the world, there is a risk that assessment of the potential impact on the potential material legal or regulatory matters are business, and also considered the internal not disclosed or provided for.
and external advice taken in respect of these developments.
The Group have compliance obligations that range from administration of their licences We discussed with the Groups Compliance to assessing the impact of Country-specific and Legal department whether there were and pan-regional rules and regulations on any known instances of material breaches in itsbusiness.
regulatory and licence compliance that required disclosure or required provisions to be made in The Group makes certain provisions and the financial statements.
disclosures required under IFRS for outstanding legal and regulatory disputes based on We discussed the assertions of the Groups managements best estimate of where there Compliance and Legal department with the is a probable outflow of economic benefits.
Where the Group do not consider the likelihood of a provision being probable, the Group We also reviewed disclosures prepared by the will disclose the existence of a contingent Group in respect of contingent liabilities.
liability unless that likelihood of occurrence is considered to be remote when no disclosure isrequired.
Related party There is a risk that disclosures in respect of We assessed the design and implementation of transactions related party transactions are incomplete or that the Groups policies and procedures in respect the assertion that the related party transactions of the capturing of related party transactions.
are on an arms length basis is unsupported.
We obtained a list of related parties from management and ensured all transactions and balances with those entities were disclosed in accordance with IAS 24, including consideration of whether material transactions were correctly disclosed as being on an arms length basis.
We selected a sample of contracts entered into by the Group and enquired as to how management had determined whether the transaction was with a related party.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Financial Statements v39.
indd 69 16 04 2015 11:34 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Playtech plc continued Title Risk Response Taxation The international nature of the Playtech Group We discussed with management how they requires management judgement with regard manage, control and operate Group companies to the assessment and interpretation of national in the countries in which they are registered.
This included how the Group considers tax as part of the overall business planning and how The risk identified is that Group tax liabilities are they monitor the rules and practices governing potentially understated.
the taxation of e-commerce activity that is evolving in many countries.
We liaised with our own tax specialists in the different jurisdictions in which Playtech has significant presence to assess the provisioning for current and deferred taxes.
As part of this we considered if any significant changes had occurred since the latest externally prepared advice received by management with regard to any exposure to taxation in the major territories in which the Group operates, and any correspondence from tax authorities in those territories, of which there was none.
Thelatest externally prepared advice was presented in2013.
We also considered the latest transfer pricing studies carried out on behalf of the Group in the period, and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, whether there had been any change in the basis of operations in the relevant territories.
We challenged the assessments made by management, where needed, and reviewed the disclosures prepared by the Group for the tax provisions and contingent liabilities.
70 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements v39.
indd 70 16 04 2015 11:34 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
We determined planning materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 10.4 million which was subsequently revised to 10.35 million based on final financial information.
In determining this, we based our assessment on a level of 5% of adjusted EBITDA.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of 207K.
We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our Group audit At the planning stage of the audit, we reviewed the consolidated results to date analysed by subsidiary location.
In accordance with ISA 600 Special Considerations Audit of Group Financial Statements including the work of component auditors we requested that component auditors for components that were deemed significant components defined as those that were greater than 15% of the Group materiality figure which is based on adjusted EBITDA perform audits to component materiality set by the Group audit team under Group instructions and reporting.
Other locations that did not meet these criteria were asked to perform review procedures or specific scope procedures on certain balances such as payroll based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities.
The materiality for group reporting for components performing audits or reviews to the Group was 5.2 million and 2.6 million respectively.
In order to gain appropriate audit coverage of the risks described above and of each individually significant reporting component: a audits were undertaken by the Group audit team of all significant components: b r eview and specific scope procedures were undertaken by the Group audit team and BDO member firms of a further 24 components: c review and specific scope procedures were performed by non-BDO member firms of further four reporting components.
Together these covered 97% of adjusted EBITDA and 91% of total assets.
Further to this the Group audit team centrally performed the audit of 100% of Group revenue and intangible assets including development costs using the materiality levels set out above.
Based on the above scope we were able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis of our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement on page 35 relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Financial Statements v39.
indd 71 16 04 2015 11:34 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Playtech plc continued Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 65 and 66, the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements and in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the Company, as a body Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
David Campbell For and on behalf of BDO LLP Chartered Accountants London United Kingdom 26 February 2015 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
72 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements v39.
