Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the year ended 26 January 2014 set out on pages 84 to 130.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 26 January 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Valuation of inventories 16.0 million : Refer to page 47 Audit Committee statement, page 96 accounting policy and page 114 financial disclosures Inventory is a significant balance and the groups main raw In this area, our audit procedures included, among others, testing the materials are commodities which can be subject to price groups controls over the tracking of purchase price variances, inventory volatility.
As the group uses a standard cost as its basis of movements and balances: agreeing the cost of inventories for a sample inventory valuation, changes in price and production levels will of items to supporting documentation e. g. purchase invoices and lead to purchase price variances which, if not accounted for considering for reasonableness by reference to historical data and correctly, may lead to inventories being misstated.
commodity price movements the variances arising from the groups standard costing system.
In addition our procedures included testing whether the standard costs which form the basis of the inventory valuation were set appropriately for example by agreeing standard costs into invoices and other supporting costings and reflected normal production levels, having been adjusted appropriately for any capacity under-utilisation: and agreeing the calculation of overheads absorbed into inventory to supporting analyses of production costs incurred during the time of production of year-end inventory.
We also considered the adequacy of disclosures in relation to inventory in the financial statements.
Brand support accruals 12.4 million : Refer to page 47 Audit Committee statement, page 98 accounting policy and page 118 financial disclosures The group incurs significant costs in supporting and developing Our audit procedures in relation to accounting for brand support costs the groups brands.
Accounting for such costs at the year end included, among others, testing the groups systems for capturing and is considered a significant audit risk due to the judgement ensuring completeness of such costs and challenging by reference to involved in ascertaining the level of accrual required in relation to our knowledge of historical sales and other data, on a sample basis, the promotions and brand support campaigns that either span the nature and level of key brand support accruals.
In addition our testing year end, where settlement has not been fully and finally made included agreeing some specific items within accruals to supporting by the year end or where prior year claims arise.
documentation or correspondence with the customer to confirm the agreed brand support cost and discussing with management and agreeing the accounting treatment for prior year claims from customers which included reading and considering correspondence with key customers that remained within accruals at the year end.
We have considered the disclosures made in this area.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. only Continued The risk Our response Accounting for certain aspects of property, plant and equipment and leases in relation to the groups facility at Milton Keynes: Refer to page 47 Audit Committee statement, page 94 accounting policy and pages 108, 109 and 121 financial disclosures The group has significant property, plant and equipment and, Our audit procedures included, among others, testing the groups this year, has constructed a new facility in Milton Keynes.
controls over capitalisation and purchase of assets: seeking support As such, there is a risk arising from the degree of judgement for additions, particularly in relation to the new site at Milton Keynes: involved in assessing the nature and level of expenditure to be challenging additions to property, plant and equipment to assess capitalised as property, plant and equipment, in considering whether there are any items included that should have been charged the level of borrowing costs that should be capitalised on to income and ensuring that a sample of additions relate to valid items: the construction of such assets, in assessing whether leases testing depreciation calculations to assess whether the depreciation entered into are finance or operating in nature and in assessing rates are in line with similar properties and have been applied correctly the appropriate depreciation rates and estimated useful lives of and consistently: assessing whether the date of commencement of such assets.
depreciation of Milton Keynes assets was in accordance with the groups accounting policy and assessing the appropriateness of the accounting policy in this regard: completing a site visit to the Milton Keynes facility: testing that any borrowing costs incurred in relation to the acquisition of the land and construction of buildings have been appropriately capitalised: and considering the treatment of a lease entered into by the group for the plant and equipment at this site by reference to the lease accounting criteria contained in accounting standards.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this area.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation of which it represents 3%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 100,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitativegrounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed for all components by the group audit team at one location in Cumbernauld.
These audits covered 100% of group turnover, profit before tax and total assets.
The audits performed for group reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 35,000 to 1,000,000.
Inventory counts carried out at the groups Cumbernauld, Tredegar and Milton Keynes sites were attended.
During the year senior members of the group audit team continued its programme of site visits and completed a site visit of the groups new Milton Keynes facility.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 40 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 45 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Craig Anderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ 25 March 2014 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
