114 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Premier Farnell plc Report on the financial statements What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements Our opinion the financial statements, which are prepared by Premier Farnell plc, In our opinion: comprise: t the financial statements, dened below, give a true and fair view of t the Consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at as at 2 February 2014: 2 February 2014 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and t the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement ParentCompanys cash ows for the year then ended: of comprehensive income for the year then ended: t the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in t the Consolidated statement of cash ows for the year then ended: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: t the Consolidated statement of changes in equity forthe year then ended: and t the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting t the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies Practice: and and other explanatory information.
t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group of the Group financial statements comprises applicable law and IFRSs financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder statements comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting of this report.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
indd 114 23 04 2014 13:15 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 115 What an audit of financial statementsinvolves In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network rms operating underour instruction.
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those This includes an assessment of: reporting units in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit t whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied financial statements as a whole.
and adequately disclosed: We identied 23 reporting units, which in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size, risk characteristics or t the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and contribution to the Group.
This provided us with 86% coverage of Group profit before tax before adjusting items.
t the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Specic audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were also In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the performed at one further reporting unit upon request of the directors and Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial the Audit Committee.
This, together with additional procedures performed statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially on balances arising as a result of the Groups consolidation process incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any statements as a whole.
apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the Areas of particular audit focus implications for our report.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Overview of our audit approach Materiality estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timingand extent of our audit procedures andto evaluate the areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the effect of misstatements bothindividually and on the financial statements asa whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and Group financial statements as a whole to be 4 million.
This represents other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to approximately 5% of profit before tax before those items which are provide a reasonable basis for us todraw conclusions.
We obtained identied as adjusting items set out separately on the face of the audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive income statement.
procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular We agreed with the Audit Committee that wewould report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 0.2 million as wellas focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identied by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Their report on those matters that they considered to besignicant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on Overview of the scope of our audit page 56.
The Group is structured into three divisions being the Marketing and Distribution Division MDD, Other MDD Distribution Businesses and the Industrial Products Division IPD.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 52 reporting units within these divisions.
49 reporting units comprise the MDD division and centralised functions, two units are in the Other MDD Distribution businesses and one unit is in the IPD division.
indd 115 23 04 2014 13:15 116 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Premier Farnell plc Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory valuation We tested key controls relating to the inventory cycle.
The Group has significant inventory holdings at a number We updated our understanding of any changes in provisioning ofreportingunits in different territories.
methodologies and considered if the changes were appropriate in light The Groups business model and type of products being ofthe industry in which Premier Farnell operates.
predominantly electronic components drives high levels of We tested the calculation of the inventory provision which included testing inventoryturn and regular changes in products.
the slow moving and obsolete, net realisable value and shrink provisions.
As a result, inventory management is considered by the directors We compared the calculations to the Group policies and investigated tobe a critical business process.
For these reasons, we focused on this area and in particular theDirectors subjective judgements in estimating the provision required for slow moving and obsolete inventory.
Valuation of pension obligations We evaluated the Groups key judgements, taking into account the We focused on this area because of the materiality of the obligation specic characteristics of the Groups pension schemes.
We assessed to the financial statements and the key judgements and assumptions assumptions with respect to discount rates, RPI and mortality rates used involved in determining the net pension obligation including discount by the Directors by comparing them to our own, independently formed rates, RPI and mortality rates.
Fraud in revenue recognition Revenue comprises a high volume of low value transactions.
Accordingly, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue we tested key controls in the revenue and receivables cycle, including recognition because of the pressure management may feel automated and manual controls over revenue recognition, the reviewof toachieve the planned results.
changes to master price le and testing automatic generation ofinvoices.
In addition, we performed substantive testing of revenue transactions, performed analytical procedures, tested sales returns and performed testing of manual journal entries into revenue.
Risk of fraud due to management override of internal controls We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
Going Concern Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, In our opinion: set out on page 53, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report t the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report having performed our review.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that consistent with the financial statements: it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial t the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend t the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements on pages 56 to 59 in the Annual Report with respect to internal control were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors and risk management systems and about share capital structures use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
isconsistent with the financial statements.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
indd 116 23 04 2014 13:15 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 117 Other matters on which we are required toreport by exception Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required toreport to you if, in our Adequacy of accounting records and information and opinion, information inthe Annual Report is: explanations received.
t materially inconsistent with the information inthe audited financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statements: or in our opinion: t apparently materially incorrect based on, ormaterially inconsistent with, t we have not received all the information and explanations we require our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired inthe for our audit: or course of performing our audit: or t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent t is otherwise misleading.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
t the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Directors remuneration and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in give a true and fair view.
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law this responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this responsibility.
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Caroline Roxburgh Senior Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report having performed our review.
for and on behalf of  LLP On page 62 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as awhole Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information London necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 56, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the 17 April 2014 Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: t the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with ourknowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit: or t the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated byus to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
