132 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC Opinion on financial statements of Premier Oil plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the parent company statement of total recognised gains and losses, the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 26 in respect of the group financial statements and 1 to 13 in respect of the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the going concern section of the Financial Review that the group is a going concern.
Our audit work in response to going concern risk is summarised in the following section of this report.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These risks are the same as those discussed in 2013 but with the addition of going concern on the grounds that there has been a significant drop in the oil price.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 133 Going concern Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Following the significant recent decline in the oil We have challenged the key assumptions in managements price, and on-going oil price volatility, there is a forecast cash flows for the next 12 months base case and heightened degree of judgement as to the groups downside scenarios by: ability to comply with certain of the covenants within comparing the cash flow forecasts with the Board approved its loan agreements throughout the going concern budget, and obtaining explanations for any significant assessment period.
Accordingly, we considered the differences: appropriateness of the going concern assumption, the question as to whether there is a material ensuring consistency between the forecasts in the group uncertainty and the adequacy of managements going concern model and those used in the asset value-in-use disclosure to be a key risk.
calculations for impairment assessment purposes: assessing the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by management: comparing the oil price assumptions used in these forecasts to third party forecasts and publicly available forward curves: testing the mechanical accuracy of the model used: agreeing the groups committed debt facilities and hedging arrangements to supporting documentation: performing stress tests for a range of reasonably possible scenarios including oil price on managements cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts for the going concern period: challenging managements plans for mitigating any identified exposures, including their ability to amend the terms of their existing financing arrangements, obtain additional sources of financing or undertake additional asset disposals: assessing the quality of the groups relationships with the banks providing the debt facilities: and considering whether the disclosures relating to going concern referred to in the basis of preparation section of the accounting policies are balanced, proportionate and clear.
We have concluded above that we agree with managements adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we agree with their conclusion that there are no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Recoverability of intangible exploration and evaluation E&E assets Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In accordance with the relevant accounting standards, We have considered the process by which management review E&E costs are written off unless commercial reserves their E&E assets to assess if there were any indicators of have been established or the appraisal process is not impairments for any of the groups material field interests.
This was considered a key risk due to the We challenged the outcome of this review by participating in significant judgements and estimates that are required meetings with key operational and finance staff to understand to be assessed and the highly material nature of the the current status and future intention for each asset, confirming related balances in the financial statements.
that all assets which remain capitalised are included in future budgets and are considered to contain potentially commercial volumes of hydrocarbons and identifying any fields where the groups right to explore is either at, or close to, expiry.
Where an asset has been impaired we have obtained supporting evidence for the events that led to the impairment.
Note 8 of the financial statements includes details of the groups exploration assets and the impairments of US$58.5 million which arose during the year.
134 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC continued Capitalisation and impairment of oil and gas properties within property, plant and equipment Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk These are considered key risks due to the significant We have performed a review of the producing and development judgements and estimates that need to be made in asset portfolio for indicators of impairment.
Where indicators assessing both whether costs initially qualify for of impairment have been identified, we have ensured that capitalisation and whether any impairments have arisen appropriate impairment calculations have been prepared.
This is a particular area of focus for 2014 These are based on key assumptions which include: given the fall in the oil price during the year.
Commodity price: The risk of impairment is greater where there are Reserves production: potential impairment triggers such as reserves downgrades or upward revisions to future cost estimates, Discount rate: or where assets have been recently impaired.
Operating costs: and Capital costs.
We have assessed these assumptions by reference to publicly available information, third party information, our knowledge of the group and industry and also budgeted and forecast performance.
Where impairments were identified, we confirmed that an appropriate provision has been recorded.
During the year, a total impairment charge was recorded of US$784.4 million, which primarily related to the Balmoral area, Solan, and Huntington in the UK and Chim So in Vietnam.
Further details are provided in note 9 to the financial statements.
We have also tested capitalised expenditure during the year on a sample basis to assess whether the related costs qualify for capitalisation under the relevant accounting standards.
Decommissioning provisions Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Provisions for decommissioning are a judgemental area We have assessed for appropriateness the key assumptions as they include assumptions around estimated underlying the decommissioning calculation through: decommissioning costs, discount rates and the agreeing gross cost estimates to third party support or economic life of a field, which in turn will depend on internal engineer estimates: factors such as oil price and operating costs.
obtaining supporting evidence for any material revisions in cost estimates during the year: confirming the decommissioning dates are consistent with the groups latest internal economic models: comparing the discount rate to available market information: and testing the mechanical accuracy of managements decommissioning provision calculation.
The total provision at the end of 2014 was US$871 million 2013: US$838 million and further details are provided in note 16 to the financial statements.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 135 Accounting for income taxes Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk This is considered a key risk due to the diverse We worked with tax specialists in the relevant locations to geographical nature of the group, the different tax understand the tax legislation governing the groups operations legislation in place in the jurisdictions in which the in each of the jurisdictions in which the group operated during group operates and the judgements applied in the the year: we obtained the groups taxation computations in recognition of deferred tax assets and provisions for respect of current and deferred tax and assessed the computations potential tax exposures.
for compliance with local tax legislation and IAS 12 Income Taxes: and we evaluated judgmental tax exposures and provisions, assessing the position taken by management in respect of the probability and amount of potential exposures.
This included an assessment of the recoverability of the groups deferred tax assets, which totalled US$972 million at the year-end, and considering whether the supporting calculations are in accordance with enacted tax legislation and are consistent with the models used for the groups IAS 36 impairment tests.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 78 to 79.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the group to be US$23 million 2013: US$30 million, which is below 5 per cent 2013: 7.5 per cent of normalised pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit has been normalised through the exclusion of one-off items, including impairment charges, that are audited separately and would, if included, significantly distort the materiality calculation year-on-year.
We have reduced the percentage applied to pre-tax profit in response to recent market and regulatory trends in this area.
In order to ensure that we gain sufficient assurance and oversight of misstatements throughout the group, materiality for each of the reporting components has been set at between US$12 million and US$15 million, depending on the relative size of the component.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$0.5 million 2013: US$0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five key locations, being London, Aberdeen, Vietnam, Indonesia and Pakistan.
These locations were subject to a full scope audit, whilst a further two were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups operations at those locations.
These seven locations represent the principal business units and account for materially all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team performs the audit work in London and Aberdeen and is also involved in the work of the component auditor that have been engaged in Vietnam, Indonesia and Pakistan at all stages of the audit process.
This includes a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or senior members of the group audit team visit key locations and review the work performed on the significant risks by the component auditor.
During the year, visits were made to all three overseas locations.
136 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 137 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Paterson ACA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 February 2015
