63 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZ Cussons Plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements, definedbelow: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union:and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of thisreport.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by PZ Cussons Plc, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 May2014: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year thenended: the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended:and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other .
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts theAnnual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and areidentified asaudited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessmentof: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequatelydisclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as awhole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 5.75 million.
Thisrepresents approximately 5% of Group profit before tax and exceptional items.
Profit before tax and exceptional items was selected asthis, in our judgement, is the most appropriate measure of the Groups underlying tradingperformance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.25 million as well asmisstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitativereasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group has operations in a range of different geographies and is structured across three main business lines being Africa, Europe and Asia which comprise the Groups operating segments as set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 36 reporting units within these operating segments, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as awhole.
64 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZ Cussons Plc continued Accordingly, we identified ten reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics, which together comprised in excess of 80% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items.
Wealso performed specific audit procedures on revenue and exceptional items at a further two reporting units.
This, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as awhole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focussed our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financialstatements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page59.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill, intangible assets and investments in joint We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process ventures impairment assessment bywhich they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board No impairment charge has been recognised by the approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged: directors in the year.
We focussed on this area because the the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the forecasts determination of whether or not an impairment charge for by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry goodwill, intangible assets or investments in joint ventures forecasts:and was necessary involved significant judgements by the the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and Directors about the future results of the Groups identified comparable organisations.
cash generating units and joint ventures, and changes in assumptions and forecasts used in supporting the value We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow oftheassets could give rise to a material impairment.
forecasts being revenue and gross margin growth.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill, intangible assets or investments to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Provisions and contingencies direct tax provisions We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and The directors are required to exercise significant judgement assessed key tax risks related to business and legislative developments when determining the appropriate amount to provide including reading the Groups transfer pricing arrangements and testing in respect of potential direct tax exposures relating to how these have been implemented.
We recalculated direct tax provisions challenges by the tax authorities, particularly in emerging and determined whether the calculations were in line with the Groups markets.
Refer to note 7 to the financial statements.
methodology and whether the principles had been applied consistently.
We challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in territories We focussed on this area because changes in assumptions where new tax structures are in place, having due regard to correspondence can materially affect the levels of provisions recorded in between PZ Cussons and local tax authorities.
Pensions obligations and assumptions For the UK and Indonesian defined benefit pension plans, we challenged The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in the thereasonableness of key actuarial assumptions including pension increase, UKand certain overseas territories, principally Indonesia.
salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality, using benchmark ranges based on market conditions and expectations at the balance sheet We focussed on this area because of the magnitude of the date and comparison across the wider pensions industry.
We also checked gross pension plan liabilities in the context of the overall whether the methods used by management to determine key assumptions balance sheet.
Measurement of the pension plan liabilities had been consistently applied year-on-year and evaluated the rationale requires a significant level of judgement and technical for any changes in approach.
We tested the reconciliation of the opening expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
to closing liability for accuracy taking into account the movements in key assumptions over the year and any changes made to benefits provided Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact withinthe plans.
Refer to note 23 to the financial statements.
65 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Presentation of exceptional items We tested the calculation of exceptional income and costs incurred in the We focussed on this area given the material income statement year, checking to third party documentation and the Directors calculations.
impact of exceptional income and costs presented in the year.
We assessed the presentation of items identified as exceptional against the The reporting and calculation of exceptional items involves Groups accounting policy and relevant accounting standards and evaluated judgement and the reporting of such items, along with the disclosure in the financial statements.
adjusted performance measures, could impact the overall balance in reporting financial performance.
Fraud in revenue recognition As the foundation of the evidence we obtained regarding the revenue ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in recognised during the year, we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested revenuerecognition.
the internal controls over the accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements.
We also tested journal entries posted to revenue We focussed on the risk that revenue may have been accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.
recognised for each revenue stream for transactions thathadnot occurred.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed ourreview.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, andthat the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit wehave concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis isappropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability tocontinue as a goingconcern.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In ouropinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements:and Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from thisresponsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified bylaw have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
66 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZ Cussons Plc continued Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 62 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken asa whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 59, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to youif, in ouropinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit:or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated byus to the AuditCommittee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Reportis: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements:or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course ofperforming our audit:or is otherwisemisleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK&Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 ofPart 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for anyother purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed byourprior consent inwriting.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and StatutoryAuditors Leeds 29 July2014
