Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Additional information Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only of QinetiQ Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow statement, the parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Carrying value of goodwill - 141.3 million Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy note and page 117 financial disclosures The risk: The carrying value of goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
In the period an impairment has been recognised to the goodwill associated with: a the US SSG Cash-Generating Unit, and b the US TSG Cash-Generating Unit.
The impairment calculations are based on an estimate of the fair value less costs to sell of the US SSG business and the discounted projected cash flows of the US TSG business.
The fair value less costs to sell of the US SSG business reflects the expected sale proceeds which include an element of contingent consideration based on its future performance, which therefore requires estimation.
There is also inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting the future cash flows used for the purposes of the US TSG impairment calculations due to the lumpy revenue profile of this business which declined in 2014 due to a significant reduction in demand for conflict related products.
Our response: Our audit procedures included in respect of the US SSG Cash-generating unit included, among others, testing the principles and mathematical integrity of the Groups estimated contingent consideration calculation.
In respect of the US TSG Cash-generating unit, our audit procedures included, among others, testing the principles and mathematical integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model and comparing the Groups assumptions to externally derived data and key inputs such as projected economic growth and discount rates.
We tested the sensitivity of the impairment calculation to changes in the judgments and assumptions used by the directors.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts 1,069.3 million Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy note and page 111 financial disclosures The risk: A significant proportion of the Groups revenues and profits are derived from long-term contracts.
These contracts can include complex technological and commercial risks and often specify performance milestones to be achieved throughout the contract period.
This results in estimates and assumptions having to be made to forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate allowances for these technical and commercial risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
The risk of misstatement is that the accounting for the Groups significant contracts does not accurately reflect the status and the associated cost to complete of the relevant contract.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls in place to manage the commercial, technical and financial aspects of the Groups long-term contracts, For all significant contracts, determined on the basis of technical and commercial complexity and profitability of the contract, we also obtained an understanding of the status of the contract through discussions with contract project teams and Directors at a Group and division level, attendance at project teams contract review meetings, and examining externally available evidence, such as customer correspondence.
We examined the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging the reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence including past experience of the contracts and the extent of technical or commercial risk identified.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures see notes 3 and 30 around segmental information and material contingent liabilities properly reflected the evidence obtained.
97 97 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only continued of QinetiQ Group plc only continued Provisions and contingent liabilities 24.1 million Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy note and pages 123 and 143 financial disclosures The risk: Provisions are held in respect of restructuring costs, environmental issues and other matters.
The financial statements also disclose contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims which have not been provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify for recognition as provisions.
The application of accounting standards to determine whether a provision should be recorded and, if so, the amount, is inherently subjective as it relates to uncertain future events.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, a critical assessment of the extent to which the Directors estimates take into account a balanced assessment of the latest available information and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
We corroborated the appropriateness of the assumptions including by reference to third-party confirmations and legal advice, where available, and considered whether our understanding of the business gained throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions recorded, or indicated that further challenge was warranted.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of provisions and contingent liabilities.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about provisions and the treatment of movements on provisions in the income statement for the year were appropriate.
Tax liabilities current tax payable 4.6 million, deferred tax liability 15.0 million, deferred tax asset 18.1 million Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy note and pages 115 and 121 financial disclosures The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK, USA and a number of other overseas jurisdictions.
The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities, including those related to specific tax allowances such as the UK Research and Development tax credit.
There is a risk that the judgments on which the provisions are based do not take into account or do not properly reflect the latest available, reliable information or an appropriate application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the appropriateness of the Directors assumptions and estimates in relation to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements based on the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and the complexity of the relevant tax legislation.
We involved our tax specialist in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also assessed whether the Groups tax disclosures see note 16 are appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
The effect of the proposed disposal of the US Services Solutions Group SSG division Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy note and page 117 and 144 financial disclosures The risk: The Group has not classified the US SSG business as held for sale and consequently has not classified it as a discontinued operation as at 31 March 2014.
The classification as held for sale involves judgment as it requires consideration of whether specific criteria set out in accounting standards are present at the year end, in particular, whether the transaction was highly probable at the balance sheet date with reference to the facts and circumstances at the time.
Our response: Our audit procedures in this area included, among others: assessing the available documentation relating to the proposed disposal and making a critical assessment as to the appropriateness of not classifying the US SSG business as held for sale applying the facts and circumstances present at the year end to the criteria set out in accounting standards and assessing the carrying value of the US SSG business based on a fair value less cost to sales equivalent to the likely sale price.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements.
Consolidation of US subsidiaries Refer to page 63 Audit Committee report and page 110 accounting policy note The risk: As detailed on page 61 concerning Management and control of US subsidiaries, the Groups holding of its QNA assets is regulated by a Proxy agreement whose purpose is to insulate QNA from foreign ownership control or influence, the effects of which have to be considered when assessing whether it should be consolidated in accordance with the requirements of the relevant accounting standard IAS 27.
Judgment is required in assessing whether the Proxy agreement restricts the Groups ability to control QNAs operating and financial policies to an extent that it would be inappropriate to consolidate it and, if so, what the alternative accounting treatment should be.
Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, challenging the appropriateness of the directors judgment, by critically assessing the available evidence as to the operation of the Proxy agreement in the context of the relevant accounting standard.
We reviewed the relevant documentation including the Proxy agreement to assessed the respective rights of the QinetiQ and the proxy board over QNAs financial and operating policies.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures are appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
98 98 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Additional information 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.4 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group underlying profit before taxation of which it represents 4.5%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in the USA and by the group audit team in the UK.
These group procedures covered 93% of total group revenue: 102% of group underlying profit before tax, as reporting units with a total net loss before tax of 1.8 million were outside the scope of group reporting activities: 89% of group specific adjusting items: and 92% of total Group assets.
The disclosures in note 2 set out the individual significance of a specific country.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 3.8 million to 4.5 million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the US.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors at these locations and other locations that were not physically visited.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
99 99 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only continued of QinetiQ Group plc only continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 68 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL May 2014 100 100 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
