Report of the independent auditors to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of Randgold Resources Limited the company which has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International comprise the statement of financial position of the company Accounting Standards Board IASB.
as of 31 December 2014 and the statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the company In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
for the year then ended and consolidated statement of financial position of the company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures the group as of 31 December 2014 An overview of the scope of our and the consolidated statement of comprehensive audit income, consolidated statement of changes in equity Our group audit scope focused on the group's principal and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year operating components being Loulo and Gounkoto in Mali, then ended and the related notes.
The financial reporting Tongon in the Cte d'Ivoire and Kibali in the Democratic framework that has been applied in their preparation is Republic of Congo, each of which was subject to a full applicable law and International Financial Reporting scope audit.
The four principal operating components Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
include one joint venture Kibali.
Together with the parent company and its group consolidation, which were also This report is made solely to the companys members, as subject to a full scope audit, these components represent a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies the principal business units of the group and account for Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken 100% of the group's revenue, 100% of the group's profit so that we might state to the companys members before income tax and approximately 99% of the group's those matters we are required to state to them in an total assets.
auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume While materiality for the financial statements as a whole responsibility to anyone other than the company and the was $26.0 million, each component of the group was companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this audited to a lower level of materiality.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Audits of these components are performed at a materiality Our unmodified opinion on level calculated by reference to a proportion of group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business financial statements concerned.
The audits of each of these components are In our opinion the financial statements: principally performed in Mali Loulo and Gounkoto mines, Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups the Democratic Republic of Congo Kibali mine and Cte and the companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 dIvoire Tongon mine, as well as the audit of corporate and of the groups profit for the year then ended: accounting functions in Jersey and South Africa.
The Have been properly prepared in accordance with audits are conducted by BDO LLP.
As part of our audit IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and strategy, the Responsible Individual or senior members of Have been prepared in accordance with Companies the audit team visit each of the four principle operating Jersey Law 1991. components each year.
Separate opinion in relation to The remaining components of the group include the Morila IFRSs as issued by the IASB joint venture and non-significant holding companies and As explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial these components were principally subject to analytical statements, the group, in addition to complying with its review procedures, together with additional substantive obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements in testing at Morila over certain audit risk areas.
Our assessment of and response to risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that we believe to have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope and set out below how we addressed those risks: Risk identified Audit response We critically reviewed the groups mining conventions, arbitration Taxation claims filings for relevant claims and correspondence with the State of As detailed in notes 3 and 19, the groups Malian Mali to consider the extent to which the directors assessment that operations are subject to taxation claims by the State of any contingent liabilities associated with previously existing and Mali totalling $313.0 million which includes $190.0 million new taxation claims are remote remains appropriate.
of new claims made in the current period which the directors continue to consider are without foundation.
In respect of the $190.0 million claim received in the year, we performed the procedures above and verified underlying The group has taken professional advice with regards accounting records and information that formed part of the groups to the claims and commenced international arbitration basis for assessing the claim.
proceedings in the prior year against the State of Mali, which remain ongoing, disputing the validity of certain We verified the completeness and accuracy of the claim values to of the claims.
Given the material nature of the claims the groups tax correspondence, and evaluated the competence and ongoing nature of the disputes and international and objectivity of professional advisors relied upon by management.
arbitration proceedings for certain of the claims, the recognition and presentation of any liabilities or We obtained confirmations from local and international legal and contingent liabilities arising as a result of the taxation tax advisors which supported the directors assessment that the claims represent key judgements and was a risk for our material claims were without legal merit.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 197 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDANT AUDITORS CONTINUED Risk identified Audit response We obtained and considered the groups correspondence with Tva recoverability tax authorities in respect of TVA for indicators that such taxes As detailed in notes 3, 7 and 17, the group is were irrecoverable under local tax rules and we verified that taxes carrying value added tax TVA receivables totalling claimed during the year had been approved by the tax authority or $116.0 million, substantially in respect of its Loulo and were not subject to a formal dispute.
In addition, the equity accounted Kibali joint venture based in the Democratic Republic of We verified the groups tax filings in Mali to confirm the amounts of Congo holds a further $112.2 million of TVA receivables taxes payable offset against TVA receivables and, at Kibali, verified of which, given the groups 45% joint venture interest, the receipt of funds against TVA.
$50.5 million is attributable to the group.
We considered and challenged managements assessment of the The group has experienced significant delays obtaining carrying value and presentation of the receivables, together with refunds for the amounts due from the State of Mali and the appropriateness of the assumptions made in reaching those has not received cash refunds in 2014.
In particular, this included consideration by us of the continues to offset taxes payable against the receivables payment history, the nature of ongoing correspondence, ongoing in Mali under the terms of its Mining Conventions.
taxation disputes refer to previous point, terms of the mining conventions in Mali that confer rights to offset such taxes claimed A number of refunds have been received in respect of against other taxes due, and challenging the appropriateness of TVA by the Kibali joint venture: however these have not assumptions and estimates made regarding the value and timing been on a timely basis.
of eligible future taxes available for offset under the terms of such conventions.
Given the delays in recovering the amounts due, the carrying value and presentation of TVA receivables represent key judgements and was considered to be a risk for our audit.
We performed tests of controls and substantive procedures Capital expenditure to obtain assurance as to the authorisation, accuracy and The group has incurred substantial capital expenditure completeness of the recording and classification of capital as part of its development of the Loulo underground expenditure.
mine and has advanced significant funding to the Kibali joint venture for the development of the Kibali gold mine.
We also undertook verification testing on expenditure to supporting The existence, accuracy and completeness of capital documentation such as invoices and contracts.
expenditure at these mines represented a risk for our audit given the material nature of capital expenditure, We critically assessed managements capitalisation policies and together with the allocation of costs between operating critically reviewed managements allocation of costs between expenditure, ore stockpiles and capital expenditure.
In operating expenditure, ore stockpiles and capital expenditure to particular, the appropriateness of cost allocation focused assess the allocation of such costs based on the nature of the on underground mining operations, commissioning of underlying activity, supported by sample based verification and the Kibali mine and production phase open cast mine tests of controls.
These judgements added to the risk for our audit.
We evaluated managements impairment models against LoM plans Life of mine planning and our understanding of the operations, and critically challenged Gold prices have ranged from $1 195 oz to $1 385 oz the key estimates and assumptions used by management in each during the year and remain depressed, such that there discounted cash flow model.
Our testing included comparison of is continued market focus on the appropriateness of the gold price forecasts to forward gold price data and trends.
We assumptions used in Life of Mine LoM planning within performed recalculation of discount rates for the assets using our the industry.
valuation specialists and critically reviewed the forecast cost and production profiles against approved mine plans and empirical As detailed in note 3, the assessment of the groups performance.
This included assessment of forecast improvements LoM plans and any related impairment to the carrying in recovery rates at Tongon for consistency with capital project value of mining assets and investments in joint ventures feasibility studies and implementation.
requires significant estimation by management, including estimates relating to key assumptions included The impairment models and sensitivity analysis prepared by in impairment models.
Key assumptions include future management indicated that no impairment charges were required gold prices, ore reserves and future production volumes, and that each had headroom.
future production costs and appropriate discount rates.
We challenged managements sensitivity assessments and Carrying value of mining assets and joint performed our own sensitivity calculations in respect of short and venture investments long term gold prices, discount rates and operational performance, As part of the carrying value of mining assets, along with considering the appropriateness of related disclosures depreciation represents an area of judgment within the given in note 3. financial statements as detailed in note 2.
The group applies a units of production depreciation policy, which In respect of the groups depreciation calculations, we updated our involves judgment in determining the appropriate ore assessment of the groups depreciation policy and its application.
reserves attributable to key asset categories within As part of this, we verified the inputs to the calculations, critically the mines.
In addition, judgment is required regarding assessed managements allocation of ore reserves to specific the date at which depreciation commences during the depreciable asset categories and verified the ore reserves to the continued commissioning of further assets at the Kibali reserves statement.
As part of this review, we met with operational mine.
management to assess the asset and reserve allocations and assessed the competence and objectivity of the groups Competent Person.
We undertook a detailed review of the asset registers at Kibali, assessing the commissioning dates and associated start date for depreciation against capital project reports and our understanding of the mines activities in the year.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 198 balanced and understandable and whether the annual Our application of materiality report appropriately discloses those matters that we We apply the concept of materiality both in planning communicated to the audit committee which we consider and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect should have been disclosed.
We consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, Respective responsibilities of could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
directors and auditors Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not As explained more fully in the statement of directors necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the account of the nature of identified misstatements, and preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for being satisfied that evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a they give a true and fair view.
The directors are responsible whole.
for such internal controls as the directors determine are necessary to enable the preparation of financial We determined materiality for the financial statements statements that are free from material misstatement, as a whole to be $26.0 million, which equated to 7.4% of whether due to fraud or error.
The directors are required profit before income tax and represents less than 0.1% to comply with the requirements of rules 9.8.
We consider profit before income tax to be of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority the most significant determinant of the groups financial performance and therefore an appropriate basis for in preparing this annual report.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on While materiality for the financial statements as a whole the financial statements in accordance with applicable law was $26.0 million, each component of the group was and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
audited to a lower level of materiality.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all individual audit differences Scope of the audit of the financial identified during the course of our audit in excess of statements $0.8 million.
We also agreed to report differences below An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to qualitative grounds.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Matters on which we are required are free from material misstatement, whether caused by to report by exception fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances and have been consistently applied and Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant to report to you if, in our opinion: accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Proper accounting records have not been kept, or overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, Proper returns adequate for our audit have not been we read all the financial and non-financial information received from branches not visited by us: or The financial statements are not in agreement with in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies the accounting records and returns: or with the audited financial statements and to identify We have not received all the information and any information that is apparently materially incorrect explanations we require for our audit.
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the become aware of any apparent material misstatements part of the corporate governance statement relating to or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK report.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Scott McNaughton Responsible Individual company acquired in the course of performing our For and on behalf of BDO LLP audit: or Chartered accountants and recognised auditors Is otherwise misleading.
London 13 March 2015 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
