Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc our opinion Scope In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs group financial statements We conducted audit work in 19 countries in which the Group has the financial statements : significant operations.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 Our audit scope accounted for 75% of continuing Group revenue and December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then 74% of continuing Group profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring ended: exceptional items.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial The Group engagement team visited 15 of the 21 component audit Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and teams to attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the approach and findings with those local audit teams.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
For those countries not visited in the current year we maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their Separate opinion in relation to iFrSs as issued by the iASB audit work.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition The scope of our audit included the financial information of US RB to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs Pharmaceuticals for the period to 23 December 2014, the point of as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the Areas of focus IASB.
Valuation and completeness of customer trade spend accruals.
What we have audited Provision for uncertain tax exposures.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs financial statements comprise: Accounting for the RB Pharmaceuticals restructure and subsequent the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: demerger.
the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from regulatory Income for the year then ended: investigations.
the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Valuation of assets and liabilities in respect of the acquisition of the K-Y brand.
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The classification of non-recurring exceptional items.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements and are identified as audited.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in European Union.
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
our audit approach overview As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override materiality of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of Overall Group materiality was 107 million which represents 5% of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due continuing Group profit before tax and non-recurring exceptional to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and completeness of customer trade spend accruals Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the controls Refer to page 45 Audit Committee review of areas of significant and systems related to the trade spend process and selectively testing judgement and pages 77 and 80 accounting policies.
those controls on which we planned to rely.
Testing of controls included reviewing appropriate authorisation for annual contracts, segregation of As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates there duties over the creation and approval of the accruals and the resolution of are numerous types of complex commercial arrangements with retailers variations between actual and expected trade spend.
Our approach and other customers that have a range of terms such as promotions, combines testing managements controls and tests of detail and, where rebates and discounts.
applicable, additional substantive audit procedures to address specific areas of judgement.
Estimates of the obligations at a reporting date in connection with these arrangements trade spend accruals are material and can be As part of our review of component teams work the Group engagement judgemental.
These judgements impact the reported results of the team was specifically involved in determining the audit approach in this country, segment and the Group and in particular influence the calculation area to be satisfied that sufficient focus was placed on the more of Net revenue and Country operating profit, both of which are key judgemental areas.
As a result of this involvement we were satisfied that, performance indicators for management incentive schemes.
whilst complex, the area was well understood and sufficient focus was placed on this risk area.
Trade spend promotions have varying terms, some of which are supported by annual contracts or joint business plans, the others of which are based Audit procedures across individual countries included the following testing on shorter term arrangements entered into during the year.
In addition the on a sample basis: level and timing of promotions for individual stock keeping units varies Evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend balance by from period to period, and activity can span over a year end.
comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred: Agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting documentation We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of judgement such as joint business plans, signed contracts or EPOS data: required in order to derive the estimates: for example the date of shipment Testing trade spend transactions around the year end to determine to the retailer and period over which the promotion will run may differ, whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period: and and details of the retailers EPOS data may be required in order to determine the proportion of trade spend actually committed at the Recalculating managements estimates and obtaining and reading reporting date.
Accordingly our focus included whether the accruals were correspondence from customers confirming the existence of the complete, whether relevant spend was recorded in the correct period and promotions.
how the accruals were valued.
Provision for uncertain tax exposures We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and Refer to page 24 Strategic risks and page 45 Audit Committee review of Group transfer pricing policy and assessed key technical tax issues and areas of significant judgement.
risks related to business and legislative developments using, where applicable, our local and international tax specialist knowledge.
Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions it is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax We obtained explanations from management and obtained corroborative matters during the normal course of business including transaction related evidence, including communication with local tax authorities, details of tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements arising from centralised progress with Advanced Pricing Agreements and copies of tax advice functions that support a number of different countries.
obtained by management from its external tax advisors, regarding the tax treatment applied to material transactions and the corresponding Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, the Group provisions recorded.
establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the liability, or recovery.
We also challenged managements key assumptions: in particular in respect of transactions undertaken in the year or where there have been We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the significant developments with local tax authorities.
quantification and likelihood of these potential exposures and therefore the level of provisions required against them.
In particular we focused on We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures were the impact of changes in transfer pricing assumptions, which could appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
materially impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 66 Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the rB Pharmaceuticals restructure and subsequent The scope of our audit included the financial information of US RB demerger Pharmaceuticals for the period to 23 December 2014, which constituted Refer to pages 114 to 115 Demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals and Dividends approximately 71% of the RB Pharmaceuticals adjusted profit before tax.
We obtained managements analysis in support of whether the disposal of On 23 December 2014, the RB Pharmaceuticals business was demerged the RB Pharmaceuticals business meets the required criteria to be classified from the Group and separately listed on the London Stock Exchange.
A as a discontinued operation and formed our own independent assessment, gain on demerger of this business of 1,282 million has been recognised in which was consistent with managements.
We examined the items the Groups financial statements.
included within discontinued operations and determined that they appropriately represent the results of the RB Pharmaceuticals business up We focused on the key judgements made by management in accounting to the date of demerger.
for the transaction and the associated impact on the Groups financial statements including the calculation of the gain on demerger and whether We recalculated the gain on demerger by comparing the carrying value of the fair value of the business was appropriate, whether the financial the RB Pharmaceuticals business of 292 million to its fair value based statements include the trading of the business up to the point of demerger upon the actual share price of the demerged business.
We obtained an and the disclosure within the financial statements was appropriate.
analysis of direct transaction costs, primarily consultancy fees, that management had offset against the gain on demerger and evaluated whether their classification was appropriate, and agreed the costs to third party evidence such as invoices.
We also evaluated the disclosure within the Annual Report and financial statements to check that the prior year income statement had been correctly restated and the disclosure within the notes was sufficient and appropriate.
Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from regulatory We confirmed that, where applicable, our component teams held investigations discussions with in-country legal teams and sought audit evidence locally Refer to page 24 Strategic risks and page 103 Provisions for liabilities and which was then corroborated by the Group audit team with the Head of charges note.
Group Legal to understand the status of ongoing investigations, the associated risks and the basis for any provisions recorded.
The Group has been subject to a number of regulatory investigations, for example in respect of violations of antitrust and competition laws, and has We obtained and read correspondence with the relevant regulatory bodies recorded a provision for legal claims on the balance sheet of 201 million.
and examined legal documents that confirmed the existence of each There is a high level of management judgement associated with investigation.
determining the need for, and magnitude of, provisions for any liabilities arising from these investigations.
We obtained confirmations from managements external legal counsel and evaluated their description and assessment of the facts and circumstances We focused our audit procedures on the assumptions and judgements of the investigations and, where applicable, the potential outcome and made by management in determining the recognition and valuation of compared this to the explanations and details obtained from management associated provisions.
We also focused on whether there was sufficient and the internal legal team and found them to be consistent.
disclosure within the Annual Report in respect of the investigations and their potential impact on the financial statements.
Valuation of assets and liabilities in respect of the acquisition of We performed procedures over managements acquisition discounted cash the k-y brand flow model, used to determine the recoverable amount of the intangible Refer to page 114 Business acquisitions and disposal note.
assets, to assess whether the model and the key assumptions used were appropriate.
During the year the Group acquired the rights to the global K-Y brand trademarks from McNeil-PPC Inc with associated goodwill and intangibles.
We challenged the assumptions used by management through The accounting associated with the acquisition, specifically regarding the examination of the transaction agreements to check that they were complexity and subjectivity of the valuation of assets and liabilities at fair consistent with the assumptions used within the model, comparing the value, has been a focus of our audit.
model to Board approved cash flow forecasts and agreeing synergies recognised to Board approved business case models.
The ability to sell product in certain countries is still subject to competition clearance and we have assessed managements assumptions over whether control has been obtained and how this has impacted the fair value calculation of the goodwill and intangibles.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangibles asset impairment assessment We evaluated the process by which management prepared its cash flow Refer to page 45 Audit Committee review of areas of significant forecasts and compared them against the latest Board approved plans and judgement and pages 90 to 92 goodwill and other intangible management approved forecasts.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of assetsnote.
the plans and forecasts, for example, comparing the forecasts used in the prior year model to the actual performance of the business in the current The Group has goodwill of 3,258 million and other indefinite lived year.
These procedures enabled us to determine the accuracy of the intangible assets of 7,866 million as at 31 December 2014 which are forecasting process.
required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management has allocated these assets to individual cash generating units CGUs and We have also considered managements integration of the VMS and Sexual groups of CGUs GCGUs and there is judgement around how these are Wellbeing CGUs into the Health GCGU and consider this to be appropriate determined.
on the basis that the businesses have now been integrated operationally and that goodwill is now monitored at a Health GCGU level.
There is further judgement around the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell.
We have assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of the future including the specific risk factor adjustments applied to VMS and Oriental results and prospects of the business, the appropriate discount rates to be Pharma, and whether these are in line with industry and peer group applied and specific risk factors applied to the GCGUs and CGUs.
During the year management has integrated the key management and We challenged management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity operational functions of the VMS and Sexual Wellbeing businesses within calculations and also applied our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast the broader Health business.
This has resulted in the VMS and Sexual cash flows and long term growth rates to ascertain the extent to which Wellbeing goodwill being assessed within the aggregated Health GCGU in reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, line with the way that management is now monitoring these businesses.
require the impairment of goodwill.
The VMS and Sexual Wellbeing indefinite lived brands continue to have As a result of performing our work we determined that no impairment cash inflows that can be assessed independently at a lower level than that charges were required and that the indefinite lived brands acquired with at which goodwill is monitored.
VMS and Oriental Pharma are most sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
Management has described these sensitivities in the Due to VMS and Oriental Pharma being recently acquired the brands Goodwill and other intangible assets note to the Group financial remain sensitive to impairment.
The VMS and Oriental Pharma indefinite statements.
life CGUs are primarily concentrated in single markets, the US and China respectively, and therefore the key judgements in determining the recoverable amount are in respect of the forecast cash flows within these markets, the forecast market penetration outside of the US for the VMS brands and the use of appropriate discount rates.
The classification of non-recurring exceptional items We challenged managements rationale for the designation of certain Refer to page 77 Accounting policies and page 84 Analysis of net items as exceptional and assessed such items against the Groups operating expenses note for further details.
accounting policy and consistency of treatment with prior periods.
In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional We considered whether there were items that were recorded within items which are disclosed separately within the Income Statement and are underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in nature and excluded from managements reporting of the underlying results of the should have been included within exceptional items and found no such business.
The nature and use of these exceptional items is explained within the Group accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains or losses arising on acquisitions or disposals and costs resulting from non-recurring legal or regulatory matters.
This year the Group has identified 21 million of net exceptional items which primarily relate to Group-led restructuring costs, a loss on disposal of a business and a gain on the sale of a factory.
We focused on this area, specifically to assess whether the items identified by management meet the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, because the identification of such items requires judgement by the directors.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year on year reporting within the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 68 Financial Statements how we tailored the audit scope materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial The Group is primarily structured into three geographical regions being statements as a whole.
LAPAC North Asia, South East Asia, Australia & New Zealand and Latin America, RUMEA Russia & CIS, Middle East, North Africa & Turkey and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the sub-Saharan Africa and ENA North America, Central Europe, Northern financial statements as a whole as follows: Europe, Southern Europe and Western Europe.
There is also a separate segment for the Food business and up until the date of demerger, being overall Group materiality 23 December 2014, there was a separate segment for the RB 107 million 2013: 128 million.
Pharmaceuticals business which has been reported as a discontinued operation in the Financial Statements.
how we determined it 5% of continuing Group profit before tax and non-recurring exceptional Each Country within the aforementioned geographical regions and items.
businesses consists of a number of management reporting entities which are consolidated by Group management.
The Group financial statements rationale for benchmark applied are a consolidation of 769 reporting units representing the Groups Continuing profit before tax, adjusted for the impact of all non-recurring operating businesses within these geographic-based divisions and the exceptional items, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for centralised functions.
determining materiality and, we believe, is the metric most commonly used by the Shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups performance.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 76 reporting units from across the three geographic operating divisions and two units from the RB We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Pharmaceuticals business which required an audit of their complete misstatements identified during our audit above 6 million 2013: 6 financial information due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, These reporting units subject to audit accounted for 74% of the continuing warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items and 75% of the continuing Groups revenue.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, These 78 reporting units are audited by 21 component auditor teams.
The set out on page 63, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to Group engagement team visited 15 of the 21 local component teams to report having performed our review.
meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit teams.
For those As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is countries not visited we either attended the clearance meetings via a appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern conference call or had regular communication with the local teams both basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has before and after their audit.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings and adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it review and discussion of reporting received from local component teams, to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were together with the additional procedures performed at Group level signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of described below, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the the going concern basis is appropriate.
Group financial statements as a whole.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Our audit procedures at the Group level comprised auditing the these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue consolidation, the key head office entities such as the Treasury entity and as a going concern.
the Corporate and UK pension schemes due to their size.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 69 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc other required reporting responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Consistency of other information our responsibilities and those of the directors Companies Act 2006 opinion As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the statements: or Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to performing our audit: or any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the the statement given by the directors on page 63, in accordance with financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and disclosed: strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the section of the Annual Report on page 44, as required by provision We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing Adequacy of information and explanations received the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our both.
opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the responsibility.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently directors remuneration materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate governance statement other matter Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described report having performed our review.
mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 March 2015 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 70
