Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 183 Independent auditors report on financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Opinion on our audit of the consolidated and parent company Key audit matters financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV the Company Key audit matters are those that, in our professional judgment, were of most signicance in our audit of the consolidated and We have audited the accompanying 2014 financial statements of parent company financial statements.
We have communicated Reed Elsevier NV, based in Amsterdam.
The financial statements these key audit matters to the Audit Committees: the Audit include the consolidated financial statements and the company Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 89.
key audit matters are not a comprehensive reection of all In our opinion: matters discussed.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view consolidated and parent company financial statements as a whole of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV as at December 31, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 2014 and of its results and its cash flows in the year 2014 in separate opinion on these individual matters.
Given the nature of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV legal structure, the as adopted by the European Union EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of key audit matters, our assessed risks of material misstatement, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
application of materiality, overview of the scope of our group audit, the parent company financial statements give a true and fair and considerations regarding going concern for the combined view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier N. V. as at business equally applies to the audit of the consolidated and December 31, 2014 and of its result for the year 2014 in parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV.
See accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted page 132 for further details.
Accounting Practice and in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Responsibilities of Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors for the Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements comprise: Executive directors are responsible for the preparation and fair 1. the consolidated statement of financial position as at presentation of the financial statements in accordance with December 31, 2014: EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the report of the board in accordance with Part 9 of 2. the following statements for 2014: consolidated income Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Furthermore, executive directors statements, consolidated statement of comprehensive are responsible for such internal control as executive directors income, consolidated statement of cashows and consolidated determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statement of changes in equity: and statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 3. the related notes 1 to 18, including a summary of the significant due to fraud or error.
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
As part of the presentation of the financial statements, executive directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to The company financial statements comprise: continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting 1. the parent company profit and loss account for the year 2014: frameworks mentioned, executive directors should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting 2. the parent company balance sheet as at December 31, 2014: unless executive directors either intend to liquidate the company 3. the parent reconciliation of shareholders funds: and or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
4. notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting Executive directors should disclose events and circumstances policies and other explanatory information and the related that may cast significant doubt on the companys ability to continue notes 1 to 5. as a going concern.
The non executive directors are responsible for overseeing the Basis for Our Opinion companys financial reporting process.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those Our responsibility for the audit of the financial statements standards are further described in the Our responsibilities for the Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a audit of the financial statements section of our report.
manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit We are independent of the Company in accordance with the evidence for our opinion.
Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level assurance-opdrachten ViO and other relevant independence of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied and fraud.
with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
indd 183 06 03 2015 13:21 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 184 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our audit included: Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of Report of the Board and the Other Information the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch designing and performing audit procedures responsive to Civil Code concerning our obligation to report about the report of those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and the board and other data, we declare that: appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is whether the report of the board, to the extent we can assess, higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required of or the override of internal control.
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed.
obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the further we report that the report of the board report, audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an financial statements.
opinion on the effectiveness of the companys internal control.
Engagement evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and We were engaged by the Audit Committee as auditor of RELX the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related Group plc and as auditor of Reed Elsevier NV on 23 July 2014, for disclosures made by management.
the audit of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and have concluding on the appropriateness of managements use of the operated as statutory auditor since 1994. going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt Deloitte Accountants BV on the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
If we M. J. van der Vegte conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to Amsterdam draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures The Netherlands in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 25 February 2015 inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern.
evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures: and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with the non executive directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We provide the non executive directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence and communicated with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, including where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the non executive directors we determine those matters that were of most signicance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in ourauditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the publicinterest.
