Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 131 Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Opinion on our audit of the combined financial statements of combined statement of comprehensive income, thecombined Reed Elsevier statement of cash ows, the combined statement of financial In our opinion the combined financial statements: position, the combined statement of changes in equity, asummary of the significant accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
The give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Reed Elsevier PLC, financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Reed Elsevier NV, RELX Group plc, Elsevier Reed FinanceBV is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
and their subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures together the combined businesses as at 31 December 2014 and of We are independent of the combined businesses within the their profit and their cash flows for the year then ended: and meaning of the FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant have been properly prepared in accordance with International Dutch ethical requirements as included in Verordening op fide Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the gedragsen beroepsregels accountants VGBA and the European Union.
Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij We have audited the combined financial statements of the combined assurance opdrachten ViO and have fullled our other businesses which comprise the combined income statement, the responsibilities under those ethical requirements.
Key audit matters Our audit procedures relating to these matters were addressed in Key audit matters are those that, in our professional judgment, the context of our audit of the combined financial statements as a were of most signicance in our audit of the combined financial whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a statements.
They included the risks of material misstatement separate opinion on these individual matters.
which had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of The accounting policies and critical judgements made in respect resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement of these matters are included on pages 96 101. team.
We have communicated these key audit matters to the Audit Committees: the Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 89.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reection of all matters discussed.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW WE RESPONDED The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We have tested the operating effectiveness of managements intangible assets: internal controls in their review of the carrying values for goodwill The combined businesses had 4,981 million of goodwill and and acquired intangible assets including controls over the 2,384 million of acquired intangible assets as at 31 December valuation model and assumptions applied.
The quantum of these balances together with the We challenged management on the level at which goodwill is judgements required to be made when performing an impairment monitored and the identication of cash generating units.
This review have resulted in us considering this a significant risk.
included checking consistency with how goodwill is allocated and monitored by the businesses.
We challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model with certain key assumptions outlined in Note 14 to the combined financial statements.
Specically we challenged the cash ow projections, discount rate, perpetuity growth rates and sensitivities used, with assistance from our valuations experts where appropriate, by looking at external market data and assessing the historical accuracy of managements forecasting.
The carrying value of internally developed intangible assets in We tested the operating effectiveness of relevant internal controls accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets: related to the capitalisation of internally developed intangible The closing net book value of all capitalised development projects assets and their subsequent valuation, including the assessment is 780 million.
The quantum of these balances, the significant of useful economic lives.
level of additions, and the judgements required to be made when We have tested the amounts capitalised in the period to ensure performing an impairment review have resulted in us considering theright to capitalise is in accordance with the requirements of this a significant risk.
We also challenged managements assessment as to whether development projects in-progress were still expected todeliver sufficient positive economic benets to the combined businesses upon their completion, and for completed development projects, considered whether the useful economic lives selected remained appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue We have tested revenue recognition in each of the full scope audit recognition: and the accounting for multiple element locations including testing the associated internal controls.
arrangements: We performed analytical reviews on revenues recognised to The Groups businesses continue to evolve and new business identify any material new revenue streams and tested the timing models can result in new revenue arrangements.
This can result of recognition and accounting for multiple element arrangements in circumstances which require careful consideration to in accordance with IFRS.
We also focused our audit procedures determine how revenue should be recognised.
on the nature of revenues, the degree of automation, unusual contractual terms and the requirement for exercise of significant management judgement.
Our testing included agreeing amounts to customer contracts and, verifying the extent, timing and customer acceptance of delivery, where relevant.
indd 131 06 03 2015 12:43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 132 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW WE RESPONDED The valuation of amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions Our audit team was supported by tax experts in testing the The Group operates in a significant number of jurisdictions relevant uncertain tax positions, including assumptions and aroundthe world, all with differing tax regimes with complex estimates used, and tested the operating effectiveness of cross-border arrangements, and is therefore open to challenge managements relevant controls.
We considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions and estimates in relation to uncertain tax positions, challenging those assumptions and considering advice received by management from external parties to support their analysis and accounting for the uncertain tax position in accordance with IFRS.
The valuation of dened benefit pension liabilities We tested managements controls over the valuation of pension The combined businesses operate dened benefit pension liabilities.
schemes for existing and former employees in three main We engaged our actuarial specialists to assist in the auditing of jurisdictions.
The liabilities for these schemes are valued using managements assumptions used to value the pension liabilities.
data on scheme members and applying certain actuarial For each of the three main jurisdictions we considered the assumptions.
The gross pension liabilities total 4,977 million appropriateness of the assumptions both individually and when 2013: 4,360 million as set out in Note 5. combined with the other assumptions.
We performed testing on the member data used by managements actuaries to determine the valuation of the liabilities.
Our application of materiality which were also subject to a full scope audit, account for 92% of A misstatement arising from fraud or error will be considered the combined businesses net assets, 93% of the combined material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably businesses liabilities, 79% of the combined businesses revenue, be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on 89% of the combined businesses adjusted operating profit and the basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the 94% of the combined businesses profit before tax.
They were also nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit evaluation of the effect of identied misstatements on our opinion.
work to address the risks of material misstatement identied above.
The combined businesses audit team continued to follow a We have considered a number of benchmarks in order to guide our programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the determination of our materiality.
Based on our professional Audit Partners of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV visit the judgement, we determined materiality for the combined key locations.
The Audit Partners also attend audit close meetings businesses to be 85 million, which is around 7% of pre-tax profit with management of each of the groups four operating segments, and below 5% of equity.
We have also taken into account alongside the local auditors of the business units.
misstatements and or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical qualitative reasons.
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial Our audit work at the operating locations was executed at levels information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
ofmateriality lower than the materiality for the combined businesses and was capped at 30 million or $50 million.
We obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities and business activities to We agreed with the Audit Committees that we would report to express an opinion on the combined financial statements.
We are them all audit misstatements in excess of 1.7 million, as well as responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the smaller misstatements that, in our view, must be reported on group audit.
We remain responsible for our audit opinion.
Going concern An overview of the scope of our group audit The combined financial statements have been prepared using the Our audit of the combined financial statements was scoped by going concern basis of accounting.
In preparing the combined obtaining an understanding of the combined businesses and their financial statements, management is responsible for assessing environment, including the entity-wide controls, and assessing the combined businesses ability to continue as a going concern.
the risks of material misstatement at the combined businesses Based on the relevant financial reporting frameworks, level.
Based on that risk assessment, we designed and performed management should prepare the combined financial statements audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtained audit using the going concern basis of accounting unless management evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for either intends to liquidate the combined businesses or to cease our opinion.
In making those risk assessments, we considered operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair Management should disclose events and circumstances that may presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit cast significant doubt on the combined businesses ability to procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
As part of continue as a going concern.
an audit in accordance with the applicable standards, we exercised professional judgment and maintain professional We have reviewed the Report of the Boards on page 73 where the scepticism throughout the planning and performance of the audit.
Boards have not identied a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the combined businesses ability to continue Based on that assessment, our audit scope for the combined as a going concern.
We confirm that: businesses focused primarily on the audits of seventeen operating we have not identified material uncertainties related to events locations, which represent the principal business units within the or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the combined combined businesses four reportable segments.
These locations, businesses ability to continue as a going concern which we together with the combined businesses head ofce functions, 94118 Reed AR p091-134.
indd 132 06 03 2015 12:43 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 133 combined financial.
In addition, we read all the financial and believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited combined financial statements we have concluded that the Boards use of the going concern and to identify any information that is apparently materially basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge statements is appropriate.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become However, because not all future events or conditions can be aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the combined we consider the implications for our report.
businesses ability to continue as a going concern.
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the professional scepticism throughout the audit, in accordance date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions withISAs UK and Ireland, Dutch Standards on Auditing, may cause the combined businesses to cease to continue as a ethicalstandards and relevant independence requirements.
Ouraudit included: identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of Other matters the combined financial statements, whether due to fraud or The separate audit reports on the consolidated and stand-alone error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient which have been audited under locally adopted auditing standards and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of and which include the other opinions required by local laws and not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is regulations, appear on pages 162 and 183. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities or the override of internal control: statement, the Boards are responsible for the preparation and fair obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the presentation of the combined financial statements in accordance audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an the European Union and for being satisfied that they give a true and opinion on the effectiveness of the combined businesses fair view and for such internal control as they determine is internal control: necessary to enable the preparation of combined financial concluding on the appropriateness of managements use of the statements that are free from material misstatement, whether going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit due to fraud or error.
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists The Audit Committees assist the respective Boards in overseeing related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt the combined businesses financial reporting process.
on the combined businesses ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we Our Responsibility for the audit of the financial statements are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such combined financial statements in accordance with International disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as issued by the United conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and Dutch Law, including the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or Dutch Standards on Auditing.
We believe that the audit evidence conditions may cause the combined businesses to cease to we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis continue as a going concern: for our opinion.
evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of We are required to communicate with the Audit Committees the financial statements, including the disclosures: and regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of evaluating whether the combined financial statements the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We are also required to provide the Audit Committees with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical Engagement requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with We were engaged by the Audit Committees as auditor of Reed them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be Elsevier PLC and as auditor of Reed Elsevier NV for the audit of thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable thenancial year ended 31 December 2014 and have operated as related safeguards.
Scope of the audit of the combined financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Graham Richardson Senior statutory auditor M. J. van der Vegte disclosures in the combined financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the combined financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or For and on behalf of: error.
Reasonable assurance does not provide an absolute level of Deloitte LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. assurance which means we may not have detected all errors and Chartered Accountants Amsterdam fraud.
An audit includes an assessment of: whether the accounting and Statutory Auditor The Netherlands policies are appropriate to the combined businesses London, United Kingdom circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 25 February 2015 25 February 2015 disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the 94118 Reed AR p091-134.
indd 133 06 03 2015 12:43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 134 COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94118 Reed AR p091-134.
