FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 162 AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC Opinion on our audit of the consolidated and parent company In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC the Company in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is In our opinion: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the consolidated profit and their cash flows for the year then ended: implications for our report.
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor EuropeanUnion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the the parent company financial statements have been properly financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Accepted Accounting Practice and in accordance with the on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the financial statements have been prepared in accordance standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality We have audited the consolidated financial statements which controls and systems include our dedicated professional comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated standards review team and independent partner reviews.
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated cash ow statement, the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in consolidated statement of changes in equity, a summary of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. consolidated accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 17.
The Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their companys members those matters we are required to state to preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility adopted by the European Union.
The parent company financial to anyone other than the company and the companys members as statements comprise the parent company balance sheet, the a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we parent company reconciliation of shareholders funds, a summary have formed.
of the parent company significant accounting policies and the We are required to communicate with the Audit Committee related notes 1-3.
The financial reporting framework that has regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of been applied in their preparation of the parent company financial the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We are also required to provide the Audit Committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical Our assessment of risks of material misstatement, application requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with of materiality and overview of the scope of our audit them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be Given the nature of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable legal structure, our assessment of risks of material related safeguards.
misstatement, materiality and audit scoping for the Combined Businesses equally applies to the audit of the parent company and Going Concern the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors Seepage 132 for further details.
statement contained on page 73 that the Company is a going concern.
We confirm that given the nature of the Reed Elsevier Scope of the audit of the financial statements PLC and Reed Elsevier NV legal structure, our assessment of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and combined businesses ability to continue as a going concern disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give equally applies to the parent company and the consolidated reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are However, because not all future events or conditions can be appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the ability to continue as a going concern.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 162 06 03 2015 13:17 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 163 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired In our opinion: during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters Act 2006: and that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors of these matters.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Graham Richardson Senior statutory auditor are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: For and on behalf of we have not received all the information and explanations we Deloitte LLP require for our audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent United Kingdom company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 25 February 2015 received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
