86 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc The risk Goodwill acquired in a We challenged the Groups selection of 0QJOJPOT BOE DPODMVTJPOT business combination is allocated the discount rates used by considering BSJTJOH GSPN PVS BVEJU to the Groups Cash Generating the assumptions underlying the Units CGUs, which are aligned calculation of each discount rate: using 0VS PQJOJPO PO UIe fiOBODJBM with the statutory entities acquired.
external data including competitor TUBUFNFOUT JT VONPEifieE The recoverable amounts of the CGUs analysis to determine an appropriate We have audited the financial statements are determined from value in use range for each type of business and of Renishaw plc for the year ended calculations and where the carrying comparing the actual rate used to 30thJune 2014 set out on pages value of a CGU exceeds its recoverable that range.
In our opinion: amount an impairment charge is the financial budgets and forecasts, required.
The Group has engaged in we assessed whether the growth t the financial statements give a true a number of business combinations in rate used was consistent with both and fair view of the state of the recent years: a number of acquisitions historical performance and future Groups and of the parent companys are still in the research and development business strategies.
affairs as at 30th June 2014 and of the phase and have not yet started trading: Groups profit for the year then ended: We evaluated the Groups sensitivity this makes forecasting inherently analysis, by performing our own more judgemental.
t the group financial statements have analysis to assess the sensitivity of the been properly prepared in accordance Adverse changes in assumptions, impairment reviews to changes in the with International Financial Reporting particularly relating to forecast cash key assumptions of the discount rate, Standards as adopted by the ows and discount rates, could reduce the forecast cash ows and growth rate European Union IFRSs as adopted by the recoverable amount below the beyond the financial budgets.
the EU : carrying amount, and give rise to an We assessed the adequacy of the t the parent company financial impairment charge.
The forecasting Groups disclosures in respect of the of cash ows and the selection of an statements have been properly impairment testing of goodwill and prepared in accordance with UK appropriate discount rate are therefore whether disclosures about the sensitivity key judgemental areas that our audit is Accounting Standards: and of the outcome of the impairment concentrated on.
assessment to changes in key t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Our response In this area our audit assumptions properly reected the risks procedures included, among others, inherent in it.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group evaluating the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecast financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
cash ows are based by performing an assessment of the historical 0VS BTTFTTNFOU PG SJTLT PG accuracy of budgets for trading NBUFSJBM NJTTUBUFNFOU entities by comparing previously budgeted gures to actual results.
In arriving at our audit opinion above We also critically assessed the on the financial statements, the risks ongoing forecasts for companies in the of material misstatement that had research and development phase, by the greatest effect on our audit were considering the assumptions adopted as follows.
by the directors when preparing the i Carrying value of goodwill 19.7m forecasts for these entities and taking into account the experience of the Refer to page 72 Audit committee Group at maturing past research and report, page 97 accounting development companies into profitable policy and pages 104 and 105 trading entities.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 87 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 ii Carrying value of work in progress Detailed audit instructions were sent 0VS BQQMJDBUJPO PG NBUFSJBMJUZ 15.3m and nished goods 24.8m to all the auditors in these locations.
BOE BO PWFSWJFX PG UIF TDPQF PG These instructions covered the PVS BVEJU Refer to page 72 Audit committee significant audit areas that should The materiality for the financial report, page 99 accounting policy and be covered by these audits which statements as a whole was set at page 110 financial disclosures.
included the relevant risks of material 5.0m.
This has been determined misstatement detailed above and The risk There are significant inventory with reference to a benchmark of total holdings throughout the Group: in the set out the information required to be revenue, which we consider to be reported back to the group audit team.
key manufacturing centres in the UK, one of the principal considerations for Ireland and India and sales ofces Telephone meetings were also held with members of the Company in assessing the auditors at all locations.
Due to the fast paced the financial performance of the Group.
nature of the industry there is a risk of Materiality represents 1.4% of group 0VS PQJOJPO PO PUIFS NBUUFST product obsolescence.
"revenue and 5.2% of group profit QSFTDSJCFE CZ UIF $PNQBOJFT ""DU before tax."
The Group maintains an inventory JT VONPEifieE provision for potential product We agreed with the Audit committee to In our opinion: obsolescence to the extent that report to it all corrected and uncorrected the cost of inventory is not deemed t the part of the Directors remuneration misstatements we identied through to be recoverable through future report to be audited has been our audit with a value in excess of sales.
This provision is calculated properly prepared in accordance with 0.2m, in addition to other audit at a disaggregated level based on the Companies Act 2006: misstatements below that threshold the historic and future forecast sales that we believe warranted reporting on t the information given in the Strategic patterns of individual stock items.
report and the directors report for the These assumptions are judgemental and financial year for which the financial Audits for group reporting purposes changes could have a material impact statements are prepared is consistent were performed by component auditors on the calculation of the provision.
with the financial statements: and at the key reporting components in the Our response In this area our audit following countries: Ireland, Hong Kong, t the information given in the Directors procedures included, among others, Germany and Japan and by the group corporate governance report critically assessing the adequacy of the audit team in the following countries: the set out on pages 67 and 68 with Groups provisions against inventory UK and the USA.
In addition, specified respect to internal control and risk by identifying slow moving line items, audit procedures were performed management systems in relation to considering whether these items should by component auditors in China.
financial reporting processes and be provided for by comparison to the These group procedures covered 97% on page 83 about share capital most recent sales invoices for those of total group revenue: 96% of group structure is consistent with the items.
We also challenged the Groups profit before taxation: and 96% of total financial statements.
assumptions in respect of the provision group assets.
The segment disclosures calculation by assessing historical in note 2 to the financial statements accuracy of the inventory provision.
set out the individual signicance of specic regions.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the The audits undertaken for group inventory provision.
reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.1m to 3.0m.
88 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued t the parent company financial 8F IBWF OPUIJOH UP SFQPSU JO 4DPQF PG SFQPSU BOE statements and the part of the SFTQFDU PG UIF NBUUFST PO XIJDI XF SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT Directors remuneration report to be BSF SFRVJSFE UP SFQPSU CZ FYDFQUJPO audited are not in agreement with the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are As explained more fully in Directors accounting records and returns: or required to report to you if, based on responsibilities set out on page 85, the knowledge we acquired during t certain disclosures of directors the directors are responsible for the our audit, we have identied other remuneration specified by law are not preparation of the financial statements information in the Annual report that made: or and for being satisfied that they give a contains a material inconsistency with true and fair view.
A description of the t we have not received all the either that knowledge or the financial scope of an audit of financial statements information and explanations we statements, a material misstatement is provided on the Financial Reporting require for our audit: or offact, or that is otherwise misleading.
uk t a corporate governance statement auditscopeukprivate.
This report is In particular, we are required to report made solely to the Companys members has not been prepared by toyou if: the Company.
as a body and is subject to important t we have identied material explanations and disclaimers regarding Under the Listing Rules we are required inconsistencies between the our responsibilities, published on to review: knowledge we acquired during our our website at www.
com uk audit and the directors statement auditscopeukco2013a, which are t the directors statement, set out on that they consider that the annual incorporated into this report as if set out page 67, in relation to going concern: report and financial statements in full and should be read to provide an and taken as a whole is fair, balanced understanding of the purpose of this t the part of the corporate governance and understandable and provides report, the work we have undertaken statement on page 69 relating to the the information necessary for and the basis of our opinions.
Companys compliance with the nine shareholders to assess the Groups provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate performance, business model and Governance Code specified for strategy: or Virginia Stevens our review.
Senior Statutory Auditor t the Audit committee report does We have nothing to report in respect for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, not appropriately address matters ofthe above responsibilities.
Statutory Auditor communicated by us to the Audit committee.
Chartered Accountants 100 Temple Street Under the Companies Act 2006, Bristol we are required to report to you if, BS1 6AG inour opinion: 23rd July 2014 t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or
