Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc Provisions for tax contingencies Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report and Note A13 accounting 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified policy and financial disclosures We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 82 to 141.
The risk: The group holds a number of provisions for outstanding tax In our opinion: contingencies which arise in the normal course of business.
The group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and there are therefore the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the complexities in transfer pricing and other international tax legislation groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December issues for consideration.
In addition tax matters usually take a significant 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: length of time to be agreed with the tax authorities and as such the the group financial statements have been properly prepared in recognition of these tax provisions requires judgements and estimates to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as be made in respect of the outcomes of the tax authority investigations.
adopted by the European Union: Our response: With regard to the tax contingencies, we have the Parent Company financial statements have been properly performed the following with the assistance of our tax specialists: prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and assessed the groups tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and its external tax advisors and analysed and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the challenged the assumptions used to determine tax provisions using requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group our knowledge and experiences of the application of the international financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of tax In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the and uncertain tax positions.
risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit Recognition of UK deferred tax assets were as follows: Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report and Note A14 accounting Impairment assessment and testing of cash-generating units policy and financial disclosures that include goodwill and acquired intangible assets including The risk: The group has significant recognised and unrecognised customer lists and relationships and brands : carrying values of deferred tax assets in respect of losses within the UK.
There is inherent 291.0m and 100.3m respectively uncertainty involved in both evaluating the accessibility of the tax Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report and Note B4 accounting losses and estimating the quantum of future taxable profits.
This is policy and financial disclosures exacerbated by the nature of the future UK income and as the losses The risk: The group has significant carrying amounts of both goodwill are spread across several different tax entities.
There is also judgement and acquired intangible assets.
These balances are spread across a in determining the forecast period which also determines the extent to range of cash-generating units in different countries.
which deferred tax assets are or are not recognised.
A value-in-use model is used for impairment testing.
The estimation Our response: In this area our audit procedures included analysing of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units requires significant the judgements applied in assessing the likelihood of the utilisation judgement in relation to the appropriate discount rates, growth rates, of deferred tax assets and the appropriateness of the assumptions terminal values, and forecast cash flows.
Changes to the assumptions regarding the forecast period.
We have involved our own tax applied to the model, for example a change in the discount rate, have specialists in testing the underlying methodology and the mathematical the potential to significantly affect the impairment testing result.
accuracy of the taxable profit forecast models used to estimate the future use of deferred tax assets through assessment and challenge Our response: In this area our audit procedures included testing of of the key input assumptions primarily UK taxable profit forecasts and the groups underlying methodology upon which the forecasts are the term covered by the model to information derived internally by the based and the principles and integrity of the groups discounted cash group and taking into account our knowledge and experience of the flow model.
We instructed local auditors to evaluate the procedures application of relevant tax legislation.
undertaken to identify indicators of impairment in the year.
Our testing of the goodwill impairment models included challenge of the We also assessed whether the groups disclosures about the long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions by comparison sensitivity of the recognition of deferred tax assets to changes in key to externally derived data such as projected economic growth rates, assumptions reflected the associated inherent risks.
discount rate inputs and inflation rates, as well as performing break- 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope even analysis on the assumptions.
We challenged the assumptions ofour audit relating to forecast revenue growth and profit margins by comparison The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set to the historical performance of the cash-generating unit and to the at 7.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before forecast approved by the Board.
taxation from continuing operations of which it represents 5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 250,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 80 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc continued The components within the scope of our work accounted for the In particular, we are required to report to you if: following percentages of the groups results: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that Group Group profit before tax absolute they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements revenue from continuing operations taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Audits for group reporting the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups purposes 54% 64% performance, business model and strategy: or Detailed audit procedures over all significant accounts 27% 13% the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee section of the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters Total 81% 77% communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This audit work was performed by 16 audit teams in 14 different inour opinion: countries covering 91 reporting units.
The work on 64 of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 91 components in scope for the group audit was performed by company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received component auditors and the rest by the group audit team.
from branches not visited by us: or The remaining 19% of total group revenue, 23% of group profit the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the before tax absolute from continuing operations and 19% of total Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement group assets is represented by individually insignificant reporting with the accounting records and returns: or components, none of which individually represented more than certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are 2% ofany of total group revenue, total group profit before tax not made: or absolute from continuing operations or total group assets.
For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level we have not received all the information and explanations we require to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the the Directors statement, set out on page 144, in relation to going significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed concern: and above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 44 relating approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1mto to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 2.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the group UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
The group audit team visited four component locations: France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the US, to meet with the component Scope and responsibilities auditors and review the findings, as well as to assess the audit risk As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with set out on page 145, the Directors are responsible for the preparation those component auditors visited and all others in scope for group of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a reporting that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was at www.
This report is made solely thenperformed by the component auditor.
to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which Act 2006 is unmodified are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read In our opinion: to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has wehave undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which Chartered Accountants we are required to report by exception 15 Canada Square Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based London on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified E14 5GL other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 26 February 2015 inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Financial Statements 81 Financial Statements Strategic Report Our business 2 Rentokil Initial at a glance 3 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 4 2014 performance 8 Our business model 9 Differentiated strategy 10 Markets key drivers and considerations 11 Strategy in action 13 Business overview 18 Key performance indicators 19 Growth levers 21 Business review Regional performance 26 Business review Hygiene 29 Business review Pest control 30 Business review Workwear 32 Corporate responsibility 33 Risks and uncertainties 36 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 40 Executive Leadership Team 42 Chairmans Statement 43 Corporate Governance Report 44 Audit Committee Report 52 Nomination Committee Report 58 Directors Remuneration Report 60 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rentokil Initial plc 79 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement 82 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 83 Consolidated Balance Sheet 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 85 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 87 Notes to the Accounts 88 Principal Operating Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings 133 Five-Year Summary 134 Parent Company Balance Sheet 135 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 136 Additional Information Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 143 Additional Shareholder Information 146 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
