Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 55 Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Funds and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting The Restaurant Group plc framework that has been applied in the preparation of the In our opinion: Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state framework that has been applied in the preparation of the of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at parent company financial statements is applicable law and 28 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom then ended: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Going concern Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the parent company financial statements have been directors statement that the Group is a going concern.
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom We confirm that: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and we have concluded that the Directors use of the going the financial statements have been prepared in accordance concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as financial statements is appropriate: and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS we have not identified any material uncertainties that may Regulation.
cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance However, because not all future events or conditions can be Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent ability to continue as a going concern.
Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are the most quantitatively To audit the risk of potential fixed asset impairment our audit significant item on the balance sheet with a net book value procedures included the following: at 28 December 2014 of 368.6 million see note 11 to the We challenged managements identification of CGUs and financial statements whether it is appropriate given the requirements in IAS 36, The fixed asset balance is primarily comprised of freehold Impairment of assets.
Specifically we considered whether and leasehold buildings and the plant and equipment therein it is appropriate to treat certain sites together in clusters, that support the Groups restaurant operations.
There are given their location and impact of customers.
We also considered the indicators of impairment identified The assessment of the carrying value of tangible fixed assets by management, if any, and performed an analysis to requires evaluating whether any indicators of impairment challenge their assumptions.
We did this by analysing exist in the asset base by reference to expected future historical and budgeted branch performance, benchmarking profitability of cash generating units CGUs within the with comparator sites for example those sites of similar size restaurant estate.
or in similar locations such as town centres or retail parks.
This is recognised as a critical judgement in the accounting In addition, we held discussions with business heads and policies on page 61 of the financial statements.
sought evidence to support assumptions of improved profitability supporting the asset value.
56 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Lease accounting The Group operates a significant number of leasehold sites To test the classification of leases, our audit procedures with varying lease terms.
focussed on a substantive sample of leases, including new leases.
We evaluated the lease terms against the The accounting for leases involves the exercise of judgement criteria in IAS 17, Leases and considered whether the particularly whether the leases meet the definition of an risks and rewards support managements classification.
The Group primarily operates operating leases.
If these were incorrectly classified the For onerous leases we challenged the judgements associated assets would be capitalised and there would be supporting leases identified as onerous and considered depreciation and finance charges in the Income Statement completeness by reference to site trading performance.
with a commensurate reduction in operating rent paid.
We also tested the onerous lease calculation to supporting evidence, including the lease terms.
Discount rates used This judgement is recognised as a critical judgement in the were also assessed for appropriateness.
accounting policies on page 61 of the financial statements.
Obligations under operating leases are disclosed in note 24.
There is also judgement in the identification of potentially onerous leases and whether any provision is required under IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Provisions for onerous leases are disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements.
Recognition of commercial discounts The restaurant business uses a wide range of suppliers.
It is We held meetings with those negotiating commercial typical for suppliers to be on term contracts mostly annual discount arrangements to identify the types of deal in place.
and as part of the process to agree the contract, it is common Our substantive testing focussed on completeness of for price discounts to be agreed.
These principally take the discount arrangements, cut-off and the appropriate form of rebates for meeting quantitative volume targets.
recognition in the financial year by sampling contracts and The recognition of commercial discounts in the Income comparing suppliers with discount arrangements and Statement is a risk given their scale and, in certain cases, amounts recognised in prior periods.
the judgement that is required in calculating the discount.
With reference to ageing of amounts outstanding, we have Commercial discounts should be recognised in accordance also assessed the reasonableness of any provisions held with negotiated supplier contracts and over the correct against commercial discounts receivable.
period to which they relate.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 57 Last year our report included one other risk relating to the Based on this assessment our Group audit scope focused impairment of goodwill all of which relates to the Pub on the Groups head office in London and the accounting restaurant business.
We have not included this as a key risk function in Chester, which were subject to a full audit.
This in our report this year as the growth in and continued represents 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profitability of the Pub restaurant business has increased profit before tax.
Our audit work was executed at levels of headroom and consequently it has not had a great impact materiality applicable to each individual subsidiary entity, on our audit strategy or allocation of resources.
which were lower than Group materiality.
All audit work done across all components was carried out by the Group The description of risks above should be read in conjunction audit team.
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 53.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed In our opinion: in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts has been properly prepared in accordance with the or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not Companies Act 2006: and modified with respect to any of the risks described above, the information given in the Strategic Report and the and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Our application of materiality financial statements.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Matters on which we are required to report decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be by exception changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report our work.
to you if, in our opinion: We determined materiality for the Group to be 4m, which is we have not received all the information and explanations approximately 5% of statutory pre-tax profit adjusted for the we require for our audit: or one-off exceptional gain on disposal of the associate, Living adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Ventures, and below 2% of equity.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This is a change of approach from 2013 in order to align more the parent company financial statements are not in closely with comparable companies.
In 2013 we used a agreement with the accounting records and returns.
materiality of 5.4m which was approximately 7.5% of statutory profit before tax and equated to 3% of equity.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Directors remuneration the Committee all audit differences in excess of 80,000 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report 2013: 108,000, as well as differences below that threshold if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Corporate Governance Statement Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK at the Group level.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
58 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give in the annual report is: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting financial statements: or policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Companys circumstances and have been consistently inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of in the course of performing our audit: or significant accounting estimates made by the directors: otherwise misleading.
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial In particular, we are required to consider whether we have information in the annual report to identify material identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to acquired during the audit and the directors statement that identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Mark Lee-Amies, FCA Senior statutory auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation London, United Kingdom of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they 27 February 2015 give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
