88 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC OUR OPINION In our opinion, Rexam PLCs consolidated financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Rexam PLCs financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of principal accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall Group materiality: 18 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, and the fair value changes on certain operating derivatives.
We conducted audit work over the complete financial information of all four sectors, Beverage Cans Europe, Materiality Beverage Cans North America, Beverage Cans South America, Beverage Cans Africa Middle East & Asia and the Group head office.
In addition we carried out specific audit procedures at the Groups service centre in Charlotte and over the Audit scope accounting for the Groups disposal of Healthcare.
The components that are part of our audit scope, as set out above, account for 100% of Group revenues and 100% of Group profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value Areas of adjustment on derivatives.
focus We focused on the following areas: Significant contracts entered into by the Group Goodwill impairment assessment Provision for tax exposures The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 89 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Significant contracts entered into by the Group Refer to page 57 Audit & Risk Committee Report and page 99 We tested the Groups process for approving significant contracts Principal Accounting Policies.
including reviewing board papers approving significant new customer and supplier contracts.
The Groups businesses model contains an increasingly consolidated customer and supplier base.
The Group enters into long-term contracts We examined significant new contracts, in particular those whose with both customers and suppliers, sometimes on a global basis.
We terms became effective in 2014, thereby triggering accounting in focused on these contracts as they underpin a significant portion of the financial statements for the year, and discussed the terms of the the Groups revenues and costs.
The nature of contracts entered into includes a number of characteristics We performed procedures to test whether up front payments received that require judgement to be applied in determining the appropriate from suppliers or made to customers were recognised in the income accounting based on the contractual terms.
statement in accordance with the nature of the payment and in the proper period, based on: Our audit procedures focused, in particular, on the following contractual judgements: evaluating the contract terms and when those terms become effective: and the accounting for up-front payments including the nature of the payment new contract or extension of an existing contract and the nature of the payment and the prevailing accounting guidance.
the appropriate amortisation period over which the payment We tested the calculation of customer rebates by checking volumes is recognised: used in the calculation of the rebate to actual volumes and against the calculation of annual customer rebates including whether any other obligations set out in the relevant contract terms and contractual volume targets and other criteria for payment receipt concluded all amounts were accurately based on actual volumes.
have been met: With respect to take or pay obligations present in both supplier and the application of contractual take or pay obligations in both customer contracts, we tested the volumes purchased and sold and supplier and customer contracts, in particular assumptions over concluded that there are no onerous supply contracts and any whether contractual commitments have given rise to any onerous revenue from customers based on contract minimums was supply contracts and any revenue due from customers based on appropriately earned.
agreed contract minimums: and To evaluate whether the pricing terms in supplier and customer the identification and treatment of embedded derivatives within the contracts modify the cash flows such that an embedded derivative contracts based on pricing terms and expected contract cash flows, should be accounted for separately from the contract, we discussed and whether such derivatives have been accounted for separately the terms of the contracts with the Rexam treasury team, and based in accordance with applicable accounting requirements.
on our own assessment of the terms and the expected contract cash flows, we are satisfied that where required embedded derivatives We undertake these procedures to ensure that revenue and costs within the contracts are accounted for correctly.
arising from these contracts are recognised in the correct period.
Goodwill impairment assessment Refer to page 57 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 99 Principal We evaluated and challenged the Directors future cash flow forecasts Accounting Policies and page 115 notes.
used to assess the carrying value of goodwill with particular focus on Turkey, Egypt, Russia and Brazil.
This included understanding The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2014 is 1,218 million.
the process by which they were drawn up and comparing them to In determining whether there was a risk of impairment we focused on the latest Board approved three-year plans and which we found to the estimated values in use in the following territories each representing be consistent.
We also tested the mechanics of the underlying value a cash generating unit : Turkey 38 million goodwill, Egypt 28 million in use calculations.
goodwill, Russia 23 million goodwill and Brazil 194 million We tested managements budgeting accuracy in respect of budgeted goodwill as these territories are considered to be those where there is a profit for the 2014 year end for evidence of the reliability of the Groups heightened risk of political or economic volatility and hence the budgeting process and where differences were noted we understood calculation of the value in use for these businesses requires the drivers and included this within our sensitivity analysis.
management to apply an increased level of judgement.
We challenged the Directors key assumptions for the long-term growth In particular we focused on the impact of key assumptions around: rates and the discount rates in the cash flow forecasts comparing The cash flow forecasts derived from internal forecasts and the against our own independently determined acceptable ranges and assumptions around performance of new contracts and major where differences were identified these did not change the conclusion customers.
for any of the territories.
The discount rate and the long term growth rate including the We performed sensitivity analysis over the forecast cash flows by assessment of risk factors and growth expectations of the considering the status of global bids, commercial performance of relevant territory.
major customers, and comparing growth targets against historic performance and market data.
Given the risk of volatility we The key assumptions for these businesses are set out in note 12. ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill in these businesses to be impaired.
We considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising, noting no such reasonably likely scenario.
We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made regarding the assumptions.
90 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC CONTINUED Provision for tax exposures Refer to page 57 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 99 Principal We involved our teams in the relevant jurisdictions who have knowledge Accounting Policies and page 111 notes.
of the local tax law, including any updates to, and developments in, the application of those laws, to understand the extent of the exposure The Group operates in a number of territories and recognises tax arising from the Groups arrangements and the rationale for existing provisions based on interpretation of local laws and regulations provisions held.
Where relevant we also considered the history of past which are sometimes uncertain.
experience of the accuracy of the directors estimates of potential The Group has established provisions against uncertain tax positions, exposures, by comparing to actual settlements and found the particularly in Brazil, Russia, the US and the UK.
These provisions current provisioning to be consistent with that experience.
require director judgement in estimating the potential outcome, We considered the views of the Groups external advisers on these including magnitude.
We met with senior management and challenged the judgements specific to each exposure and jurisdiction and evaluated the appropriateness of the provisions made and found the directors estimates to be reasonable based on the correspondence and other information obtained.
How we approached the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the geographic structure of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the 53 Beverage Can plants, including one associate and one joint venture, which report into a centralised finance function for each of the four geographical sectors in which the Group operates.
The service centre in Charlotte carries out transaction processing for Beverage Cans North America and reports to the Group finance team.
The sectors and the service centre maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Group finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the sectors.
In each geographical sector we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that sector.
Those teams, with our involvement, determined the individual Beverage Can plants within that sector to be audited based on their individual financial significance to the sector and Group.
In relation to the Charlotte shared service centre we instructed specified audit procedures to be performed over the balances and transactions processed in that location that were material to the Group.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group team engagement leader visited three sector finance functions to obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising.
The Healthcare business, which was a separate sector in the prior year, was disposed during the year with the disposal accounting carried out by the UK Group finance team.
The UK Group engagement team carried out all audit procedures over the Healthcare disposal.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement items accounted for centrally, including derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, goodwill impairment, and share based payments were also audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 100% of Group revenues and 100% of Group profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 91 Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 18 million 2013: 20 million How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, and the fair value changes on certain operating derivatives Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the key measure used by the shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups performance.
We consider that excluding exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives is appropriate as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2013: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 84, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Code Provision C. 1.1, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 57 to 62, as required by We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Code Provision C. 3.8, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC CONTINUED Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2015
