Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  in relation to Australian legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC order dated 9 January 2015 the ASIC Order for Rio Tinto Limited.
Report on the financial statements Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to the members of Rio Tinto plc In our opinion: The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the : the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union: the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion of  LLP in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion of  on the financial report to the members of Rio Tinto Limited In our opinion: the financial report of Rio Tinto Limited is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: i. giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2014 and of its performance for the year ended on that date: ii.
complying with the Australian Accounting Standards including the Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Corporations Regulations 2001: and The Groups financial report also complies with IFRSs as disclosed in note 1.
What we have audited The Rio Tinto Group financial statements comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: notes 1 46 to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information: the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements: and the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
The Groups financial statements and the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements are referred to in this report as the financial statements.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
 LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Rio Tintoplc company balance sheet and the related notes.
 has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards and the Rio Tinto Limited financial report, which comprises the financial statements and the Directors declaration on page 184.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom, applicable law in Australia as amended by the ASIC Order described in the Annual Report under the heading Australian Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: $600 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Scope We identified 3 business units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Those business units were Hamersley Iron, Robe River and Escondida.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 14 business units.
Areas of focus Impairment assessments including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal of indefinite-lived intangible assets Rio Tinto Alcan and property, plant & equipment both Rio Tinto Alcan and Oyu Tolgoi.
Taxation including provisions for uncertain tax positions and accounting for the consequences of the repeal of the Mineral Resource Rent Tax MRRT.
Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
Impact of finance transformation, including shared services transition, on the control environment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards ASAs.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment reversal of impairment assessment Rio Tinto has goodwill of $1,228 million, indefinite-lived intangible assets of We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements $1,981 million and property, plant & equipment of $68,693 million as at identification of the Groups CGUs and controls over the impairment 31 December 2014, contained within 54 cash generating units CGUs.
assessment process, including indicators of impairment and Impairment charges to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, impairment reversal.
plant & equipment have been recognised in prior periods.
We benchmarked key market related assumptions in managements For the CGUs which contain Rio Tintos goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets valuation models, including commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and and property, plant and equipment, the determination of recoverable amount, discount rates, against external data where available, using our valuations being the higher of value-in-use and , requires expertise.
judgement on the part of management in both identifying and then valuing the We verified the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreed relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of relevant data to the latest Life of Mine production plans and budgets.
variables such as future commodity prices, timing and approval of future capital and operating expenditure and the most appropriate discount rate.
For Oyu Tolgoi we also read the latest feasibility study and assessed through sensitivity analysis the potential impact of further delays to the restart of the All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be underground project.
tested for impairment on an annual basis.
In assessing potential impairment reversals within the Primary Metal Pacific Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets Aluminium CGU of Rio Tinto Alcan, we considered the sustainability of cost including property, plant & equipment when impairment indicators are identified.
improvements and regional and product price premia in the determination of As at 30 September 2014, being managements testing date, the Oyu Tolgoi CGU the CGUs recoverable amount.
had a carrying value of $8,163 million and management identified an impairment indicator due to the ongoing delays in the development of the underground We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 of the project and therefore performed a full impairment assessment to determine the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to recoverable amount of these assets.
As well as considering indicators of impairment, for assets other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets management must determine whether any indicators of reversal of previous impairments are apparent.
In particular, for certain business units within Rio Tinto Alcan, management assessed whether previously recorded impairments against property, plant & equipment should be reversed in light of improved profitability and cash flows.
Refer to note 6 for managements conclusions.
com 187 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation Provisions for uncertain tax positions: We assessed the Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the related accounting policy of provisioning for tax exposures.
The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the We used our specialist tax knowledge to gain an understanding of the current normal course of business including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and status of tax investigations and monitored changes in ongoing disputes by transaction related tax matters.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group has current reading recent rulings and correspondence with local tax authorities, as well and non-current taxes payable of $1,170 million.
Where the amount of tax as external advice received by the Group where relevant, to establish that the payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions based on the tax provisions had been appropriately adjusted to reflect the latest external Groups judgement of the probable amount of the liability or recovery.
Minerals Resource Rent Tax: We verified the accuracy of the utilisation of the MRRT deferred tax asset from 1 January 2014 to the date of repeal and the subsequent write-off of the In 2014 the Australian government repealed the Minerals Resource Rent Tax remaining MRRT deferred tax asset at that date.
MRRT with effect from 30 September 2014.
The nature of MRRT and the complexity of the associated accounting considerations made this an area of We also satisfied ourselves that the classification of the write-off of the MRRT focus.
deferred tax asset as an exclusion from underlying earnings was consistent with the Groups accounting policies and appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations Rio Tinto has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental We assessed managements process for the review of provisions, and obligations of $8,630 million at 31 December 2014. performed detailed testing of the movements in the provision during the year for 5 business units based on the associated risk of misstatement and The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in materiality.
estimating these future costs, given the unique nature of each site and the potential associated obligations, taking into account for example likely advances As part of our testing, we evaluated the legal and or constructive obligations in technology prior to the work commencing and determining the timing of any with respect to the restoration and rehabilitation for each of these business such work taking place.
These calculations also require management to units to assess the appropriateness of the intended method of restoration determine an appropriate rate to discount these future costs back to their net and rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
We also considered the competence and objectivity of managements The judgement required to estimate such costs is further compounded by the experts, whether internal or external to Rio, who produced the cost estimates.
fact that the restoration and rehabilitation of each site is relatively unique and We validated the accuracy of calculations and the appropriateness of the there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical discount rate.
precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future costs.
The Group reviews the close-down, restoration and environment obligations on a semi-annual basis, using experts to provide support in its assessment as appropriate.
This review incorporates the effects of any changes in local regulations and managements expected approach to restoration and rehabilitation.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits The Group has approximately 60 defined benefit pension plans.
The total fair We used our actuarial expertise to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions value of plan assets is $15,219 million, and total present value of obligations is used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including comparing salary $17,852 million, which are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with relevant of the Group.
We also verified that the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining with our internally developed benchmarks and with other companies appropriate assumptions, such as inflation levels, discount rates and mortality reporting as at 31 December 2014. rates.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the determination of the liability.
Management uses external actuaries to assist in For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of ownership assessing these assumptions.
and valuations of pension assets, and re-performed a sample of the valuations independently.
Judgement is also involved in the measurement of the fair value of certain pension assets.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Finance transformation Shared services transition The shared services transition element of Rio Tintos Finance transformation We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups shared services programme includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain back office transition plans, including the timing of business unit transitions and extent finance activities excluding key controls to a third-party provider.
The of activities being transferred.
We assessed the implementation of programme commenced in 2014 and is expected to run during 2015 and managements plans through the following procedures: into 2016.
We visited the outsourced shared service centre to observe the manner in Certain of the activities being transitioned were previously undertaken in which the knowledge transfer was being conducted.
Rio Tintos own shared services centres.
A number of business unit finance We assessed the design effectiveness of internal controls over financial processes have also been, or are being, transitioned.
reporting in the processes impacted at both the Group and business unit levels.
This centralisation of processes and transfer of responsibilities creates a risk of loss of knowledge which could adversely affect the controls during the transition We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls which operate within period.
There is also a risk that controls over financial reporting, which rely on Rio Tintos retained organisation.
those activities that have been, or are to be, transitioned may not be designed In respect of the third-party outsourced service provider: and or operate effectively.
We evaluated the Statement of Works governing the service level agreements with Rio Tinto and the associated key performance indicators.
We obtained a report from an independent third party on the Service Organisation Controls performed in accordance with the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements SSAE No.
This provided evidence about the operating effectiveness of governance and entity level controls operated by the outsourced service provider.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into five product groups being Aluminium, Copper, Diamonds & Minerals, Energy, and Iron Ore, which are all supported by centralised functions.
Each product group is made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate business units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of business units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
Based on this, we determined the appropriate business units to perform work over based on factors such as the size of the balances, the areas of focus as noted above, known or historical accounting issues and the desire to include some unpredictability in our audit procedures.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at business units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from either other PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those business units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In 2014, we identified3business units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
We performed work centrally in the areas of IT general controls, manual journals, taxation, pensions and treasury related procedures.
In 2014, we also performed procedures on the shared services transition as noted above.
Our Group engagement team involvement included site visits, conference calls with our component audit teams, review of our component auditor work papers, attendance at component audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance of the component and the extent of accounting and audit issues arising.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $600 million 2013: $600 million.
Howwedeterminedit 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied We consider an adjusted measure to be the most relevant in assessing the recurring financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $50 million 2013: $50 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Companies in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
com 189 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companies ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting  LLP Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 63, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, We have no exceptions that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for to report arising from members to assess the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our this responsibility.
knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does We have no exceptions not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Rio Tinto plcs compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Other required reporting  Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Corporations Act 2001 opinion Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are required to express an opinion on the Directors Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and presentationofthe Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report included in the accompanying Annual Report complies with the requirements of section 300A of the CorporationsAct 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Directors report Consistency of information in Directors report Corporations Act 2001 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Independence In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 184, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements in Australia.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companies circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion onthe effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for ustodraw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor Paul Bendall, Partner for and on behalf of  LLP for and on behalf of  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Melbourne, Australia 4 March 2015 4 March 2015 a The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom and Australia governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
