Financial statements Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 INDEPENDENT AUDITOrS rEPOrT TO THE MEMBErS OF ASHTEAD GrOUP PlC OUr ASSESSMENT OF rISkS OF MATErIAl MISSTATEMENT OPINION ON THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest OF ASHTEAD GrOUP PlC effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of In our opinion: the engagement team: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2014 Carrying value of rental fleet and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: There is a risk that the We have considered managements impairment analysis, judgements made by understood and challenged the key judgements and sensitivities the Group financial statements have management around the and the impact that each of these have in determining whether been properly prepared in accordance annual impairment review an impairment exists.
In particular we focused our analysis on with International Financial Reporting of rental fleet are not returns on investment by asset class, fleet utilisation, profits Standards IFRS as adopted by the appropriate and that the and losses on asset disposals, depreciation rates and residual European Union: carrying value of these values.
We audited the key metrics noted, including asset the Company financial statements have assets are overstated.
utilisation statistics and recalculating profit on disposal.
We also been properly prepared in accordance confirmed that the accounting for the rental fleet and associated with IFRS as adopted by the European disclosures were in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Union and as applied in accordance with Carrying value of goodwill the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: As with the carrying value We have assessed the Groups current and forecast and of rental fleet, there is a performance and considered whether any other factors exist the financial statements have been risk that the judgements that would suggest the goodwill is impaired.
We have performed prepared in accordance with the made by management in the following procedures: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the annual impairment assessed managements identification of cash-generating and, as regards the Group financial review of goodwill are units CGUs against our understanding of the business statements, Article 4 of the IAS inappropriate and that and the definition as set out in the accounting standards: Regulation.
assessed the appropriateness of the calculation of the value The financial statements comprise the in use of each CGU and the associated headroom: Consolidated Income Statement, the forecast inputs and growth assumptions were compared Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive against historical trends to assess the reliability of Income, the Consolidated and Company managements forecast, in addition to comparing forecast Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and assumptions to external market analysis: Company Statements of Changes in Equity, with the assistance of specialists, we recalculated the discount the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow rate applied to the future cash flows and benchmarked this Statements, and the related notes 1 to 32. against other companies in the industry: and The financial reporting framework that performed sensitivity analysis.
has been applied in their preparation is Accounting for acquisitions applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the There is risk that the We have challenged the key assumptions made by management Company financial statements, as applied acquisition accounting for in accounting for the acquisitions including: in accordance with the provisions of the the 12 acquisitions made a review of the asset purchase agreements, confirming the Companies Act 2006. in the period has not been correct accounting treatment has been applied and correctly applied because SEPArATE OPINION IN rElATION TO IFrS appropriate disclosure has been made: of the judgements involved AS ISSUED By THE IASB auditing the valuation and accounting for consideration in the identification of As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial payable, including any contingent consideration and traced acquired assets and statements, in addition to complying with its payments to bank statements: liabilities, their estimated legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the identification and fair valuation of the assets and liabilities fair values including the European Union, the Group has also the Group acquired including any fair value adjustments: and intangible assets and the applied IFRS as issued by the International valuation assumptions such as discount, tax and royalty rates assessment of contingent Accounting Standards Board IASB.
by recalculating these, reviewing assumptions used in such consideration.
calculations and recalculating using external evidence.
In our opinion the group financial statements In doing so we have utilised specialists to assist with considering comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the appropriateness of the discount rate.
We have reviewed the GOING CONCErN acquisition accounting and respective disclosures made in the As required by the Listing Rules we have financial statements.
reviewed the directors statement on Revenue recognition page 60 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: There is a risk that earned We have focused our testing on the earned not billed and billed not billed and billed not not earned valuation of revenue.
In doing so we have reviewed we have concluded that the directors use earned revenue is managements calculations, performed analytical reviews over of the going concern basis of accounting in incorrectly calculated and movements in the period and assessed the historical accuracy the preparation of the financial statements recorded.
of managements estimations of such amounts by comparing is appropriate: and to actual amounts.
We have also sought to identify any new we have not identified any material or complex customer contracts and reviewed the terms and uncertainties that may cast significant conditions of these.
doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 44.
However, because not all future events or Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of conditions can be predicted, this statement the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of to continue as a going concern.
the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
64 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITOrS rEPOrT TO THE MEMBErS OF ASHTEAD GrOUP PlC CONTINUED MATTErS ON wHICH wE ArE rEqUIrED Our responsibility is to audit and express OUr APPlICATION OF MATErIAlITy TO rEPOrT By ExCEPTION an opinion on the financial statements We define materiality as the magnitude of Adequacy of explanations received and in accordance with applicable law and misstatement in the financial statements that accounting records International Standards on Auditing UK makes it probable that the economic decisions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are and Ireland.
Those standards require us to of a reasonably knowledgeable person would required to report to you if, in our opinion: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards be changed or influenced.
We use materiality Ethical Standards for Auditors.
both in planning the scope of our audit work we have not received all the information and in evaluating the results of our work.
and explanations we require for our audit: We also comply with International Standard We determined materiality for the Group to be or on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our 14 million, which is 3.9% of pre-tax profit for audit methodology and tools aim to ensure adequate accounting records have not been the year.
that our quality control procedures are kept by the parent company, or returns effective, understood and applied.
Our quality In calculating our materiality we have used a adequate for our audit have not been controls and systems include our dedicated two-year average profit before tax to reflect received from branches not visited by us: or professional standards review team, the cyclical nature of the industry in which the the parent company financial statements strategically focused second partner reviews Group operates.
are not in agreement with the accounting and independent partner reviews.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we records and returns.
This report is made solely to the Companys would report to them all audit differences We have nothing to report in respect of these members, as a body, in accordance with in excess of 300,000 as well as differences matters.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act below that threshold that, in our view, 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Directors remuneration warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
so that we might state to the Companys Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also We also report to the Audit Committee on members those matters we are required required to report if in our opinion certain disclosure matters that we identified when to state to them in an auditors report and disclosures of directors remuneration have assessing the overall presentation of the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent not been made or the part of the Directors financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Remuneration Report to be audited is not in responsibility to anyone other than the AN OvErvIEw OF THE SCOPE OF OUr AUDIT agreement with the accounting records and Company and the Companys members as Our audit was scoped by obtaining an returns.
We have nothing to report arising a body, for our audit work, for this report, understanding of the Group and its from these matters.
or for the opinions we have formed.
environment, including Group-wide controls, Corporate Governance Statement and assessing the risks of material SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAl Under the Listing Rules we are also misstatement at the Group level.
Audit work to STATEMENTS required to review the part of the Corporate respond to the risks of material misstatement An audit involves obtaining evidence about Governance Statement relating to the was performed by a combination of the work the amounts and disclosures in the financial Companys compliance with nine provisions performed by component teams in the US and statements sufficient to give reasonable of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
UK, and the Group audit team at Head Office.
assurance that the financial statements are We have nothing to report arising from The Group is comprised of three principal free from material misstatement, whether our review.
locations: the Head Office in London: A-Plant caused by fraud or error.
This includes an in Warrington, UK: and Sunbelt in Charlotte, Our duty to read other information in the assessment of: US.
The Group audit team performed a full Annual report whether the accounting policies are scope audit of the Head Office and component Under International Standards on Auditing appropriate to the Groups and the audit teams performed full-scope audits at UK and Ireland, we are required to report Companys circumstances and have both A-Plant and Sunbelt.
These three to you if, in our opinion, information in the been consistently applied and adequately locations represent 100% of the Groups annual report is: disclosed: revenue, profit before tax and net assets.
materially inconsistent with the information They were also selected to provide an the reasonableness of significant in the audited financial statements: or appropriate basis for undertaking audit work accounting estimates made by the apparently materially incorrect based on, to address the risks of material misstatement directors: and or materially inconsistent with, our identified above.
Our audit work at the three the overall presentation of the financial knowledge of the Group acquired in the locations was executed at levels of materiality statements.
course of performing our audit: or applicable to each individual location which In addition, we read all the financial and were lower than Group materiality.
non-financial information in the annual report The Group audit team have made several site In particular, we are required to consider to identify material inconsistencies with the visits to component audit teams to ensure whether we have identified any audited financial statements and to identify sufficient involvement and oversight of work inconsistencies between our knowledge any information that is apparently materially performed.
At the parent entity level we also acquired during the audit and the directors incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent tested the consolidation process.
statement that they consider the annual with, the knowledge acquired by us in report is fair, balanced and understandable the course of performing the audit.
If we OPINION ON OTHEr MATTErS PrESCrIBED and whether the annual report appropriately become aware of any apparent material By THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 discloses those matters that we misstatements or inconsistencies we In our opinion: communicated to the Audit Committee which consider the implications for our report.
the part of the Directors Remuneration we consider should have been disclosed.
We Report to be audited has been properly confirm that we have not identified any such prepared in accordance with the EDwArD HANSON inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Companies Act 2006: and SENIOr STATUTOry AUDITOr rESPECTIvE rESPONSIBIlITIES OF the information given in the Strategic for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP DIrECTOrS AND AUDITOr Report and the Directors Report for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement financial year for which the financial London, UK of Directors Responsibilities, the directors statements are prepared is consistent 16 June 2014 are responsible for the preparation of with the financial statements.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
