Other Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT The pressure on and incentives for management to meet revised 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED revenue and profit guidance We have audited the Financial Statements of Rolls-Royce Refer to pages 32 to 41 Business reviews and pages 69 to 71 Audit Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out Committee report Financial reporting on pages 95 to 151.
In our opinion: The risk The Group published a number of revisions to its revenue the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of and profit guidance during the year with a generally decreasing the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December trend in profit and revenue and there have been significant 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: associated decreases in the Groups share price.
The Chief Executive the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in clearly instructed the Executive Leadership Team and the senior accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as finance executives on more than one occasion not to take any adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS : account of the pressure to meet forecasts in preparing the financial the parent company Financial Statements have been properly results and to be alert to how this might affect personnel across prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the wider Group.
Nevertheless, the heightened pressure on and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with incentives for management to meet the latest guidance increased the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the inherent risk of manipulation of the Financial Statements.
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial results are sensitive to significant estimates and judgements, particularly in respect of revenues and costs 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT associated with long-term contracts, and there is a broad range We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that had of acceptable outcomes of these that could lead to different profit the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures to address and revenue reported in the Financial Statements.
Relatively small those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the changes in the basis of those judgements and estimates could Companys members as a body may better understand the process result in the Group meeting, exceeding or falling short of guidance.
by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the Our response We have: i extended our enquiries designed purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the Financial Statements to assess whether management had applied unconscious bias as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and or had taken systematic actions to manipulate the reported results: we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the ii compared the results to forecasts and challenged variances at Financial Statements.
a much more granular level than we would otherwise have done based on our understanding of factors affecting business Given the long-term nature of the Groups business, it is inevitable performance with corroboration using external data where that the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit change little possible: iii applied an increased level of scepticism throughout from year to year.
Nevertheless, there have been a number of the audit by increasing the involvement of the senior audit team changes from 2013, the most significant being: personnel, with particular focus on audit procedures designed for the 2014 audit, due to a number of revisions to the Groups to assess whether revenues and costs have been recognised published guidance on revenue and profit, we significantly in the correct accounting period and whether central adjustments increased our focus and work on the risk relating to The pressure were appropriate: and iv challenged our entire audit approach on and incentives for management to meet revised revenue and based on an independent review by personnel with no other profit guidance: involvement in the audit.
the audit work in connection with the risk relating to Accounting In particular: for risk and revenue sharing arrangements was substantially less than that required in the 2013 audit as the Financial Reporting when considering the risk relating to The measurement of revenue Councils enquiry was concluded during the 2013 audit, there and profit in the Civil aerospace business, we challenged the basis have been no changes to relevant accounting standards and only for changes in the estimated revenues and costs in long-term a small number of new agreements have been entered into this contracts with a heightened awareness of the possibility of year: and unconscious or systematic bias: and the risks relating to Accounting for the consolidation of Rolls-Royce when considering the risk relating to The presentation of Power Systems Holding GmbH and the valuation of Daimler AGs underlying profit, we sought to identify items that affected profit put option required substantially less audit effort than in earlier and or the trend in profit unevenly in frequency or amount years when the transactions took place, in part due to the exercise at a much lower level than we would otherwise have done and of the put option by Daimler AG during 2014. to assess the transparency of disclosure of these items.
Our findings Aside from one transaction which had a very small impact on the Groups profit and which was subsequently corrected by management, our testing did not identify any indication of manipulation of results.
We found the degree of caution optimism adopted in estimates to be broadly consistent with that adopted in the previous year with no indication of conscious or unconscious bias.
154 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information The basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the Civil aerospace The measurement of revenue and profit in the Civil aerospace business business Refer to page 101 and 102 Key areas of judgement Introduction, Refer to pages 101 and 102 Key areas of judgement Measurement Contractual aftermarket rights, Linkage of original and long-term of performance on long-term aftermarket contracts, pages 104 aftermarket contracts, pages 104 and 105 Significant accounting and 105 Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition policies Revenue recognition and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee and TotalCare arrangements and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee report Financial reporting report Financial reporting The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year on The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, inter alia, on the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, on the appropriate assessment of whether or not each long-term inter alia, on the assessment of the percentage of completion of aftermarket contract for services is linked to or separate from long-term aftermarket contracts and the forecast cost profile of the contract for sale of the related engines as this drives the each arrangement.
As long-term aftermarket contracts can extend accounting basis to be applied.
As the commercial arrangements over significant periods and the profitability of these arrangements can be complex, significant judgement is applied in selecting the typically assumes significant life-cycle cost improvement over the accounting basis in each case.
The most significant risk is that the term of the contracts, the estimated outturn requires significant Group might inappropriately account for sales of engines and judgement to be applied in assessing engine flying hours, time on long-term service agreements as a single arrangement for wing and other operating parameters, the pattern of future accounting purposes as this would usually lead to revenue and maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred.
The inherent profit being recognised too early because the margin in the nature of these estimates means that their continual refinement long-term service agreement is usually higher than the margin can have an impact on the profits of the Civil aerospace business in the engine sale agreement.
that can be significant in an individual financial year.
The assessment of the estimated outturn for each arrangement involves Our response We re-evaluated the appropriateness of the detailed calculations using large and complex databases with accounting bases the Group applies in the Civil aerospace a significant level of manual intervention.
business by reference to accounting standards, including Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by examining correspondence and attending meetings between the Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing the Group and the Financial Reporting Council and re-examining revenue and cost profiles are appropriate and that the resulting historical long-term aftermarket contracts.
We considered whether estimated cumulative profit on such contracts is accurately the enhanced disclosure included in the Financial Statements reflected in the Financial Statements: these controls operated over following this dialogue enables shareholders to understand how both the inputs and the outputs of the calculations.
We challenged the accounting policies represent the commercial substance the appropriateness of these estimates for each programme and of the Groups contracts with its customers.
We made our own assessed whether or not the estimates showed any evidence of independent assessment, with reference to the relevant accounting conscious or unconscious management bias in the context of the standards, of the accounting basis that should be applied to each heightened pressure on and incentives for management to meet long-term aftermarket contract entered into during the year and the latest guidance discussed above.
Our challenge was based on compared this to the accounting basis applied by the Group.
our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates Our findings We found that the Group has developed in previous periods, identification and analysis of changes in a framework for selecting the accounting bases which is assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the consistent with a balanced interpretation of accounting standards consistency of assumptions across programmes, detailed 2013 audit finding: balanced and has applied this consistently.
assessments of the achievability of the Groups plans to reduce We found that the enhanced disclosure was ample.
For the life-cycle costs and an analysis of the impact of these plans on agreements entered into during this year, it was clear which forecast cost profiles taking account of contingencies and analysis of accounting basis should apply.
the impact of known technical issues on cost forecasts.
Our analysis considered each significant airframe that is powered by the Groups engines and was based on our own experience supplemented by discussions with an aircraft valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was objective and suitably qualified.
We also checked the mathematical accuracy of the revenue and profit for each arrangement and considered the implications of identified errors and changes in estimates.
Our findings In 2013, our testing identified weaknesses in the design and operation of controls and we assessed the effectiveness of the Groups plans for addressing these weaknesses.
In planning the 2014 audit, we anticipated that the control weaknesses identified in 2013 audit would be remediated.
However, our testing identified continuing, albeit reduced, control weaknesses in some areas and so, as in 2013, we increased the scope and depth of our detailed testing and analysis from that originally planned.
Overall, our assessment is that the assumptions and resulting estimates 155 Other Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED including appropriate contingencies resulted in mildly cautious Liabilities arising from sales financing arrangements 2013 audit finding: mildly cautious profit recognition and we Refer to page 103 Key areas of judgement Customer financing found no indication of conscious or unconscious bias.
contingent liabilities, page 109 Significant accounting policies Sales financing support, pages 137 and 138 Note 18 Recoverability of intangible assets certification costs and to the Financial Statements Provisions for liabilities and charges participation fees, development expenditure and contractual and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee report Financial reporting aftermarket rights and amounts recoverable on contracts primarily in the Civil aerospace business The risk The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing Refer to page 103 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Forecasts and asset value support provided to customers.
This support and discount rates, pages 107 and 108 Significant accounting typically takes the form of a guarantee with respect to policies Certification costs and participation fees, Research and the value of an aircraft at a future date, a commitment to buy used development, Contractual aftermarket rights and Impairment of aircraft or a guarantee of a customers future payments under an non-current assets, page 122 Note 9 to the Financial Statements aircraft financing arrangement.
Judgement is required to assess the Intangible assets and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee report likelihood of these liabilities crystallising, in order to assess whether Financial reporting a provision should be recognised and, if so, the amount of that provision.
The total potential liability is significant and can be The risk The recovery of these assets depends on a combination affected by the assessment of the residual value of the aircraft of achieving sufficiently profitable business in the future as well and the creditworthiness of the customers.
as the ability of customers to pay amounts due under contracts Our response We analysed the terms of guarantees on aircraft often over a long period of time.
Assets relating to a particular delivered during the year in detail and obtained aircraft values from engine programme are more prone to the risk of impairment and held discussions with aircraft valuation specialists engaged in the early years of a programme as the engines market position by the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was objective and is established.
In addition, the pricing of business with launch suitably qualified, had been appropriately instructed and had been customers makes assets relating to these engines more prone provided with complete, accurate data on which to base its to the risk of impairment.
For all contracts on delivered aircraft, we assessed the Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the commercial factors relevant to the likelihood of the guarantees Group to provide assurance that the assumptions used in preparing being called, including the credit ratings and recent financial the impairment calculations are regularly updated, that changes are performance of the relevant customers and their fleet plans, and monitored, scrutinised and approved by appropriate personnel and critically assessed the Groups estimate of the required provisions that the final assumptions used in impairment testing have been for those liabilities.
We considered movements in aircraft values appropriately approved.
We challenged the appropriateness of the and potential changes in the assessed probability of a liability key assumptions in the impairment test including market size, crystallising since the previous year end and considered whether market share, pricing, engine and aftermarket unit costs, individual the evidence supported the Groups assessment as to whether or programme assumptions, price and cost escalation, discount rate not a liability needs to be recognised and the amount of the liability and exchange rates focusing particularly on those assets with recognised or contingent liability disclosed.
We considered whether a higher risk of impairment those relating to the Trent 900 the related disclosure in note 18 to the Financial Statements programme and launch customers on the Trent 900 and Trent 1000 appropriately explains the potential liability in excess of the amount programmes.
Our challenge was based on our assessment of the provided for in the Financial Statements for delivered aircraft and historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods, highlights the significant but unquantifiable contingent liability our understanding of the commercial prospects of key engine in respect of aircraft which will be delivered in the future.
programmes, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of Our findings We found that the assumptions and estimates were assumptions across programmes and customers and comparison balanced 2013 audit finding: balanced and that the disclosures were of assumptions with publicly available data where this was proportionate 2013 audit finding: proportionate.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the impairment calculations.
We considered whether the disclosures in note 9 to the Financial Statements describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates.
Our findings Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the design and operation of controls that would have required us to expand the nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
We found that the assumptions and resulting estimates were balanced 2013 audit finding: balanced and that the disclosures were proportionate 2013 audit finding: proportionate.
We found no errors in calculations 2013 audit finding: none.
156 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information Bribery and corruption Presentation and explanation of results Refer to page 147 Note 23 to the Financial Statements Contingent Refer to pages 32 to 41 Business reviews, pages 28 to 31 Financial liabilities and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee report Financial Review, pages 112 and 113 Note 2 to the Financial Statements reporting Segmental analysis and pages 69 to 71 Audit Committee report Financial reporting The risk A large part of the Groups business is characterised by competition for individually significant contracts with customers, The presentation of underlying profit which are often directly or indirectly associated with governments, The risk In addition to its Adopted IFRS Financial Statements, and the award of individually significant contracts to suppliers.
the Group presents an alternative income statement on an The procurement processes associated with these activities are underlying basis.
The directors believe the underlying income highly susceptible to the risk of corruption.
In addition the Group statement reflects better the Groups trading performance during operates in a number of territories where the use of commercial the year.
The basis of adjusting between the Adopted IFRS and intermediaries is either required by the government or is normal underlying income statements and a full reconciliation between practice.
In December 2013, the Group announced that it had been them is set out in note 2 to the Financial Statements on pages 110 informed by the Serious Fraud Office in the UK that it had and 113.
A significant recurring adjustment between the Adopted commenced a formal investigation into bribery and corruption in IFRS income statement and the underlying income statement overseas markets.
The Group is cooperating with the Serious Fraud relates to the foreign exchange rates used to translate foreign Office and other agencies, including the US Department of Justice.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange Breaches of laws and regulations in this area can lead to fines, contracts to manage the cash flow exposures of forecast penalties, criminal prosecution, commercial litigation and transactions denominated in foreign currencies but does not restrictions on future business.
generally apply hedge accounting in its Adopted IFRS income statement.
The underlying income statement translates these Our response We evaluated and tested the Groups policies, amounts at the achieved foreign exchange rate on forward foreign procedures and controls over the selection and renewal of exchange contracts settled in the period, retranslates assets and intermediaries, contracting arrangements, ongoing management, liabilities at exchange rates forecast to be achieved from future payments and responses to suspected breaches of policy.
We sought settlement of such contracts and excludes unrealised gains and to identify and tested payments made to intermediaries during losses on such contracts which are included in the Adopted IFRS the year, made enquiries of appropriate personnel and evaluated income statement.
The Group has discretion over which forward the tone set by the Board and the Executive Leadership Team and foreign exchange contracts are settled in each financial year, which the Groups approach to managing this risk.
Having enquired of could impact the achieved rate both for the period and in the future.
management, the Audit Committee and the Board as to whether In addition, adjustments are made to exclude one-off past-service the Group is in compliance with laws and regulations relating to costs on post-retirement schemes, restructuring activities that bribery and corruption, we made written enquiries of the Groups significantly change the shape of the Groups operations and the legal advisers to corroborate the results of those enquiries and effect of acquisition accounting and a number of other items.
maintained a high level of vigilance to possible indications of Alternative performance measures can provide shareholders with significant non-compliance with laws and regulations relating appropriate additional information if properly used and presented.
to bribery and corruption whilst carrying out our other audit In such cases, measures such as these can assist shareholders in procedures.
We discussed the areas of potential or suspected gaining a better understanding of a companys financial breaches of law, including the ongoing investigation, with the performance and strategy.
However, when improperly used and Audit Committee and the Board as well as the Groups legal advisers presented, these kinds of measures might prevent the Annual Report and assessed related documentation.
We assessed whether the being fair, balanced and understandable by hiding the real financial disclosure in note 23 to the Financial Statements of the Groups position and results or by making the profitability of the reporting exposure to the financial effects of potential or suspected breaches entity seem more attractive.
of law or regulation complies with accounting standards and in Our response We assessed the appropriateness of the basis for the particular whether it is the case that the investigation remains adjustments between the Adopted IFRS income statement and the at too early a stage to assess the consequences if any, including underlying income statement and recalculated the adjustments in particular the size of any possible fines.
with a particular focus on the impact of the foreign exchange rates Our findings We found that disclosure to be proportionate used to translate foreign currency amounts in the underlying 2013 audit finding: proportionate.
We assessed whether or not the selection of forward foreign exchange contracts settled in the year showed any evidence of management bias.
We also assessed: i the extent to which the prominence given to the underlying financial information and related commentary in the Annual Report compared to the Adopted IFRS financial information and related commentary could be misleading: ii whether the Adopted IFRS and underlying financial information are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: iii whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently applied: and iv whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form and context in which it appears in the Annual Report.
157 Other Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Our findings We found no concerns regarding the basis We report to the Audit Committee: i all material corrected identified of the underlying financial information or its calculation and misstatements: ii uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding no indication of management bias in the settlement of forward 4 million for income statement items: and iii other identified foreign exchange contracts.
We consider that there is proportionate misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
disclosure of the nature and amounts of the adjustments to We subjected 33 of the Groups reporting components to audits allow shareholders to understand the implications of the two for group reporting purposes and 14 to specified risk-focused audit bases on the financial measures being presented 2013 audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant finding: proportionate.
We found the overall presentation enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did of the underlying financial information to be balanced present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
work also provided further audit coverage.
The remaining reporting Disclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items which are uneven units were subject to analytical procedures by the Group audit team.
in frequency or amount The Group operates shared service centres in Derby UK and The risk The Groups profits are significantly impacted by items Indianapolis US, the outputs of which are included in the financial such as cumulative adjustments to profit recognised on long-term information of the reporting components they service contracts, sale and leasebacks of spare engines to joint ventures, and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each research and development charges, reorganisation costs and foreign of the service centres is subject to specified risk-focused audit exchange translation which can be uneven in frequency and or procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and amount.
If significant either to the profit for the year or to the trend review controls.
Additional audit procedures are performed at certain in profit, appropriate disclosure of the effect of these items is reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the necessary in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to provide work performed over the shared service centres.
the information necessary to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
Summary audit scope REVENUE UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX Our response We sought to identify items that affect profit and the trend in profit which are uneven in frequency or amount 90% 91% at a much lower level than we would otherwise have done and to 7% 9% assess the transparency of disclosure of these items.
3% Our findings We identified a number of significant items that had affected profit for the year or the prior year that required appropriate disclosure in the Annual Report to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
We found that proportionate disclosure of these items had been provided in the Annual Report TOTAL ASSETS and Financial Statements taken as a whole.
83% Audits for group reporting purposes In reaching our audit opinion on the Financial Statements we 12% Specified risk-focused audit took into account the findings that we describe above and those 5% procedures for other, lower risk areas.
Overall the findings from across the Group-level procedures only whole audit are that the Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of appropriate accounting policies, use mildly cautious estimates, which are consistent when comparing this year to last, The Group audit team instructed component auditors, and the auditors and provide proportionate disclosure.
Having assessed these of the shared service centres, as to the significant areas to be covered, findings and evaluated uncorrected misstatements in the context including the relevant risks detailed above and the information of materiality and considered the qualitative aspects of the Financial to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component Statements as a whole we have not modified our opinion on the materialities, which ranged from 0.3 million to 60 million, having Financial Statements.
regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 29 of the 47 components was performed 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The Group audit team visited 25 component locations in the UK, The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole the US, Germany and Norway, the purpose of which included an was set at 70 million 2013: 86 million, determined with reference assessment of the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, normalised to meetings were also held with these component auditors and with exclude the volatility in reported profit due to gains and losses those of the higher risk components that were not physically visited.
on revaluation of foreign currency and other derivative financial At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit instruments which could otherwise result in an inappropriate team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by materiality level being calculated.
This materiality measure the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
represents 4.6% of this benchmark and 34.3% of total reported profit before tax.
We carry out full audit procedures to assess the accuracy of the gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments which this year amounted to a 1.3 billion loss as part of our audit of the Groups treasury operations.
158 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE Scope of report and responsibilities COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement In our opinion: set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial has been properly prepared in accordance with the Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website Companies Act 2006: and at www.
This report is made solely the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the Under ISA UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based basis of our opinions.
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material JIMMY DABOO SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square we have identified material inconsistencies between the London E14 5GL knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors 12 February 2015 statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 164, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance report on page 59 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
