GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report which incorporates the management Share capital report required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules for listed Details of the Companys share capital including the rights and obligations companies and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December attached to each class of shares and the ordinary shares issued during 2014 as set out on pages 84 to 128.
In compiling this report, the directors 2014 are summarised in note 17 of the financial statements.
5p ordinary have consulted with the management of the Group.
shares represent over 99.9% of the Companys total share capital and 1 9.5% cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.1% of the Directors Companys total share capital.
The names of the directors in office during the year still in office at the year end and their biographies and other details are set out on pages 52 to There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with regard 53.
IG King was a director during the year and resigned from the Board on to the control of the Company.
At the Companys last AGM held on 25 April 2014, the shareholders Directors indemnification and insurance authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares The Companys Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers limited to just under approximately 10% of its issued ordinary share of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, subject to the provisions of capital at that time and of certain issued preference shares, and to allot the Companies Act 2006.
The Company purchases and maintains insurance shares within certain limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities for the directors and officers of the Company in performing their duties, as expire at the 2015 AGM and appropriate renewals will be sought.
permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006.
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2014.
Powers of the directors As set out in the Companys Articles of Association, the business of the The Companys Articles of Association contain customary restrictions on Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain limited circumstances Company.
e. g. in relation to transfers to a minor.
Save for those provisions, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Appointment and removal of directors Company other than certain restrictions which may be required from time The Board may appoint a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional to time by law, for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Model director.
Any director appointed by the Board must retire at the next AGM of Code, which forms part of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority as the Company and put themselves forward for re-appointment by the adopted by the Company, directors and certain employees are required to shareholders.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
Corporate Governance Code, each member of the Board submits themself for re-election on an annual basis.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act2006, The Companys Articles of Association contain limited restrictions on the the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any director before the exercise of voting rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised shares expiration of their period of office and may, subject to the Articles of following the issue of a notice to shareholders under section 793 Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing Companies Act 2006. to act as a director in their place.
The Companys share schemes each contain provisions providing voting Political donations rights to the scheme trustee.
No political donations were made during the year.
The Group has a policy of not making political donations in any part of the world.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special Dividend resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 30.9p per ordinary share 2013: 30.0p for the year, payable on 18 May 2015 to shareholders on the Significant agreements change of control register on 10 April 2015.
An interim dividend for 2014 of 19.2p per The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is ordinary share 2013: 18.05p was paid on 26 September 2014. party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
There are no agreements between the Information required in the Directors report set out in the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation StrategicReport for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Information relating to likely future developments of the Company and its subsidiaries and information relating to research and development Greenhouse gas emissions activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is set out in the Strategic The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are Report on pages 1 to 51. set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 44.
Use of financial instruments Disabled persons and employee involvement An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial instruments The disclosures concerning the Groups policies on the employment of and financial risk management objectives are contained in note 26 to the disabled persons and employee involvement are set out in the Corporate accounts.
Social Responsibility report on page 46.
Post-balance sheet events There have been no important post-balance sheet events.
Existence of branches outside the UK The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
78 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Substantial shareholders The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that As at 31 December 2014, the following notifiable interests in issued share are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose capital had been received by the Company under the Disclosure and with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the UK Listing Authority.
It should be noted and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified to the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until an of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention applicable threshold is crossed.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Size of Nature of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Identity holding holding corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
5.28% Indirect Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and APG Asset Management NV 5.01% Direct dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other Blackrock Inc 4.86% Indirect jurisdictions.
i Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4.99% Direct i The Company was informed on 15 January 2015 that Mondrian Investment Partners Directors responsibility statement Limited had increased the size of its holding to 5.01% of the voting capital.
No other We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as between the end of the financial year and 2 March 2015. adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the Corporate governance undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: The Companys corporate governance report can be found on pages 54 to 63.
2. the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the Disclosure of information to auditors undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit face: and information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each 3. the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern basis of preparation Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for to 53 confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: commitments, the significant order book with customers spread across The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash performance of the business and the position of the Group and position.
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and Statement of directors responsibility for preparing the Annual Report Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the annual report and and Financial Statements financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Directors responsibilities understandable and provide the information necessary for The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under External auditor company law the directors must not approve the financial statements Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of the unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of Board, a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor, and to authorise the affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting forthcoming AGM.
Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: On behalf of the Board present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Stephen Rhys Jones requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the Company Secretary impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 2 March 2015 entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of Rotork plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups and the parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Report of the Directors on page 79 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit material misstatement strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The description of risks opposite should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 61.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 6.9m, which is 5% of pre-tax profit.
In 2013, the previous auditors set materiality at 9.7m on the basis of 7% of pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 138,000 in 2013 the previous auditor reported on all amounts over 450,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
80 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill The gross carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2014 was We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions which 149.7m.
Details of its valuation is included by management in the underpin managements forecasts with reference to recent critical accounting estimates and judgements section on page 92 performance and historical trend analysis.
We confirmed the and note 10 to the accounts.
forecasts used had been challenged by the Board and approved by it.
We compared the identification and aggregation of the CGUs against Management perform an impairment review under IAS36 Impairment how goodwill is monitored within the business.
We performed a of Assets on an annual basis and whenever an indication of specific review and challenge, involving internal valuations impairment exists.
specialists, of the discount rates applied for each CGU against the Group weighted average cost of capital and third party data relating A significant risk of material misstatement exists as a result of the to premiums applied to take account of cash flows arising in overseas application of management judgement and estimates in performing locations.
the impairment review, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows and the discount rates used for each cash We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis on key generating unit CGU.
assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenarios e. g. further changes in discount and growth rates.
Accounting for significant acquisitions During the year, the Group has acquired three businesses, YTC, Rotork Our audit of the acquired intangible assets focused on managements Midland and Masso.
32.4m of intangible assets have been identified in valuation model and compliance with IFRS3, IFRS13 and accepted relation to the acquisitions in the year.
Details of their valuation are industry valuation practice regarding discount rates, growth rates included by management in the critical accounting estimates and and royalty rates.
We used our internal valuation specialists to judgements section on page 92 and note 3 to the accounts.
support our assessment of these rates.
The valuation of intangible assets represents a key judgement area We challenged the reasonableness of underlying forecast cash flows based on a number of inputs in the discounted cash flow and royalty through discussions with management, results of the business pre relief valuations, which include the discount rates, growth rates and and post-acquisition and review of any due diligence work.
We evaluated any significant fair value adjustments made to align the Other provisional fair value adjustments have been made by historical accounting of the acquired entity with the Groups management in the areas of inventory, trade receivables and warranty accounting policies.
Valuation of inventory Our work on provisions included agreeing the provision calculations The Group had inventory of 81.1m at 31 December 2014, held in to inventory usage data and product history.
We have recalculated numerous global locations across several product lines.
Details of its provisions based on this data.
valuation is included by management in the critical accounting estimates and judgements section on page 92 and note 14 to the We have benchmarked the various manufacturing components accounts.
within the Group regarding their use of absorption rates and reviewed individual overhead categories against IAS2 criteria.
There are risks surrounding the absorption of labour and overheads and the obsolescence of stock in niche markets and industries where customer demand fluctuates over periods.
Both raw materials and finished goods require assessment for provisions based on past and predicted future product usage.
There is a risk that local systems can present inconsistent data and or override occurs.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation We challenged the key assumptions supporting managements The Group has a defined benefit pension liability of 36.1m at 31 valuation of the pension liability.
We used our internal actuarial December 2014.
Details of the valuation of the liability is included by experts to compare the discount, inflation and life expectancy rates management in the critical accounting estimates and judgements against externally derived data.
section on page 92 and note 24 to the accounts.
We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes There is a risk relating to judgements made by management in valuing in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be the Defined Benefit pension plans as small changes in the key model used in their calculation.
input assumptions such as the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation level, can have a significant effect on the valuation of the We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in liability.
respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
