Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Independent auditors report to the members of RPC Group Plc only Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our Audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of RPC Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 76 to 122.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Presentation of costs as restructuring and closure costs, impairment losses and other exceptional items 26.7 million Refer to page 64 Audit Committee statement, page 83 accounting policy and page 91 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group is undertaking a restructuring programme, Fitter for the Future.
This has resulted in restructuring and closure costs, impairment losses and other exceptional items directly incurred as a result of the restructuring process being presented as non-recurring in the income statement.
The non-recurring costs also include, amongst others, costs incurred in respect of which an insurance recovery is being pursued following a flood at an operating site included in the restructuring program.
The amount of the insurance recovery is uncertain and as a result judgement is required in determining the amount recognised in the financial statements.
These costs represent the difference between operating profit under EU-IFRS and underlying operating profit.
Significant judgement is required in the allocation of costs as non-recurring and given the scrutiny of underlying profit by external parties, there is a risk that underlying profit could be under or overstated.
The allocation of expenses to non-recurring items is therefore a key judgemental area that our audit is concentrated on.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others: obtaining a breakdown of non-recurring costs recognised in the period: agreeing amounts back to available evidence, particularly payroll records and leasing documentation: inspecting the Board approved documents which detail the nature and expected amount of such costs and comparing the actual costs recognised to these documents for consistency: discussion with personnel responsible for the operational delivery of the restructuring project: and challenging the Groups classification of these items as separate from underlying operating profit.
In addition, we considered the reasonableness of the Groups assessment of the recovery of costs and losses incurred following the flood by inspecting correspondence with the insurer, reviewing summaries of the costs incurred and expert reports as to the value of the assets damaged.
We also considered whether: a appropriate prominence was given in the Annual Report to the EU-IFRS financial information and related commentary compared to the underlying financial information and related commentary: b whether the differences between the EU-IFRS and the underlying financial information were explained with sufficient prominence.
: c whether the basis of the underlying financial information was clearly and accurately described: and d whether the underlying financial information was not otherwise misleading in the form and context in which it appears in the Annual Report.
Valuation of assets and liabilities held for sale 14.7 million Refer to page 65 Audit committee statement and page 101 financial disclosures.
The risk As a result of a strategic review the Board announced a plan to dispose of three businesses and one property of the Group.
Accounting standards require these items to be recorded at the 31 March 2014 at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
They should be presented separately in the financial statements.
Where a formal offer has been received, the Board consider this to represent the fair value less costs to sell.
Otherwise, the fair value less costs to sell is considered to be a multiple of forecast earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
The calculation of forecast earnings involves a number of assumptions about the expected trading and financial performance of the business in future periods and is therefore subject to a high degree of estimation.
Further, the multiple used is highly subjective.
There is therefore a risk that the value of the assets and liabilities recorded at 31 March 2014 are materially different to the amount ultimately recovered through a future sales transaction.
Due to the significant level of judgement involved, this is one of the key areas of judgement on which our audit is concentrated.
74 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of RPC Group Plc only continued Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, an assessment of the Boards fair value calculations.
We inspected formal and indicative purchase offers received from third parties, which represents 82% of the balance, and compared this to the assessment of fair value.
Where an offer had not been received, we inspected and challenged the forecast earnings and the multiple applied.
We challenged the Boards assessment of forecast earnings by comparing the actual results of the cash generating units holding the assets held for sale, in the second half of the year ended 31 March 2014, to forecasts previously made for that period.
We inspected the terms of engagement of the external expert engaged by the directors to advise on appropriate earnings multiples.
We evaluated the skills, experience and key assumptions made by the external expert in performing this role and obtained the report direct from the expert.
We inspected any correspondence between the sales agents and the directors for any indication that the best estimate of the fair value less costs to sell significantly differed from the amount recorded in the financial statements.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the key assumptions and judgements relating to the assets and liabilities held for sale.
Fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and intangibles 26.5 million Refer to page 65 Audit Committee statement and page 113 financial disclosures.
The risk During the year, the Group purchased a controlling interest in M&H Group Limited.
Under the relevant accounting standard, assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at their fair value.
This includes a requirement to identify and recognise intangibles that may not have been previously recognised by the acquired business, and to recognise assets and liabilities in the acquired balance sheet at fair value.
The identification and valuation of the acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as separate items from goodwill can have a material impact as intangible items are amortised to the income statement over a defined period whilst goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review.
This is therefore a significant risk on which our audit is concentrated.
Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst others, consideration of the completeness of the fair value calculations of the acquired assets, liabilities and intangibles.
We reviewed the environmental, legal and financial due diligence reports performed on the acquiree, which were commissioned by the Board to assist in arriving at an appropriate purchase price, for any matters raised that had not been considered by the Board in assessing fair values.
We assessed the skills and expertise of the due diligence practitioners.
We reviewed the reporting from, and held a discussion with, our component audit team who performed a full scope audit on Maynard & Harris Plastics Limited, the main trader of the M&H Group, for the year ended 31 March 2014.
We reviewed the completeness and accuracy of the adjustments recorded by the Board, agreeing key items back to underlying data and challenging key judgements.
We re-performed the calculations of certain fair value adjustments.
We assessed the skills and experience of the Board in performing the fair value exercise.
We also considered the adequacy of disclosures in these financial statements.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.3 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 9.0% of Group profit before tax and 6.2% of Group profit before tax adjusted for restructuring and closure costs, impairment and other exceptional items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3 million either individually or in aggregate, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at the key reporting components in the following countries: the United Kingdom, Germany, France, and by the Group audit team in the United Kingdom.
Specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Sweden and France.
These procedures covered 78.0% of total Group revenue: 70.4% of Group operating profit: and 72.6% of total Group assets.
The Group audit team also performed desktop reviews on components in France, Poland, Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Tunisia and the United States of America.
These procedures covered 22.0% of total Group revenue: 29.6% of Group operating profit: and 25.7% of total Group assets.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.5 million to 4.0 million.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited certain sites in the following locations: Germany, France and the United Kingdom to meet with the relevant component audit teams and attend audit completion meetings for these countries.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement on page 42 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and Responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow HIll Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 09 June 2014
