Management & Governance Independent auditors report to the members of RPS Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of RPS Group Plc In our opinion: n the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: n the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 32 for the Consolidated financial statements and 1 to 13 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the directors report on page 20 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: n we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and n we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same risks identified as in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over the recognition of revenue The Group is engaged in the provision of consultancy services through performing walkthrough procedures.
We tested in detail through contractual arrangements with its customers.
a sample of contracts, including new contracts, by reviewing the Accordingly, the risk in revenue recognition focusses on the contract terms, the related time records, the estimated costs judgment involved in determining the extent of revenue to to complete, the stage of completeness and other assumptions be recognised on fixed price contracts.
There is significant used to determine revenue to be recognised for these contracts.
management judgement in determining the revenue to be recognized and in particular in estimating the stage of completion and the costs to complete the contract at the balance sheet date.
There is a key focus around revenue recognised on contracts which span the year end.
The Groups revenue recognition policy is disclosed in note 1 c and is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements in note 1 h. rpsgroup.
com 31 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for acquisitions Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over management review of the There were 6 acquisitions in the year with a total consideration accounting for acquisitions.
Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 28 to the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their We reviewed managements papers and audited the workings assessment of this risk on page 25 and it is included in the key underlying the business combination accounting for all 6 accounting estimates and judgements in note 1 h. acquisitions in the year.
The key judgements in respect of the Groups accounting We used our internal valuation specialists to challenge and review for acquisitions are the measurement of the fair value of the valuation method and discount rates applied to value each acquired intangible assets, the estimation of their useful lives intangible asset.
We considered and, where necessary challenged, and the measurement of the consideration, including deferred managements key assumptions and judgements underpinning consideration.
In determining the fair value of intangible the valuations, such as the forecast revenues and margins used assets acquired management use a valuation model based on to determine the value of acquired customer relationships.
We assumptions in respect of forecast revenues and margins and benchmarked the discount rates applied to the forecast by discount rates.
management with external peer group published rates and we compared the estimated future customer revenues and margins These acquisition accounting judgements are key as the fair with the historical performance of the respective businesses.
values are included in the balance sheet and the residual goodwill balance is not amortised.
We considered the treatment of deferred payment arrangements against the requirements of IFRS 3 to confirm whether they represented consideration rather than remuneration.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and intangible assets implementation of controls over management review of the goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment.
At 31 December 2014, the net book value of goodwill and intangible assets was 405m 2013: 375m.
The associated We evaluated the adequacy and reasonableness of disclosure is included in note 11 and accounting policy is managements assumptions and the appropriateness of their disclosed in note 1 e. The Audit Committee has included their judgements and forecasts used as part of their value in assessment of this risk on page 25 and it is included in the key use calculations.
accounting estimates and judgements in note 1 h. We used our valuation specialists within the audit team to Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible calculate an acceptable range of discount rates and compared assets is a significant risk due to the quantum of the balance our range with that determined by management.
We examined recorded on the consolidated balance sheet, the number of the short term growth rates by using market data and a review judgements involved in assessing impairment and the continuing of historic growth rates.
We benchmarked the long-term growth challenging economic conditions.
rates against external peer group published rates and market data.
The Groups assessment of the carrying values of goodwill and We also performed sensitivity analysis on the amount and timing intangible assets is based on assumptions of future segmental of cash flows.
cash flows, including assumptions on, short and long-term We also considered the adequacy of the associated disclosure.
revenue and profit growth growth rates and the selection of appropriate discount rates.
Recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over management review of aged At 31 December 2014 trade receivables were 131m 2013: trade receivables and accrued income.
118m net of the provision for impairment and accrued income was 26m 2013: 30m net of the provision for We assessed the adequacy and reasonableness of the impairment.
The trade receivables provision for impairment was assumptions used in managements calculations and the 4.5m 2013: 4.7m and the accrued income provision for appropriateness of judgements on the completeness of the impairment was 4.1m 2013: 5.6m.
provisions against trade receivables and accrued income.
This included a review of the cash received post year end on Recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income is a a sample of customer debts and a review of the ageing analysis significant risk due to the material nature of these balances for trade receivables and accrued income by entity and and the economic and political instability in certain geographic customer, specifically challenging amounts significantly past-due locations where the Group is exposed to the risk of bad but not impaired.
The movements in the impairment provisions for trade receivables and accrued income are disclosed in note 14.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 25.
We discussed these risks with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements is set out on page 25.
32 Report and Accounts 2014 Management & Governance Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.3m 2013: 3.0m, which is 5% 2013: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles and transaction-related costs, 7% of profit before tax 2013: 7% and 1% 2013: 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit is adjusted as this is the key performance measure reviewed by the market.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 66,000 2013: 60,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work on the business units in 7 2013: 6 locations.
In addition to the UK, USA, Australia, Canada, Ireland and the Netherlands, in the current year we also included Norway.
Within the 7 2013:6 locations, 22 2013:21 business units were subject to full audits and 13 2013: 12 business units were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These locations account for 94% 2013: 92% of the Groups net assets, 93% 2013: 95% of the Groups revenue and 99% 2013: 99% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work of the business units in the 7 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 0.1m to 1.4m 2013: 0.1m to 1.5m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor and or another senior member of the Group audit team visits in-scope overseas components on a rotational basis.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: n the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and n the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: n we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or n the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
com 33 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: n materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or n apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or n otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Clennett FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, UK 26 February 2015 34 Report and Accounts 2014
