Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 91 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc Overview of our audit approach Report on the financial statements Materiality Our opinion We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to In our opinion: determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of financial statements as a whole.
the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality ended: for the consolidated financial statements as a whole to be US$250 the group financial statements have been properly prepared in million.
This represents approximately 5% of the consolidated profit accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards before tax adjusted for exceptional items, as disclosed in note 4 on IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: page 114 because, in our view, this is the most appropriate measure the company financial statements have been properly prepared in of underlying performance.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them Practice: and misstatements identified during our audit above US$20 million as the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the reporting for qualitative reasons.
consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of the scope of our audit This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the The group is structured in seven segments being Latin America, remainder of this report.
Europe, North America, Africa, Asia Pacific, South Africa: Beverages What we have audited and Hotels and Gaming, and Corporate.
Each segment is a The consolidated financial statements and company financial consolidation of a number of country-based operating businesses, statements the financial statements, which are prepared by central functions and the groups interests in associates and joint SABMiller plc, comprise: ventures within that geographical region.
the consolidated and company balance sheets as at In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we considered 31 March 2014: the type of work that needed to be performed at the segment, country the consolidated income statement and statement of level or central function by us, as the group engagement team, or by comprehensive income for the year then ended: component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of thenended: involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those segments the company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds or operating businesses to be able to conclude whether sufficient for the year then ended: and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Accordingly, we identified four segments and three country-based The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the operating businesses and one joint venture which, in our view, preparation of the consolidated financial statements comprises required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The their size or their risk characteristics.
Specific procedures were also financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation performed on certain of the groups associates.
This, together with of the company financial statements is applicable law and United procedures performed on central functions and at the group level, Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated Accounting Practice.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have Areas of particular audit focus been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report the Annual Report, In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and asaudited.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors What an audit of financial statements involves judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances and have been consistently applied We considered the following areas to be those that required particular and adequately disclosed: focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus by the directors: and with the audit committee.
Their report on those matters that they the overall presentation of the financial statements.
considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 59 to 61.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
92 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill Australia The directors assess the carrying value of goodwill and We evaluated the groups future cash flow forecasts for the Australian business, conduct an annual impairment review.
Refer to note 10 to including comparing them to the latest board approved budgets and considering the consolidated financial statements.
the historical accuracy of forecasts.
We challenged the key assumptions including forecasted EBITA, longer term growth rates and the discount rate by reference to We specifically focused on the goodwill balance within the past performance, future plans and by performing independent market analysis.
Australian cash generating unit or CGU given its size, recent acquisition and because the impairment review We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of cash flow forecasts, involves subjective judgements by the directors about the including EBITA growth assumptions and the discount rate.
Having ascertained future performance of the business which are sensitive to the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively changes in assumptions.
would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such movements in those key assumptions arising and the appropriateness of related disclosures in the financial statements.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The directors are required to exercise significant We obtained a detailed understanding of the groups tax framework and the judgement when determining the appropriate amount status of the groups tax compliance in significant countries.
We assessed and to provide in respect of potential tax exposures relating tested the appropriateness of tax provisions by reviewing and considering the to challenges by tax authorities.
implications of correspondence and investigations with local tax authorities, the groups internal documentation and external legal opinions where applicable.
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgements required in estimating the amount of provision We recalculated the provisions to assess whether they were in line with the required, the complexity of the calculations involved and groups methodology and accounting policies and that the methodology and the numerous jurisdictions in which the potential accounting policies had been consistently applied.
Furthermore, we assessed the exposures reside.
reasonableness of the quantum of the tax provisions recognised for uncertain tax positions and the appropriateness of related disclosures, utilising our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
Fraud in revenue recognition ISAs UK and Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in We assessed the design of the groups key controls over revenue recognition revenue recognition because of the pressure management and tested the operating effectiveness of those controls at relevant businesses.
may feel to achieve the planned results.
We performed substantive testing of revenue recorded during the year using sampling techniques.
We tested the accuracy and timing of a sample of individual transactions, including consideration of the appropriate recording of customerdiscounts.
We also tested manual journals posted to revenue to determine whether those postings were consistent with the groups revenue recognition policy.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK and Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the group, including the tone at the top arrangements for staff to whistle blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries posted at the segment and country operating businesses to ensure journals were approved and corroborated to supporting evidence.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 93 Going concern On page 89 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern.
We as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the have nothing to report having performed our review.
information necessary for members to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 60, as required by C. 3.8 of As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded the Code, the audit committee has set out the significant issues that that it is appropriate to prepare the consolidated and company it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to Thegoing concern basis presumes that the group and company you if, in our opinion: have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the audit However, because not all future events or conditions can be committee does not appropriately address matters communicated predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups by us to the audit committee.
and the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act2006 Other information in the Annual Report In our opinion: Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial is consistent with the financial statements: statements: or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the 2006: and course of performing our audit: or the information given in the corporate governance statement set is otherwise misleading.
out on pages 49 to 58 in the Annual Report with respect to internal We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Other matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set Adequacy of accounting records and information and out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of explanations received the consolidated and company financial statements and for being Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
in our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the we have not received all the information and explanations we consolidated and company financial statements in accordance with require for our audit: or applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from forAuditors.
branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of accounting records and returns.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Directors remuneration into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, prior consent in writing.
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate governance statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in London our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 2 June 2014 responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
