Strategic report Governance Financial statements The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Disclaimer that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and The purpose of this Annual Report & Accounts is to provide information disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report & Accounts has Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking detection of fraud and other irregularities.
statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial Directors statement condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results The directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 62 to 63, confirm that: forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available To the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial statements, at the date of preparation of this Annual Report & Accounts and the which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should be position and profit of the Group construed as a profit forecast.
To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the Statement of directors responsibilities Strategic report include a fair review of the development and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces including the Directors remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law Each director as at the date of this report further confirms that: and regulations.
So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements of which the Companys auditors are unaware for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom auditors are aware of that information Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the In addition, the directors as at the date of this report consider that the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Companyfor that period.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: to assess the Companys and the Groupsperformance, business model and strategy.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent By Order of the Board State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material M J Robinson, departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company Secretary Company financial statements respectively 3December 2014 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97 Contents Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the to the members of The Sage Group plc 99 Group financial statements Consolidated income statement 104 Our Group financial statements provide a complete picture Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 105 of our 2014 performance.
Consolidated balance sheet 106 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 107 Consolidated statement of cash flows 109 Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 110 Supplementary notes to the Group financial statements.
Earnings per share 122 Operating assets and liabilities 6.
Contingent liabilities 137 Net debt and capital structure 12.
Events after the reporting period 153 18.
Principal subsidiaries 153 98 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 vervew raec reor overnance nanc a s a emen s ra e c re or overnance nanc a s a emen s Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, The Sage Group plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The Sage Group plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2014: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 16 million which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Audit scope Materiality We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 reporting units.
Of these reporting units, the 3 most significant, representing 66% of the group by revenue and 77% by adjusted profit before tax, were visited by the group team during the audit process.
The 13 reporting units where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 96% of Audit scope group revenue and 96% of the group by adjusted profit before tax.
Areas of focus Goodwill impairment assessment Areas of Revenue recognition focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Archer litigation The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
The results of our audit work on the areas below were based on the evidence obtained to support our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated and challenged the composition of managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up.
In particular, we Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page 111 Critical focused on whether they had identified all the relevant CGUs, including Brazil accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 124-126 notes.
We found that management had followed their clearly documented We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance process for drawing up the future cash flow forecasts, which was subject to 1,433.0 million as at 30 September 2014, and because the directors timely oversight and challenge by the Directors and which was consistent assessment of the value in use of the groups Cash Generating Units with the Board approved budgets.
CGUs involves judgements about the future results of the business We compared the current year actual results with the FY14 figures and the discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
included in the prior year forecast to consider whether any forecasts included In particular, we focused our audit effort on goodwill recognised in relation assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic.
Actual performance to the Brazil CGU due to the impairment charge of 44.3 million recognised in Brazil was found to be lower than what had been expected and therefore in the current year.
The remaining goodwill balance related to Brazil is management has reflected actual FY14 revenue growth rates and operating approximately 76.8 million.
The Brazilian business was acquired by the margins in this years model.
We feel this judgement is appropriate given the group in 2012, but performance since acquisition has been impacted by a past performance of Brazil.
general deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in Brazil, resulting For all CGUs, and in particular, Brazil and the US we also challenged in the current year impairment.
managements assumptions in the forecasts for: The most significant element of the goodwill balance is that recognised on long term growth rates, by comparing them to economic and industry the two US CGUs, SBS and SPS, totalling 687.7m.
Although, based on forecasts: and historical performance, the Directors believe there is significant headroom the discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for the company and between the value in use of the CGUs and their carrying value, this remained comparable organisations, as well as considering territory specific factors.
an area of focus for us as a result of the size of the related goodwill balance.
We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
We challenged management on the adequacy of their sensitivity calculations over all their identified CGUs.
We determined that the calculations were most sensitive to assumptions for revenue growth rates and discount rates.
For all CGUs other than Brazil we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment conclusion was triggered.
We discussed the likelihood of such a movement with management and agreed with their conclusion that it was unlikely.
In respect of Brazil we found the assumptions for revenue growth 11% per annum, operating margin 26% and discount rate 17% to be acceptable although note that any change in these assumptions would have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
We tested the apportionment of revenue for licence, software and maintenance Revenue recognition and support was in compliance with Sages accounting manual and Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page 111 Critical accounting recalculated the allocation between these elements of revenue on a sample of estimates and judgements, and page 116 notes.
Where discounts had been given we tested that they had been We focused on this area because the timing of revenue recognition and appropriately allocated between the multiple revenue elements.
its presentation in the income statement has inherent complexities in the We also tested a sample of transactions to ensure that the amount of revenue software industry.
These mainly involve accounting for bundled transactions deferred was accurately calculated and appropriately recognised.
This involved where software and maintenance and support elements are purchased agreeing revenue for maintenance and support services to invoice terms and together, with the portion of the fee relating to software being recognised supporting calculations.
immediately and the remainder of the revenue relating to maintenance For transactions close to the period end we tested that cut-off procedures and support being deferred and recognised over the contractual period.
There is opportunity to misstate the allocation of revenue between the Additionally, where revenue was recorded through journal entries outside of software licence and maintenance and support elements of each individual normal business processes we performed testing to establish whether a service transaction, especially when discounts to the list price are offered.
As such, had been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support the there is the potential for error and for management manipulation of the revenue recognised.
No significant issues were noted from our work.
There is also a risk of error in terms of the calculation of the deferral of revenue, as systems in various territories are not standardised, with the use of spreadsheets common across the group.
100 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 verv ew ra e c re or nanc a s a emen s Strategic report Governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated and challenged managements rationale for the level of provisions Provisions for uncertain tax positions held.
We considered the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page 111 Critical the outturn of previous claims and the macro-tax environment in each territory.
accounting estimates and judgements and pages 121-122 notes.
We obtained and assessed, where relevant, third party advice that management We focused on this area due to the judgement required in assessing the had used to formulate the provisions.
We also considered any penalty regimes level of provisions to cover the risk of challenge of certain of the groups that could apply should any of the tax positions be successfully challenged.
Provisions are held principally in respect of deferred tax From the evidence obtained we consider the level of provisioning to be assets, current tax deductions previously taken and ongoing tax audits.
acceptable in the context of materiality.
We note, however, that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outturns is broad.
Archer litigation We discussed this issue with internal and external legal counsel and read available external information in order to understand the latest position of the Refer to page 47 Strategic report, 73 Audit Committee Report and page proceedings and assess managements views as to the strength of the claim 111 Critical accounting estimates and judgements and page 120 notes.
From the evidence obtained we agreed with managements A compensation claim against the group by Archer Capital for approximately decision not to make a provision.
However, given the uncertainty involved, AUS$144m 88m is currently the subject of legal proceedings.
This claim the matter is not without risk.
is for compensation in respect of an aborted deal to acquire an Australian software company.
The court case took place early in FY14, and a judgment is expected in the near future.
We focused on this issue as there is uncertainty as to the likely outcome.
The Directors have not made a provision for settlement on the basis they consider the likelihood of loss to be remote.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The groups trading operations are made up of operating businesses situated in a number of territories across the globe.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of 18 reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses and head office function.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the group's 18 reporting units, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 reporting units, which were selected either due to their size, or their risk characteristics.
This gave us coverage over 96% of the group by revenue.
As part of our year end audit procedures, the group team visited the UK, French and US component teams the three most significant units in the group.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from our work, as well as meeting local management.
In addition to this, the group team attended all clearance meetings, including Brazil, either in person or by call.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 16 million 2013: 16 million.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax adjusted to add back the goodwill impairment charge of 44.3m.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional costs, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring disproportionate impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.8 million 2013: 0.8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101
