STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 independent auditors report to the members of senior plc opinion on financial statements of senioR plc preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is In our opinion: applicable law and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 GoinG conceRn and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within that the Group is a going concern.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We confirm that: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is the Parent Company financial statements have been properly appropriate: and prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group concern.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and as a going concern.
Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Cash ouR assessment of Risks of mateRial misstatement Flow Statements, and the related Notes 1 to 54.
The financial reporting The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those framework that has been applied in their preparation of the Group that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The financial framework that has been applied in the Risk How tHe scope of ouR auDit ResponDeD to tHe Risk Goodwill impairment We challenged managements key assumptions used in the impairment The carrying value of goodwill of 262.5m, a material balance for model for goodwill, by, but not limited to: the Group, relies on key assumptions and judgements made by the cash flow projections, by considering the consistency of the management concerning the estimated value of future cash flows, forecasts with industry trends, historical budgeting accuracy, and associated discount rates, and growth rates based on managements comparing them with historically achieved results: view of future business prospects.
Further details are disclosed in Note 2 and Note 13 of the financial statements including details of discount rates, by engaging our internal valuation specialists to the impairment charge of 9.4m recorded in the year in relation review assumptions made against external market data: to Composites.
perpetuity rates, by benchmarking against industry and GDP growth In particular, there is a risk around components that underperform rates: and or that have been impacted by adverse market and or trading sensitivities adopted to assess whether they reflected a reasonable circumstances, namely Thermal and Composites.
Tax provisions and deferred tax recognition We assessed the tax provisions in conjunction with our internal tax As the Group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions, experts.
Our assessment included a review of prior year open judgement is required over the levels of tax provisions held at year end computations, assumptions made and related correspondence with principally in the US and UK which are the Groups most significant the tax authorities.
Further information is provided in Note 2 to the We evaluated managements key judgements in respect of deferred financial statements.
tax assets by considering future forecasts of profitability, past results, In addition to this, there is a deferred tax asset of 6.5m as at length of forecast period and risk factors applied and used these to 31 December 2014.
Deferred tax asset recognition as detailed in assess the probability that sufficient future taxable profits will arise.
Note 21 depends on the future profitability of the Groups underlying business and therefore requires judgement over the level of the asset that can be recognised.
com | Senior plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 independent auditors report to the members of senior plc continued Risk How tHe scope of ouR auDit ResponDeD to tHe Risk Inventory levels and provisions We attended inventory counts at all components, and performed Inventory at the year end of 119.3m, as disclosed in note 17, is a detailed substantive testing on a sample of items at significant material balance for the Group which requires management judgement components to assess the cost basis and net realisable value in determining an appropriate costing basis and assessing if this is of inventory.
lower than the net realisable value of the inventory on hand at year end.
We compared the inventory excess and obsolescence provision to the Groups policy and challenged managements judgement of the There are also judgements required in determining inventory excess adequacy of this by performing a review of the level of provisions on and obsolescence provisions as these are based on forecast inventory an aggregate and by unit basis as well as understanding the levels of usage and assessing if the provision level is adequate.
We investigated manual adjustments made to the mechanical application of the inventory obsolescence provisioning policy, and assessed whether they were valid and the appropriateness of the final excess and obsolescence provision.
Acquisition accounting We evaluated and tested the acquisition accounting for Upeca, As outlined in the Audit Committee Report on page 42, Group including using internal valuation experts in the consideration of the management exercised judgement in determining their provisional recognition and valuation of intangible assets.
Our audit procedures valuation of the intangible assets of 17.8m and goodwill of 36.5m included, but were not limited to: agreeing the cash flow projections associated with the Upeca acquisition.
These judgements could have a to supporting audit evidence on a sample basis: assessing the material impact on the financial statements and as such, this is a key appropriateness of the valuation methodology and discount rate audit risk.
applied: and performing substantive testing on a sample of the underlying assets and liabilities of the business.
In the prior, our audit report included an audit risk in relation to warranty 21 of these were subject to full scope audit procedures, of which eight and employee related provisions.
In the current year, this was deemed were performed through a combination of work completed by the local to be immaterial.
component auditors and work completed by the Group team.
The other three key operating locations were subject to specified audit procedures The description of risks above shall be read in conjunction with the on certain balances.
Our work at each location was carried out at levels Audit Committees consideration of certain of these risks as set out of materiality applicable to each individual entity which ranged from on page 42.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the Together with the Group Functions, which were also subject to a full context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to scope audit procedures, the 24 locations represent the principal express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion business units within the Groups two reportable segments and account on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the for 90% 2013: 90% of the Groups revenue and 92% 2013: 94% of risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an individual matters.
appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of ouR application of mateRiality material misstatement identified above.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial At the parent entity level we have also tested the consolidation process statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusions that reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and aggregated financial information of its remaining components not in evaluating the results of our work.
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We also We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.8 million 2013: tested the consolidation at the parent company level.
7.0 million, which is approximately 7.4% 2013: 7.5% of pre tax profit adjusted to exclude the impact of the Composites impairment charge and the write-down of the L85 inventory 2013: adjusted to exclude the auDit coveRaGe by site as a auDit coveRaGe by site as a impact of the impairment charge for Capo Industries and the release of pRopoRtion of 2014 Revenue pRopoRtion of 2014 pRofit the GAMFG Precision LLC deferred consideration.
These items have befoRe tax been excluded in our determination of materiality as they are exceptional and non recurring.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 136,000 2013: 140,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
an oveRview of tHe scope of ouR auDit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that Full scope audit procedures 81% Full scope audit procedures 80% assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit Specified audit procedures 9% Specified audit procedures 12% work at 24 2013: 25 key operating locations.
Reviewed at Group level 10% Reviewed at Group level 8% www.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit misleading statements.
team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was Respective Responsibilities of DiRectoRs anD auDitoR focused at least once every three years.
In years when we do not visit As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, a significant component we include the component audit team in our the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of the findings from their work.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial opinion on otHeR matteRs pRescRibeD by tHe statements in accordance with applicable law and International companies act 2006 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us In our opinion: to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Act 2006: and Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. matteRs on wHicH we aRe RequiReD to RepoRt by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for we have not received all the information and explanations we require our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
for our audit: or scope of tHe auDit of tHe financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the the accounting records and returns.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Directors remuneration estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonopinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been financial information in the annual report to identify material made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or nothing to report arising from these matters.
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Corporate Governance Statement material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Reading, United Kingdom Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are 27 February 2015 required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
