Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group PLC Opinion on financial statements of Serco Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise of the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 57.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Emphasis of matter - Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within Strategic Report in respect of the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As described in the note 2 to the financial statements the group is in the process of re-financing its debt facilities and seeking approval to raise approximately 555m by way of a fully underwritten rights issue.
The completion of the rights issue is dependent on approval from the shareholders of the Company, which at the time of issuing these financial statements has not yet been obtained.
If the proposed rights issue is not approved, the group is forecast to breach the covenants in its loan facilities which, in the absence of a waiver, would result in all of the groups debt facilities becoming repayable on demand.
In this event, the Group does not anticipate that it would have the funds available to repay such amounts at that time, and would need to take alternative steps in order to be able to continue as a going concern.
Whilst we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate, these conditions indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may give rise to significant doubt over the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We describe below how the scope of our audit has responded to this risk.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team and are the same risks identified as in the prior period other than for the inclusion of going concern and covenant compliance.
Risk Going concern & covenant compliance The group is in the process of re-financing its debt facilities and seeking approval to raise approximately 555m by way of a fully underwritten rights issue which as explained in the emphasis of matter paragraph above is dependent on approval from the shareholders of the Company.
In the event that the group does not obtain approval for the rights issue, the group is forecast to breach its covenants by June 2015 which would then make the groups debt payable on demand unless the group is successful in obtaining a waiver for such breach.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We considered the impact of groups ongoing discussions with the groups existing lenders noting the covenant deferment received for the measurements of financial covenants as at 31 December 2014: We assessed the groups financial forecasts and assessed linkage of the forecasts to the business model and medium-term risks: We assessed the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by management and the review and challenge by management on the current forecasts: The group applied commercial and operational sensitivities to its forecasts, We challenged the level of sensitivities applied for reasonableness: and We have also considered the adequacy of the extent of disclosure around the uncertainty affecting the going concern assumption.
We include in Emphasis of matter Going Concern the conclusion of our review of the directors statement in respect of the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
134 Financial Statements Risk Revenue and profit recognition Revenue and profit recognition on contracts requires judgement over complex areas including assessment of stage of completion: consideration of onerous contract terms: recognition of pre-contract costs: and billing and cash flow arrangements.
During the year, the group identified a number of contracts had become onerous.
For these contracts, the group has recognised onerous contract provisions at 31 December 2014 of 476.1m to cover the excess of unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts over the economic benefits expected to be received over the remaining term of such contracts.
Such provisions arise predominantly where contractual volume and or price risk rest with the group and forecast revenues are largely fixed.
The group is required to make operational and financial assumptions over periods that can extend up to 10 years into the future in order to estimate the onerous contract provisions.
The prediction of future events contains inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement.
The group is also required to assess whether the onerous contract provision is a change in estimate arising from an event in the current year or in relation to a prior year error.
Refer to notes 2 and 3 for the groups accounting policy and critical accounting judgements over revenue and profit recognition and refer to note 30 for detailed disclosures of onerous contract provisions recognised by the group as at 31 December 2014.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We carried out tests relating operating effectiveness of controls over revenue recognition, including the timing of, and the right to recognise, revenue.
We performed tests relating to controls over internally generated data that the group relies on to recognise revenue over a sample of its contracts.
We also reviewed forecast costs to complete and profit recognition policies on those contracts where the requirement is to recognise revenue on a percentage of completion basis.
We developed an expectation of revenue from contracts where the contracts stipulate fixed revenue on a regular basis or by using external volume data and applying the rates per unit as per the contract to test the revenue recognised by the group.
Where the revenue is not based on a fixed amount or fixed rates per unit, we have performed test of details by testing the underlying work order change orders for the contracts and the actual expenses incurred to provide those services.
We challenged specific contract forecasts and historical operational costs to assess whether contracts are deemed to be onerous and reviewed provisions for anticipated losses.
This has included a review and challenge of evidence produced by third party experts in determining certain future contract costs.
We have tested the historical accuracy of forecasting costs to complete.
For contracts where onerous contract provisions have been recognised, we have assessed whether the provisions were a change of estimate arising from new circumstances in the year or whether they represented the correction of a prior period error.
Risk Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The group has previously recognised goodwill of 1,270.8m allocated to its various cash generating units CGUs.
In the current year, the group has recognised an impairment of 466.0m of goodwill, including 339.7m in respect of businesses held for sale.
Refer to note 20 for further detail on impairments and notes 2 and 3 for the groups accounting policy and critical judgements over impairment of goodwill.
The test of impairment of goodwill requires management to estimate the recoverable amounts for the CGUs to which such goodwill is allocated.
Estimation of the recoverable amount requires that the group make assumptions in respect of forecast operating cash flows and discount rates.
The group has previously recognised 185.7m of intangible assets and recognised 41.7m of impairment and amortisation in the year.
Refer to note 21 for further detail.
The risk for intangible assets is that there are insufficient future operational cash inflows to allow the recovery of these assets which would then result in impairment.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have considered the results of managements strategy review and its implications on the carrying value of goodwill for related CGUs.
Where businesses are held for sale, we have tested managements estimate of fair value less estimated costs to sell in arriving at the impairment of goodwill.
We challenged managements assumptions within the cash flow forecasts used in the value in use calculations for CGU by reconciling the forecasts to budgets approved by the Board and by performing tests on historical forecasting accuracy.
This has included a review and challenge of discount rates provided by third party experts.
We have challenged the discount rate applied to the separate CGUs by utilising valuation experts, the prevailing group cost of capital at the year end and our understanding of the future prospects of the group.
We have challenged managements assumptions on the recoverability of intangible assets from future cash flows together with managements assumptions in the allocation of intangible corporate assets to related CGUs.
We have tested the consistency of forecasts used by management for the assessment of potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets to the forecasts used for onerous contract provisions, recoverability of deferred tax assets and going concern.
135 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group PLC Risk Presentation of exceptional items The group has recorded 661.5m as expenditures in respect of transactions that fall outside of the normal course of trading.
Refer to note 3 for the groups critical acccounting judgement on identification and note 11 for disclosure of such transactions.
In particular, the group undertook a strategy review in the year and have decided to dispose of certain non-core businesses as disclosed in note 41 to the financial statements which has resulted in impairment of the related goodwill and intangible assets of 339.7m.
Exceptional items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group is required to exercise judgement in respect of what constitutes a one-off transaction that would distort the underlying performance of the business and comparability of the results with previous years.
The group has taken into account the Financial Reporting Councils FRC guidance issued in December 2013 in respect of disclosures of such transactions.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We reviewed the nature of exceptional items, challenged managements judgements in this area and agreed the quantification of the items to supporting documentation.
We assessed the other significant gains losses incurred in the year to ensure that any other items that are exceptional in nature are appropriately disclosed.
On the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, we reviewed and challenged managements forecasts and underlying assumptions in determining the level of exceptional costs recorded.
We obtained and challenged the Directors assessment in respect of inclusion of the costs related to the strategy review in one-off transactions and verified the costs to appropriate audit evidence.
In respect of the sales of businesses in the year, we also tested the component parts of the profit on disposal calculation to source documentation including the proceeds received, the net assets disposed of and the costs associated with the disposal, including goodwill allocation to the disposed entities.
Risk Pension commitments The group has a net pension related asset in relation to its SPLAS scheme of 143.9m and a net pension related liability of 17.4m for other schemes as at 31 December 2014.
Refer to note 34 to the financial statements for further details.
The net asset value is based on actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the groups pension commitments which involves judgement in relation to mortality, price inflation, discount rates, and rate of pension and salary increases.
Judgement is also exercised in determining whether a pension surplus should be recognised as an asset, and the extent of the groups pension liability in respect of franchise and other contractual agreements.
The groups accounting policy and critical judgement disclosures in relation to recognition of pension assets and liabilities are set out in note 2 and 3.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the groups pension commitments, using our own actuarial experts, by making enquiries of the groups external actuary as to the key assumptions made and comparing these to our knowledge of market practice.
As part of our work we obtained advice received by the group and used our internal actuarial specialists to challenge the advice in relation to the groups unconditional right of refund and the recoverability of pension surplus amounts.
We challenged contract specific pension commitments recorded including those arising from franchise arrangements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 92.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 20m, which is set at 3% of adjusted pre-tax loss.
Pre-tax loss has been adjusted by adding back net exceptional costs of 661.5m.
We have used our judgement to continue to use an income statement based measure and have selected pre-tax loss as the basis for setting materiality to reflect the impact of the current year performance of the group.
The loss before tax is adjusted for the net exceptional costs as these costs are of one-off nature and do not represent the underlying performance of the business.
The significant losses in the current year have resulted in the Group being in a net liability position as at 31 December 2014.
Our selected materiality is less than 1% of the total assets of the Group.
In the previous year, materiality for the group was set at 12.5m which was set at 6.5% of the adjusted pre-tax profit for the year ended 31December 2013 and was less than 1% of the total assets of the Group.
The pre-tax profit was adjusted by adding back net exceptional costs of90.5m.
136 Financial Statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2013: 0.2m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Our identification of significant components is in line with the groups identification of its segments.
During the year, the group split the erstwhile UK & Europe UK&E segment into Central Government CG & Local & Regional Government LRG segments and the Australia, Middle East Asia & Asia AMEAA segment into Asia Pacific ASPAC and Middle East ME segments.
Therefore, in the current year, we have identified seven significant components compared to the four in the previous year which are all subject to a full scope audit.
The seven components and the scope of work performed on each are described below: Component Component Component auditor used materiality million CG No 4.6 LRG No 3.9 SGS Yes 3.9 ASPAC Yes 3.9 ME No 3.5 Americas Yes 3.9 Corporates No 3.5 The scope of work over the components set out above provided us with 100% coverage over the groups revenue and net assets.
The group audit team visited the component audit teams in Australia, America and India respectively during the current year audit.
In addition to the component auditors mentioned above, we have directed the performance of audit procedures at the groups shared services centre in India and at the groups ME operations with full oversight by the group audit team.
At the parent entity level, the group audit team has tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
In addition to the components described above, the group audit team issued referral instructions to the auditors for the groups joint ventures and reviewed their audit work to seek assurance over the joint venture results included in the financial statements.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
137 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group PLC Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Knights Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 12 March 2015 138
