Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members ofSevern Trent Plc European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has Opinion on financial statements of Severn Trent Plc been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial In our opinion: statements is applicable law and Financial Reporting Standard F the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the groups profit for the year Going concern then ended: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors F the group financial statements have been properly prepared statement contained within the Directors report on page 82 in accordance with International Financial Reporting that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: F we have concluded that the directors use of the going F the parent company financial statements have been properly concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 statements is appropriate: and Reduced Disclosure Framework: and F we have not identied any material uncertainties that may F the financial statements have been prepared in accordance cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, going concern.
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be IAS Regulation.
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income ability to continue as a going concern.
statement, the Consolidated and Parent statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Parent company Our assessment of risks of material misstatement balance sheets, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Consolidated and Parent company statements of changes in are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the equity and the related Consolidated notes 1 to 46 and Parent allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of company notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework the engagement team: that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determination of the provision for impairment of trade We reviewed and challenged the information used to receivables.
determine the bad debt provision by considering cash collection Provisions are made against Severn Trent Waters trade performance against historical trends and the level of bad debt receivables based on historical experience of levels of recovery charges over time.
Specically, we reviewed the actual history of from accounts in particular ageing categories.
slow paying customers in Severn Trent Water in the period using data analytics to understand the collection of previously aged debtors and to recompute the ageing analysis.
We also tested the key controls relating to the data used in the bad debt model and agreed a sample of this data back to its source, being the billing system.
Revenue recognition risk in relation to the estimation of We challenged the validity of managements estimate of the unbilled revenue in Severn Trent Water.
current year accrued revenue by comparing actual amounts For water and waste water customers with water meters, billed to the estimate made in the prior year to determine the the amount recognised depends upon the volume supplied, accuracy of the estimation techniques.
In addition, we used including an estimate of the sales value of units supplied data analytics to recompute the total level of unbilled revenue between the date of the last meter reading and the year for the current year in Severn Trent Water as well as testing the end.
The estimated usage is based upon historical data and controls around the key data inputs to the model and agreed a assumptions around consumption patterns.
sample of this data back to its source.
84 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill We challenged the key assumptions relating to the estimated Management is required to carry out an annual impairment future cash ows of each cash-generating unit CGU by test.
This is a complex and subjective process which requires considering historical performance against budget and our management to make estimates concerning the future cash understanding of future prospects.
We also compared the ows of each cash-generating unit and associated discount longterm growth rates and discount rates for each CGU to and long term growth rates based on their view of the future industry benchmarks and performed sensitivity analysis to prospects of the business.
understand the cash ow impact of a reasonably possible change in assumptions.
Regarding the 24.7 million impairment charge recorded in The groups US Water Purication business, we considered the impairment indicators identied by management, critically reviewed their assumptions in relation to estimated future cash ows of this CGU and held discussions with senior management to understand the future prospects of this business, and the related sensitivity analysis.
Determining the amount of the groups retirement benefit With support from the pension specialists within our audit obligations.
team, we challenged the assumptions used in the calculation This process is complex and requires management after of the pension scheme deficit as detailed in note 30, taking advice from their actuarial advisors to make a number specicallyregarding the discount rate, ination rate and of assumptions concerning long term interest rates, ination, mortality assumptions with reference to comparable market salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity and other data.
of current and future pensioners.
Determination of current and deferred tax balances With support from the tax specialists within our audit team, we Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires considered the likely outcomes of uncertain tax positions and judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations reviewed correspondence with the tax authorities to assess the with, and enquiries from, tax authorities in a number of appropriateness of the tax balances that have been recorded in jurisdictions.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on 90% of the groups net operating assets and operating profit.
The extent of our testing on Severn Trent Services was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed the materiality of the segments global business operations, in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a principally in the UK and the US, the materiality of each whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts component being lower than that of the group.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and The group audit team follows a programme of planned visits to we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
the auditors of each of the significant components of the group not audited by the group team.
This primarily relates to the Our application of materiality Severn Trent Services audit team in the US.
The Senior Statutory We determined planning materiality for the group to be Auditor or another senior member of the group team visits the 18 million, which is approximately 7% of pre-tax profit before Severn Trent Services audit team in the US at least once every exceptional items and other adjustments including the fair value two years.
These items are excluded Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies to focus on the groups underlying trading performance, Act 2006 consistent with the groups internal and external reporting.
In our opinion: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000, F the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Companies Act 2006: and F the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors An overview of the scope of our audit report for the financial year for which the financial statements Our group audit scope focused on the consolidation at the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
parent company level and the groups two business segments being Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
Severn Trent Water was subject to a full statutory audit and accounts for over 85 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members ofSevern Trent Plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor exception As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express if, in our opinion: an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with F we have not received all the information and explanations we applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and require for our audit: or Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing F adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and been received from branches not visited by us: or Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that F the parent company financial statements are not in our quality control procedures are effective, understood and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report state to the companys members those matters we are required to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or certain elements of the Directors remuneration report.
We have assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and nothing to report arising from these matters or our review.
the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate governance statement Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, companys circumstances and have been consistently applied we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant the Annual Report is: accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all F materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report financial statements: or to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial F apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements and to identify any information that is apparently inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, course of performing our audit: or the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing F otherwise misleading.
If we become aware of any apparent material In particular, we are required to consider whether we have misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired for our report.
during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm Carl D Hughes MA FCA Senior statutory auditor that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misleading statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 28 May 2014 86
