Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc Opinion on the financial statements of Shire plc Going concern In our opinion the consolidated fi financial statements of Shire We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 106 that plc and subsidiaries together the Group : the Group is a going concern.
give a true and fair view of the state of Shire plc and We confi rm that: subsidiaries affairs together the Group as at December 31, we have concluded that the Directors use of the going 2014 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with statements is appropriate: and accountingprinciples generally accepted in the United we have not identi ed any material uncertainties that may Statesof America: and cast signi cant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements agoing concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be The fi financial statements comprise the consolidated predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups balancesheet, the consolidated statement of income, ability to continue as a going concern.
theconsolidated statement of comprehensive income, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement theconsolidated statement of changes in equity, the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below consolidated statement of cash fl ows and the related Notes are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 1to 31.
The fi financial reporting framework that has been the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the applied in the preparation of the Group fi financial statements efforts of the engagement team.
isapplicable law and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The acquisition of ViroPharma Inc ViroPharma In order to assess the allocation of the purchase price to acquired ViroPharma assets and liabilities we have the tested the Groups relevant The Directors determination of the purchase price allocation for the controls and performed testing including the following specific procedures: acquisition of ViroPharma is included at Note 4. veri ed the consideration paid and the structure of the acquisition as We identified a risk that the allocation of purchase price to acquired re ected in the financial statements to the executed agreements: assets and liabilities in relation to the ViroPharma acquisition are not appropriate.
assessed the quali cations and experience of key specialists engaged bythe Group: The underlying judgments made in arriving at fair value include key assumptions as to: considered the Directors use of specialists input and the Directors underlying judgments in determining the key assumptions for the product market, pricing and patient growth over the life cycle of bothcurrently marketed products and In Process Research & the intangible assets relating to the currently marketed products Development assets: CINRYZE, PLENADREN and BUCCOLAM : considered the appropriateness of valuation methodologies used and the probabilities of clinical success for In Process Research & theaccuracy of calculations: and Development intangible assets, taking into account the stage of completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding considered the residual goodwill arising against benchmarks arising thefuture development and commercialisation: and fromother large transactions in the pharmaceutical sector.
other factors such as units of account, applicable tax rate and discount factors.
This has been highlighted as a significant risk due to its size consideration of $3,997 million and the complexity of judgments required.
US rebates and sales deductions We have considered the Groups processes for making judgments in this areaand performed the following procedures: A description of the key accounting policy for sales deductions is included at note 2 d. considered the appropriateness of the process and tested the controls adopted by management in determining the accounting for rebates The Directors are required to make certain judgments in respect of the andother sales deductions: level of rebates and other sales deductions that will be realized against the Groups sales.
undertaken an analysis of the historical accuracy of judgments by reference to actual rebates paid in prior periods: The most significant of these judgments relate to rebates for Medicaid and Managed Care programs in the US for the Neuroscience, GI and con rmed rebate levels accrued during the year against subsequent IM business units.
As at 31 December 2014 the Group held accrued payments: rebates of $564 million and $318 million for Medicaid and Managed analysed and recalculated components the year end liability based on carerespectively.
contracted and statutory rebate rates: and The key elements of the judgments relating to Medicaid and Managed challenged the key elements of judgments that were made in the period Care rebates include: in light of externally veri able data and industry practice.
the size of the wholesale and retail inventory pipeline: We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the transactions within the proportion of the inventory pipeline that will attract speci c the Group financial statements.
rebates: and the future value of rebate per unit expected to be applicable.
We identified a risk that these judgments are not appropriate and as aresult rebate liabilities and sales deductions are recorded at anincorrectlevel.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 107 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Complex tax judgments We have reviewed and challenged managements conclusion by: As Shire transacts globally within a complex group structure, significant reviewing the Groups submission to the Irish tax authorities and the judgment is required in determining the level of tax provisions.
advice received by the Group from third party legal counsel and other advisors: We identified a risk that the judgments made by the Directors are inappropriate.
consulting with our own taxation experts to consider the associated fact pattern and to challenge the judgments made: and In the current year the most significant judgment related to the tax treatment of the break fee of $1.6billion received from AbbVie Inc AbbVie.
testing the appropriateness of the process and controls adopted by management in making the key judgments and the controls over the As disclosed in Note 26 the Directors have assessed the tax treatment entity prepared documents used in the control.
ofthe $1.6billion AbbVie break fee and concluded that this receipt should not be taxable in Ireland.
The impairment of In Process Research & Development An overview of the scope of our audit intangible assets has not been separately reported on in the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding current year because we focused principally on assets of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide acquired in the acquisition of ViroPharma as set out above.
controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement atthe Group level.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the signifi cant issues considered by the Audit Committee Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit discussed on page 67. scope primarily on the audit work in four territories: US basedin Lexington MA, and Chesterbrook PA, UK, Ireland Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed and Switzerland.
These locations represent the principal in the context of our audit of the fi financial statements as a operations and account for 99% 2013: 94% of the Groups whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts net assets, 80% 2013: 82% of the Groups revenue.
Our opinion on the fi financial statements is not modifi ed with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We defi ne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the fi financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or infl uenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of Full audit scope 80 our work.
Review scope 20 We determined materiality for the Group to be $70 million 2013: $60 million, which is below 5% 2013: 5% of adjusted They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis pre-tax profi t, and below 2% 2013: 2% of equity.
Pre-tax forundertaking audit work to address the risks of material profi t has been adjusted by removing the impact of one off misstatement identifi ed above.
Our audit work at the four items such as impairments of intangible assets see Note 26 locations was performed at a materiality level calculated and the $1.6 billion break fee received from AbbVie.
In the byreference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate prior year we also adjusted our materiality calculation to to the relative scale of the business concerned.
exclude the derecognition of the Groups contingent consideration liability in respect of SARcode.
At Group level we also audited the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confi rm our conclusion We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report that there were no signifi cant risks of material misstatement tothe Committee all audit differences in excess of $3 million ofthe aggregated fi financial information of the remaining 2013: $3 million, as well as differences below that threshold components not subject to full scope audit procedures.
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters The Group audit team follows a program of planned site visits that we identifi ed when assessing the overall presentation of that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or the fi financial statements.
his designate visits each of the full scope locations during the year.
In addition to this the Group audit team will visit other locations not in full scope on a rotational basis.
108 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Opinion on other matters prescribed by engagement letter As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities In our opinion: Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the financial statements have been properly prepared in ofthe fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and that would have been applied were the Group incorporated in express an opinion on the fi financial statements in accordance the United Kingdom: with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the We also comply with International Standard on Quality provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools beenapplied were the Group incorporated in the United aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Kingdom: and understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems the information given in the Strategic Report and the include our dedicated professional standards review team Directors Report for the financial year for which the and independent partner reviews.
nancialstatements are prepared is consistent with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as financial statements.
abody, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report by exception that we might state to the Companys members those matters Adequacy of explanations received and accounting we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and or records those further matters we expressly agreed to report to them Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the toreport to you if, in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the we have not received all the information and explanations Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this werequire for our audit: or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Scope of the audit of the financial statements not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts anddisclosures in the fi financial statements suffi cient to give the financial statements are not in agreement with the reasonable assurance that the fi financial statements are free accounting records and returns.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Corporate governance statement have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the reasonableness of signifi cant accounting estimates made by part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the the Directors: and the overall presentation of the fi financial companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK statements.
In addition, we read all the fi financial and nonCorporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report fi financial information in the Annual Report to identify material arising from our review.
inconsistencies with the audited fi financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information become aware of any apparent material misstatements or in the annual report is: inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited James Bates financial statements: or For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired London, United Kingdom in the course of performing our audit: or February 24, 2015 otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identifi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confi rm that we have not identifi ed any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
