Governance Independent auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinions and conclusions arising Carrying value of AB Mauri $1,078m, Tax provisioning included within from our audit North China Sugar 185m and the income tax creditor of 193m 1.
Our opinion on the financial Australian meat business A$286m Refer to pages 61 Audit committee statements is unmodified Refer to pages 61 Audit committee Report, 96 accounting policy and 102 We have audited the financial statements Report, 96 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
of Associated British Foods plc for the 104 to 106 financial disclosures.
52week period ended 13September The risk 2014 set out on pages 86 to 135.
The risk In our opinion: Tax provisioning requires the directors to make judgements and estimates in AB Mauri, North China Sugar and the the financial statements give a true and relation to tax issues and exposures.
Australian meat business have all fair view of the state of the groups and This is one of the key judgemental experienced difficult trading of the parent companys affairs as at areas upon which our audit is focused 84 environments in recent years.
13September 2014 and of the groups due to the group operating in a number AB Mauri has seen increased profit for the 52weeks then ended: of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of competitive pressure through pricing transfer pricing and other international in some of its businesses around the the group financial statements have tax legislation and the time taken for world.
The profitability of North China been properly prepared in accordance tax matters to be agreed with tax Sugar has suffered from low world with International Financial Reporting authorities.
The Australian meat Standards as adopted by the business has seen continuing retailer Our response European Union: price competition, competitor activity and operational challenges.
Our audit procedures included, among the parent company financial In light of these trading challenges, others, using our own tax specialists to statements have been properly there is a risk that the groups significant assist us in assessing and challenging prepared in accordance with capitalised goodwill, other intangibles the assumptions and judgements made UK Accounting Standards: and and property, plant and equipment by the directors: checking the accuracy balances may not be recoverable.
of the computation of local income tax the financial statements have been amounts: and assessment of specific prepared in accordance with the Due to the inherent uncertainty involved local tax issues.
In assessing the requirements of the Companies Act in forecasting and discounting future directors assumptions, we have cash flows which are the basis of the 2006: and, as regards the group used both our own tax specialists assessment of recoverability, this is one financial statements, Article 4 of knowledge of recent tax cases and, of the key judgemental areas upon the IAS Regulation.
where available, information on recent which our audit is focused.
Our assessment of risks of Our response We also considered the adequacy of material misstatement the groups disclosures in respect of In arriving at our audit opinion above on Our audit procedures included, among tax and uncertain tax positions.
the financial statements, the risks that others, testing the principles and had the greatest effect on our audit and mathematical integrity of the groups 3.
Our application of materiality and an the key procedures we applied to discounted cash flow models for each overview of the scope of our audit address them are set out below.
Those cash generating unit CGU.
The materiality for the group financial procedures were designed in the context We compared the groups assumptions statements as a whole was set at 50m.
of the financial statements as a whole to externally derived data as well as our This has been determined with reference and, consequently, we do not express own assessments in relation to key to a benchmark of group profit before any opinion on these individual risks.
assumptions such as projected economic taxation, which we consider to be one of growth, operational improvements in agriculture, cost inflation, margin the principal considerations for members improvement initiatives, selling prices, of the company in assessing the financial volumes and discount rates, as well as performance of the group.
Materiality performing break-even analysis on the represents 4.9% of group profit before tax assumptions.
We compared the sum of and 4.5% after adjusting for non-trading the discounted cash flows to the groups items as disclosed on the face of the market capitalisation to assess the income statement.
reasonableness of those cash flows.
We tested the sensitivity of the We agreed with the Audit committee to impairment calculations to changes in the report to it all uncorrected misstatements key assumptions used by the directors.
we identified through our audit with a value We also assessed whether the groups in excess of 1m for income statement disclosures relating to the sensitivity items, in addition to other audit of the outcome of the impairment misstatements we believed warranted assessment to changes in key reporting on qualitative grounds.
assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of Audits for group reporting purposes were goodwill, other intangibles and property, performed by component auditors in 60 plant and equipment.
locations with key reporting components Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Independent auditors report being in the following countries: United the information given in the Strategic Under the Listing Rules we are required Kingdom, Ireland, US, Spain, Malawi, report and the Directors report for the to review: Thailand, South Africa, Germany, financial year for which the financial the directors statement, set out on Australia, Zambia, Argentina and China.
statements are prepared is consistent page 57, in relation to going concern: These group procedures covered 88% with the financial statements.
and of total group revenue: 89% of total group 5.
We have nothing to report in profits and losses that made up the the part of the Corporate governance respect of the matters on which we groups profit before taxation: and 94% statement on page 52 relating to are required to report by exception of total group assets.
The remaining 12% the companys compliance with Under International Standards on Auditing of revenue, 11% of group profit before the nine provisions of the 2010 UK UK and Ireland we are required to report tax and 6% of total group assets Corporate Governance Code to you if, based on the knowledge we is represented by 262 reporting specified for our review.
acquired during our audit, we have 85 components around the world.
Whilst identified other information in the annual We have nothing to report in respect of none of these individual 262 reporting report that contains a material the above responsibilities.
components represented more than inconsistency with either that knowledge 1.6% of revenue, profit before tax or Scope of report and responsibilities or the financial statements, a material total group assets we considered the As explained more fully in the Statement misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise aggregate risk from these components of directors responsibilities set out on misleading.
when performing our audit planning and page 83, the directors are responsible for during our final analytical procedures over In particular, we are required to report to the preparation of the financial statements the group financial statements.
Local you if: and for being satisfied that they give a statutory audits are performed over true and fair view.
A description of the we have identified material some of these components, but generally scope of an audit of financial statements inconsistencies between the these are completed at different times is provided on the Financial Reporting knowledge we acquired during our during the year.
uk audit and the directors statement that auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made The audits undertaken for group they consider that the annual report and solely to the companys members as a reporting purposes at all key reporting financial statements taken as a whole is body and is subject to important components of the group were fair, balanced and understandable and explanations and disclaimers regarding performed to local materiality levels.
provides the information necessary for our responsibilities, published on our These local materiality levels were set shareholders to assess the groups website at www.
com uk individually at each component and performance, business model and auditscopeukco2013a, which are agreed with the group audit team and strategy: or incorporated into this report as if set out ranged from 2,000 to 34m.
the Governance section of the annual in full and should be read to provide an Detailed instructions were sent to all report describing the work of the Audit understanding of the purpose of this the auditors in these locations.
These committee does not appropriately report, the work we have undertaken instructions covered the significant address matters communicated by and the basis of our opinions.
areas that should be addressed by the us to the Audit committee.
component auditors which included the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are relevant risks of material misstatement Richard Pinckard required to report to you if, in our opinion: detailed above and set out the Senior Statutory Auditor information required to be reported back adequate accounting records have not for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, to the group audit team.
In addition to been kept by the parent company, or Statutory Auditor those components audited directly by returns adequate for our audit have not the group audit team, members of the been received from branches not Chartered Accountants group audit team visited China, Germany, visited by us: or 15 Canada Square Ireland, Mexico, Spain, South Africa and London the parent company financial the US.
Telephone meetings were also E14 5GL statements and the part of the held with the auditors at those locations Remuneration report to be audited and the majority of the other locations 4 November 2014 are not in agreement with the that were not physically visited.
accounting records and returns: or 4.
Our opinion on other matters certain disclosures of directors prescribed by the Companies Act remuneration specified by law are 2006 is unmodified not made: or In our opinion: we have not received all the information the part of the Remuneration report and explanations we require for to be audited has been properly our audit.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
