FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report Independent auditors report to the members Overview of Smith & Nephew plc Materiality Overall Group materiality of $45 million which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial Opinion on financial statements information of two components and audit In our opinion: procedures on specific balances for a further ten components.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: The 12 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 81% of the groups the group financial statements give a true and fair view of the profit total assets, 64% group revenue and 85% of the for the year ended 31 December 2014: groups profit before tax and 86% of the groups the group financial statements have been properly prepared in adjusted profit before tax.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs Areas of focus Recognition and measurement of provisions for as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : litigation reserves and contingent liabilities the parent company financial statements have been properly Recognition and measurement of provisions prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted for taxation Accounting Practice: Existence and valuation of inventory the group and the parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act Timing of revenue recognition and measurement of 2006: and related reserves the group financial statements have been prepared in accordance Judgements determining purchase price allocation with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
on acquisitions What we have audited Our application of materiality We have audited the financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc for We determined materiality for the group to be $45 million 2013: the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise: $45 million, which is calculated as 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items, as described Group Company below, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining The Group income statement The Company balance sheet materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the The Group statement of The related notes 1 to 9. stakeholders of the entity.
Adjustments are made to profit before tax for comprehensive income acquisition related costs of $118m and restructuring and rationalisation The Group balance sheet expenses of $61m as highlighted in note 2.2 of the financial statements, as well as acquisition-related finance costs of $7m.
This The Group cash flow statement provided a basis for identifying and assessing the risk of material The Group statement of changes misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further in equity audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the of the groups overall control environment and other qualitative group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance Standards Board IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has for the group should be 75% 2013: 75% of planning materiality, namely been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements $33.75 million 2013: $33.75 million.
Our objective in adopting this is the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and United Kingdom approach was to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
that the aggregate of total undetected and uncorrected misstatements for the accounts as a whole did not exceed our planning materiality.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $3.32m to $21.58m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.25 million 2013: $2.25 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
This page does not form part of Smith & Nephews Annual Report and Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
106 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION and purchase price allocation risks are audited centrally.
For the Scope of our audit remaining components, we performed other procedures to test or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and assess that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable these components in relation to the group financial statements.
The assurance that the financial statements are free from material components subject to full audit or partial scope audit procedures misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an make up 81% of the groups total assets, 64% of the groups revenue, assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 85% of the groups profit before tax and 86% of the groups adjusted the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and profit before tax, although for countries where a partial scope audit was adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting performed, not all balances that comprise these coverage percentages estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of have been audited.
In addition, we read all the financial and The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify Auditor or his designate visits each of the locations where the Group any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the significant of them at least once a year.
For all full scope entities, in course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent addition to the location visit, the group audit team participated in material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications the component teams planning, including the component teams for our report.
discussion of fraud and error.
The group audit team have also reviewed Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to key working papers and challenged conclusions on significant risk the group financial statements, we selected 12 components which areas, as identified at the scoping stage, primarily inventory and represent the principal business units within the groups two reportable revenue recognition.
The group audit team visited nine locations in total segments.
Two of these components were subject to a full audit and over the course of the current year audit.
ten were subject to a partial scope audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement Our assessment of risks of material misstatement outlined below and the materiality of the locations business operations relative to the group.
The scope of these components may not have We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of included testing of all significant accounts of the location but will have material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of group.
Partial scope component testing of significant risks is primarily resources and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more focused on the inventory and revenue recognition risks as tax, litigation senior members of the team: Principal risk area and rationale Audit response Recognition and measurement of provisions for litigation reserves and contingent liabilities The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entails The litigation reserve at 31 December 2014, included in legal and other risk of product liability claims and patent infringement issues due provisions of $118m in note 17.1 to the financial statements, covers a to the surgical nature of the products and the competitive nature of number of open legal matters as described in detail in note 17.3 to the the industry.
We held discussions with in-house legal counsel to understand the status of litigation cases.
We read legal invoices and Determining the impact and likely outcome of any litigation matters corresponded directly with external legal advisors to understand the requires significant judgement due to the uncertainty of the litigation fact patterns of the cases.
We reviewed managements calculations of process and the level of royalty that may be payable for infringed provisions, including their assessment of potential royalties payable products and raises the risk that those legal provisions may for past sales and challenged and corroborated key assumptions.
Recognition and measurement of provisions for taxation The tax charge of profits is determined according to complex tax laws The details of the tax charge are included in note 5.1 to the and regulations.
Where the effect of these tax laws and regulations is financial statements.
unclear, judgements are used in determining the liability for the tax to We involved tax specialists in the US and the UK to assist us in be paid.
assessing and challenging the assumptions and judgements made As a multinational Company, tax audits can be ongoing in a number of by the company in their recognition and measurement of provisions jurisdictions at any point in time and tax returns are subject to possible for taxation.
We tested tax calculations and challenged the companys challenge in most locations in which the Company operates.
transfer pricing arrangements, tax planning activities and status and findings from ongoing tax audits to assess the reasonableness of the There can be significant judgement involved in determining the provisions recorded.
This included an assessment of the likelihood provision for tax liabilities.
that known uncertain tax positions would result in a tax liability to the company.
Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued Principal risk area and rationale Audit response Existence and valuation of inventory The Company has high levels of finished goods inventory, as detailed We carried out tests of controls over routine inventory processes, in note 12 to the financial statements, some of which are located at including cycle counts and period end counts.
customer premises to be available for immediate use.
We independently counted or confirmed inventory levels at key Complete sets of products, including outsizes, have to be made component locations and also reviewed the results of managements available in this way, with these sizes used less frequently.
Towards testing results for a sample of counts that we did not attend.
the end of a products life cycle, these inventory levels are more than is We challenged managements judgements and assumptions used required and therefore excess to requirements.
in determining the inventory excess and obsolescence provision in order to assess that their calculation represents excess and obsolete inventory.
We understood their plans for launching new In estimating the appropriate value for inventory, management has to product lines or discontinuing product lines to assess the adequacy apply judgement on how much of the inventory on hand will ultimately of the provision, as well as reflecting on the adequacy of prior be used, considering the length of product lives predicted, product year provisions.
usage and how quickly products will be phased out.
We tested managements calculation to eliminate intercompany profit held in inventory as goods are sold between group companies, including the recalculation and vouching of margins on a sample basis.
Timing of revenue recognition and measurement of related reserves Revenue recognition is one of the key areas of audit focus, particularly We carried out tests of controls over revenue recognition, including in respect of the risk of management override and the risk of cut-off the timing of revenue recognition, as well as substantive testing, of revenue for sales to distributors with the need for the risks and analytical procedures and assessing whether the revenue recognition rewards of ownership to have passed before revenue is recognised.
policies adopted complied with IFRS as detailed in note 2.1 to the financial statements.
Procedures included independent confirmation with distributors, reviewing shipping terms for items despatched to test that the risk and reward of ownership had passed, cut off testing of items despatched close to the year end date and a review of returns and credit notes issued subsequent to the year end.
We also performed detailed trend analysis by period and by major customer to identify unusual fluctuations.
Judgements determining purchase price allocation on acquisitions On 27 May 2014, the Group acquired ArthroCare Corporation for We focused on this area given the significant judgements involves $1.7bn.
in assessing the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as this directly impacts the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition.
The acquisition accounting includes the need to determine the fair The fair values are based on valuation techniques built, in part, on value of the acquired assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
assumptions around the future performance of the business.
We This included complex valuation considerations and required the use challenged the assumptions underpinning the valuations, assessed of specialists.
the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities, audited the The most significant judgements relate to the valuation of intangible accounting differences upon IFRS conversion and evaluated the assets acquired, the uplift to the value of inventory and property, plant adequacy of the disclosures.
and equipment and the value of any provisions recorded.
We also discussed the specialist valuations with the specialists and read their reports, with involvement of our own specialists to conclude on the appropriateness of the valuation.
108 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Opinion on other matter prescribed by any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the the Companies Act 2006 audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set made: or out on page 103, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the we have not received all the information and explanations we require group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards the directors statement, set out on page 103, in relation to going require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical concern.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code specified for our review.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for Michael Rudberg Senior statutory auditor our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London Matters on which we are required to report 25 February 2015 by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
