STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Independent auditors US reports Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and shareholders of Firm to the Board of Directors and shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc Smith & Nephew plc We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of Smith & We have audited Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial Nephew plc as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the related group reporting as of 31 December 2014, based on criteria established in income statements, group statements of comprehensive income, Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee group cash flow statements and group statements of changes in of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 2013 shareholders equity for each of the three years in the period ended framework, the COSO criteria.
Smith & Nephew plcs management 31 December 2014.
These financial statements are the responsibility is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
over financial reporting included in the accompanying Evaluation of Internal Controls.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Auditors responsibility companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free assurance about whether effective internal control over financial of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Smith & of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements Nephew plc at 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial the period ended 31 December 2014, in conformity with International reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: Standards as adopted by the European Union.
2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 31 December 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys Organisations of the Treadway Commission 2013 framework assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
and our report dated 25 February 2015 expressed an unqualified Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial opinion thereon.
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England In our opinion, Smith & Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 25 February 2015 2014, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the related group income statements, group statements of comprehensive income, group cash flow statements and group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2014 of Smith & Nephew plc and our report dated 25 February 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 25 February 2015 Smith & Nephew Annual report 2014 105
