Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Smiths Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements, : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
What we have audited Smiths Group plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year end 31 July 2014: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 July 2014: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the consolidated cash-flow statement for the year then ended: and the accounting policies and notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 18 million which represents 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in 15 countries covering 43 reporting units.
Our audit scope addressed 72% of the Groups revenues and 73% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Areas of focus Revenue recognition, existence and cut off, together with long term contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions.
Working capital and associated provisions within the Smiths Detection Division.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
In all of our audits, we also address the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as Areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
Each of the areas of focus below are also referred to in the Audit committee report on page 89 and in the Accounting policies on pages 129 to 130.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 119 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued Revenue recognition, existence and cut off, together with long term contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We focused on revenue recognition for all divisions in the final For all the divisions we assessed whether the Groups revenue recognition accounting period to check that revenue was recorded in the correct policies complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and tested the period.
Specifically we considered whether revenue was recognised based on the transfer of the risks and rewards of In the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions we focused ownership to the customer and the accounting period in which services on long term contract accounting.
The recognition of revenue is were rendered by testing a sample of revenue items to contract and largely dependent on the terms of the underlying contract with the shipping documents, with a specific focus on transactions which occurred customer, including achieving milestones within those contracts.
As these contracts are usually long term in nature, sometimes spanning a number of reporting periods, changes in conditions Where appropriate we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the and circumstances over time can result in variations to the original operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording of revenue contract terms, including cost overruns which require further in the correct period.
negotiation and settlements resulting in the need for mark down We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any provisions.
unusual or irregular items, and the reconciliations between the revenue systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
In the case of the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions, for a sample of contracts, we read extracts of the relevant customer agreements and tested the accounting for contractual milestones against the analysis of the contract position that management maintains.
This testing included evaluating customer acceptance of the work done to establish whether contractual milestones had been achieved, assessing the impact of any ongoing disputes, and assessing the reasonableness of the directors estimates of costs to complete the contract.
Working capital and associated provisions within the Smiths Detection Division Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 14, 15 and 16 pages 155-156.
We evaluated the directors forecasted sales for each significant category of We focused on this area because inventory provisions include slow moving inventory by comparing them to historical sales and orders for subjective estimates and are influenced by assumptions concerning future sales.
future revenue, and the Group also has material amounts of trade We compared the historical provision for bad debts to the actual amounts receivables that are overdue and not impaired as disclosed in note 15 written off, to determine whether the directors estimation techniques were to the financial statements.
reasonable and considered the adequacy of provisions for bad debts for We focused in particular on the Smiths Detection division given significant customers at subsidiary level, taking into account future sales its financial performance together with the inherent judgements forecasts and specific credit risk assessments for each customer.
associated with large programmes and complex contractual terms.
In addition, we performed the procedures documented above for revenue The key associated risks were recoverability of billed and unbilled recognition in relation to the key long term revenue contracts.
trade receivables and the valuation of work in progress and inventory.
Managements related provisions are subjective and are influenced by assumptions concerning future selling prices and the level of sales activity.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments, particularly in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 12 pages 153-154.
We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill, acquired intangibles which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations and development costs on the balance sheet, as detailed in note and comparing them to the latest Board approved divisional budgets.
We 11 to the financial statements.
The risk is that these balances are challenged: overstated.
the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts We focused on the estimated values in use of the Smiths Interconnect by comparing them to historical results, economic and industry forecasts: Power cash generating unit, which has a net book value of goodwill and of 114.0m, and the Smiths Detection division, which has a net book the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group value of goodwill of 368.6m, given their financial performance in the year.
Smiths Interconnect Powers value in use exceeds its carrying For the Smiths Interconnect Power cash generating unit and Smiths value by 7.8m and Smiths Detections value in use exceeds its Detection division, we evaluated the reasonableness of the Directors carrying value by 165m.
forecast performance by performing a sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, in particular: the current order book: the proportion of recent tenders which have been successful: and independent projections of the expected growth of key markets.
We also reviewed the directors assessment of the fair value less costs of disposal.
Having ascertained the extent of change in the assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions and the disclosures on sensitivity analyses set out in note 12.
120 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 23 page 165-167.
In John Crane Inc. we used our own specialist knowledge to challenge John Crane, Inc. a US based subsidiary of the Group, is currently one managements assumptions underlying the adverse judgement and of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously defence cost provisions.
This included a review of the model maintained manufactured which contained asbestos.
As described in note 23 to by managements valuation expert, in addition to testing the mathematical the financial statements, a provision of 204.1m has been made for accuracy of the underlying calculations and the input data.
the future defence costs which the Group is expected to incur and the At Titeflex Corporation we challenged managements underlying expected costs of future adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc. assumptions supporting their provision.
This included an evaluation of the Titeflex Corporation, another US based subsidiary of the Group, has valuation model, in addition to testing the mathematical accuracy of the received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking underlying calculations and the input data such as the average amount of recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly settlements, the number of future settlements and the period over which caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
expenditure can be reasonably estimated.
It has also received a number of product liability claims regarding this We also discussed these matters with the Companys internal legal counsel, product, some in the form of purported class actions.
As described obtained letters from external counsel and evaluated the appropriateness of in note 23 to the financial statements, a provision of 61.1m has been the disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect of these claims.
We focused on these areas because there is significant judgement involved in the assumptions used to estimate the provisions, in particular those relating to the US litigation environment such as the future level of claims and the cost of defence.
As a result the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 7 pages 142-143.
We evaluated the directors assessment as to whether there will be The Group has recognised 185m deferred tax assets on the balance sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of sheet, the recognition of which involves judgement by management deferred tax assets by comparing the directors forecasts of future profits to as to the likelihood of the realisation of these deferred tax assets, historical results, and evaluating the assumptions used in those forecasts.
which is based on a number of factors including whether there will be We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
communications from taxation authorities to identify uncertain tax positions.
The Group has recognised provisions against uncertain tax positions, We assessed the adequacy of the directors taxation provisions by the valuation of which is a highly judgemental area.
The Group has considering factors such as whether the matter represents a permanent a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number of or temporary difference, and whether the provision addresses possible jurisdictions.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to note 9 pages 145-150.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the assumptions they made in The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement relation to the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension plans assets of 122.6m and net post-retirement liabilities of 364.3m, and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates to national which are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of the and industry averages.
We also focussed on the valuations of pension plan liabilities and the The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels pension assets as follows: of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation assumptions.
Unfavourable changes in a number of the key of the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
We obtained third party confirmations on ownership and valuation of There is also some judgement in the measurement of fair value of pension assets.
Where new census data is available in the year we have tested the controls The recognition of post-retirement plan net assets for accounting at the scheme administrators to assess whether this data is accurate.
purposes is dependent on the rights of the employers to recover the Where there is no new census data in the year we have assessed the roll surplus at the end of the life of the scheme.
forward assumptions used by the actuaries.
How we approached the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the geographic structure of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industries in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The Group is organised into five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek and is a consolidation of over 250 units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 121 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc Continued The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 28 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 15 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
We conducted work in 15 countries and the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in the North America and Europe.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures were responsible for 72% of the Groups revenues and 73% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury, postretirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and at the Groups Head Office.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 18 million 2013: 20 million How we determined it 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Headline operating profit is operating profit adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, net pensions finance credit and financing gains losses from currency hedging.
We have also considered the other items of income and expense included within statutory profit before tax to ensure the materiality determined was reasonable.
Rationale for benchmark applied We applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m 2013: 0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 111, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Group directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 118, in accordance with Code Provision C. 1.1, that they consider We have no exceptions the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information to report arising from necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially this responsibility.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 89 as required by Code Provision C. 3.8, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
122 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, set out on page 118, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Martin Hodgson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 September 2014 a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 123 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
