FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE EXPLORATION OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EVALUATION ASSETS OF SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC In accordance with relevant accounting standards, E&E costs are assessed for impairment at least annually.
This is considered a key risk due to the significant IN OUR OPINION: judgments and estimates that are required to be assessed, and the highly material nature of the related balances in the financial statements.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Groups profit for the year then ended: We evaluated and challenged managements assessment of whether there were any indicators of impairment for the Groups material E&E assets, taking the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance into consideration the impairment indicators outlined in IFRS 6 Exploration for with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and Evaluation of Mineral Resources such as: European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in expiry or relinquishment of exploration and evaluation licences: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in no expenditure for further exploration and evaluation in the specific area is accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and planned or budgeted for: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the whether exploration and evaluation activities have not led to the discovery requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
decided to discontinue activities in the area: or The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the whether data exists to suggest that the carrying amount of the exploration Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, development or by sale.
the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Our procedures included interviews with key operational and finance staff is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards in London to understand the current status and future intention for each the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the asset, confirming that all assets which remain capitalised are included in provisions of the Companies Act 2006. future budgets and plans, and identifying any fields where the Groups right to explore is either at, or close to, expiry.
We corroborated material facts, for example by agreement to approved internal or operator budgets and work programmes or contractual agreements.
In the current year, particular focus GOING CONCERN was given to the Groups interests in the Albertine Graben, Cabinda and Nanga IIA due to the facts and circumstances surrounding these projects As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on including those matters described in the review of operations on page 15 to page 50 that the Group is a going concern.
Where an asset has been impaired, we have obtained evidence about the events that led to the impairment.
we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and Details of the Groups policy on exploration and evaluation assets is given in note 2 of the financial statements and note 14 of the financial statements we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant includes details of the Groups exploration assets and the impairments of doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
$73.6 million which arose during the year.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a OIL AND GAS RESERVES ESTIMATES going concern.
This was considered to be a key risk due to the subjective nature of reserves estimates and their impact on the financial statements through impairment and DD&A calculations, and because the TGT field, which contributes the OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF substantial majority of SOCOs estimated reserves and DD&A, is particularly complex and in a relatively early stage of production with uncertainty over its MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT further development.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that Management has engaged third party consultants to develop a simulation had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in model of the TGT field and to prepare an estimate of reserves as at the year the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We assessed the end using standard industry reserve estimation methods and definitions.
For design and implementation of key controls regarding the risks below.
These CNV, management prepared its own revised estimate of reserves with the risks are the same as those discussed in 2013 with the addition of impairment assistance of an internal expert.
relating to producing assets on the grounds that there has been a significant drop in the oil price.
75 other significant assumptions used to generate the fair value amounts How the scope of our audit responded to the risk associated with the Groups producing assets.
We compared the oil and gas reserves figures used in the DD&A calculations and in managements impairment calculations with the estimates produced by the third-party for Block 16-1 TGT and by During the year with regards to CNV, an impairment charge of $60.5 million management for Block 9-2 CNV.
For TGT we have read the third party consultants report on their reservoir How the scope of our audit responded to the risk modelling work and their subsequent report to management on year end As well as our work on reserves above, we have assessed and challenged reserves estimates.
Assisted in our challenge by our own internal experts, these assumptions by reference to publicly available information, third party we met with the third party consultants to discuss and assess their scope information, our knowledge of the Group and industry and also budgeted of work, expertise and objectivity.
We reviewed their terms of engagement and forecast performance.
We have performed stress tests for a range and assessed whether the approach they had applied in their reserves of reasonably possible scenarios including oil price on managements estimation advice was appropriate and in line with our expectations, and impairment model and tested the calculations for mechanical accuracy.
We considered whether there were any indications of bias.
specifically considered whether the incremental fair value attributed to the CNV contingent resources was appropriate, and whether the additional For CNV we read the paper prepared by managements internal expert and discounts applied by management in measuring this incremental fair value discussed the paper with management, assisted in our challenge by our were reasonable.
We assessed whether the approach they had applied in their reserves estimation advice was appropriate and in line with our Where an impairment charge was identified, we assessed whether expectations, and considered whether there were any indications of bias.
an appropriate provision has been recorded, and that appropriate disclosures had been made.
Further details are provided in note 15 to the Managements reserves estimates are included on page 100 to the annual financial statements.
In addition, management has explained the scope of work of the third party and their findings on page 18 in the review of operations, as The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with well as highlighting oil and gas reserves as a key source of estimation the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee uncertainty in note 4 to the financial statements.
We assessed whether discussed on pages 61 to 62. these disclosures are consistent with the amounts used in managements DD&A and accounting calculations and fairly describe the impact of the Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context estimation uncertainty.
of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial ACCOUNTING FOR DEPLETION, DEPRECIATION statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, AND AMORTISATION OF PRODUCING OIL AND GAS ASSETS and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
This is considered a key risk due to the calculation including judgmental estimates of the remaining commercial oil & gas reserves, the estimation of future capital works and related expenditure required to extract those OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY reserves and the date of application relating to any revisions to estimates.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial How the scope of our audit responded to the risk statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a As well as the work performed on the reserves quantities included in the reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use DD&A calculation, as above, we compared the estimates of future capital materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating expenditure to plans and budgets.
We checked that the development the results of our work.
scenarios from which capital expenditure estimates are derived are consistent with the scenario on which reserves estimates are based.
We When setting materiality, among other factors we considered the Groups considered the timing of adoption of the revised reserves and future profit before tax in the current period as well as that in recent periods: capital expenditure estimates for the purposes of calculating DD&A in the occurrence of any non-recurring or volatile gains and losses such light of the timing of events and circumstances that led to the revision to as impairments and exploration write offs and the level of consolidated estimates.
We re-performed the DD&A calculation to check for mechanical shareholders equity.
We determined materiality for the Group to be accuracy.
Note 2 to the financial statements provides details on the Groups $19.0 million 2013: $27.0 million which is 12.4% 2013: 8.1% of profit before policy on DD&A.
tax, 6.5% 2013: 6.3% of profit before tax adjusted for impairments and exploration write offs and 1.9% 2013: 2.5% of equity.
Impairment of producing oil and gas assets This is considered as a key risk due to the significant judgments and Materiality for each of the reporting components was set at between estimates that need to be made in assessing whether any impairments have $9.5 million and $13.3 million, depending on the relative size of arisen in the year and quantifying any such impairments.
This is a particular the component.
area of focus for 2014 given the significant fall in oil price during the year and the interrelated downward revision to reserves estimates.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $380,000 2013: $595,000 Management reviewed each of its two producing fields for indicators of as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted impairment, identifying in each case that indicators of impairment were reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk present.
Management has estimated the fair values less costs of disposal Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the of each field and compared these to the carrying amount of each field overall presentation of the financial statements.
Managements fair value estimate is based on key assumptions which include: oil price: AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT gas price: Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group discount rate: and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we reserve estimates and production profiles: focused primarily on the Groups two key business units, being Vietnam future operating and capital expenditure: and which is accounted for in Vietnam and in London and Africa which is accounted for in Africa and London, together with the head office function | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED in London.
As with the prior year, these locations account for all of the Groups Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
All of these locations were subject to understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those a full scope audit.
matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified The Group audit team assesses each year how best to be appropriately any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
involved in the audit work undertaken in Vietnam.
In the current year, in addition to regular interaction and review through correspondence, telephone and other electronic media, a senior member of the audit team visited the Vietnam component during the audit planning phase.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with In our opinion: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our we have formed.
audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF visited by us: or THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Directors remuneration or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial these matters.
and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any Corporate Governance Statement information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to Bevan Whitehead ACA Senior statutory auditor report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements: or London, United Kingdom 11 March 2015 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the
