Financial Statements Auditors Reports on the Financial Statements andonInternal Control overFinancial Reporting SarbanesOxley Act Section 404 The report set out below is provided in Exchange Commission.
Those reports are KPMG LLP has also reported separately compliance with International Standards on unqualified and include opinions on the onthe Company Financial Statements of Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG LLP has Group Financial Statements and on AstraZeneca PLC and on the information also issued reports in accordance with theeffectiveness of internal control over inthe Directors Remuneration Report thatis standards of the Public Company Accounting financial reporting as at 31 December 2014 described as having been audited.
This audit Oversight Board in the US, which will be Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
The report is set out on page 190. included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F Directors statement on internal control over to be filed with the US Securities and financial reporting is set out on page 129.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofAstraZeneca PLC only Opinions and conclusions arising 3.
Our assessment of risks of Our response fromour audit materialmisstatement Our principal audit procedures included: 1.
Our opinion on the Group financial We summarise below the risks of material testing the Groups controls surrounding statements is unmodified misstatement that had the greatest effect revenue recognition and key manual and We have audited the Group Financial on our audit, our key audit procedures systems-based controls in the order-to-cash Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the toaddress those risks and our findings transaction cycle.
This included year ended 31 December 2014 set out on from those procedures in order that the reconciliations between sales systems pages 134 to 189.
In our opinion the Group Companys members as a body may better andthe general ledger: assessing whether Financial Statements: understand the process by which we arrived appropriate revenue recognition policies are at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the applied through comparison with accounting give a true and fair view of the state of the result of procedures undertaken inthe standards: and performing testing over Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 context of and solely for the purpose of our revenue at significant components, which and of its profit for the year then ended: statutory audit opinion on the Group Financial included analysis of product sales year on have been properly prepared in Statements as a whole and consequently year, corroborating movements compared accordance with International Financial are incidental to that opinion, and we do with expectations and inspection of contracts Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted not express discrete opinions on separate with customers.
Our audit work in respect of by the European Union EU : and elements of the Group Financial Statements.
the accrual forUS rebates, chargebacks and returns involved testing key controls including have been prepared in accordance with Revenue recognition $26,095m theGroups review of claims, credits and the requirements of the Companies Act Refer to page 98 Audit Committee Report, system accrual rates.
We also assessed 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
page 138 accounting policy, pages 143 and theaccuracy of the accrual calculation, 149 financial disclosures and page 82 2.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSsas corroborated inputs and key assumptions, financial risk management issued by the International Accounting both to internal and independent sources, Standards Board IASB The risk and considered the historical accuracy of the As explained in the Group accounting policies Revenue recognition is one of the key accrual.
In addition, due to the reduced section of the Group Financial Statements set judgmental areas for our audit, particularly profitability of the Group, we scoped in an out on pages 138 to 142, theGroup, in in respect of estimates made for rebates, additional component, MedImmune, LLC, addition to complying with its legal obligation chargebacks and returns under contractual forthe first time, for the latter procedures.
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has and regulatory requirements in the United Wealso assessed the adequacy of the also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
States of America US which are deducted Groups disclosures of its revenue recognition in arriving at revenue.
policy, the judgment involved and other In our opinion, the Group Financial related disclosures.
Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
130 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Financial Statements Our findings assessing the reasonableness of the Groups to the Groups business and those relating In determining the appropriate revenue assumptions through consideration of trial to the conduct of business generally.
We then recognition policy to be applied in calculating readouts, regulatory announcements and the analysed correspondence with regulators, rebates, chargebacks and returns under Groups internal governance and approval reviewed legal expenses incurred during the contractual and regulatory requirements, process.
We also interviewed a range of key year, monitored external sources and there is room for judgment and we found Research, Development and Commercial considered managements assessment of that within that, the Groups judgment personnel and compared the assumptions the probability of defending any litigation was balanced.
We found the assumptions with industry practice where available.
For and the reliability of estimating any obligation.
used and the resulting estimates to be launched products we challenged key We also assessed whether the Groups balanced, other than our findings in relation assumptions including the size of the disclosures detailing significant legal to the opening position at MedImmune.
therapeutic area market, the products proceedings adequately disclose the We also found no errors inthe year-end projected share of thisand expected pricing potential liabilities of the Group.
Our procedures also Our findings included holding discussions with relevant Whilst the outcome of these litigation matters We have reported an audit difference management personnel and challenging inrespect of the rebate calculation is inherently uncertain in each case, we found managements statements by reviewing that the Group applied balanced judgments, methodology and assumptions at the start analyst commentaries, consensus forecasts of the year at MedImmune, for its principal on a case by case basis, in assessing and retrospective assessment ofthe accuracy whether or not a provision should be product, which led to an opening overof the Groups projections.
We also assessed accrual of liability of $40m.
We found that the assumptions the adequacy of related disclosures in the used and the resulting liability recorded to be adjusted and consequently included in Groups financial statements.
We found that the Group gives extensive disclosure on the potential liability increased the scope and depth of our audit Our findings procedures at MedImmune from that We found the Groups assumptions and in excess of that recognised in the Financial Statements and the significant but originally planned.
the resulting estimates to be balanced.
We found that the disclosures proportionately unquantifiable contingent liability in respect We found the disclosures on revenue of these litigation matters.
describe the inherent degree of subjectivity recognition to be extensive.
in the estimates and the potential impact on Tax provisioning $2,275m Carrying value of intangible assets future periods of revisions to these estimates.
Refer to page 99 Audit Committee Report, $20,981m Litigation and contingent liabilities page 139 accounting policy, page 187 Refer to page 98 Audit Committee Report, provisions of $74m financial disclosures and page 85 financial page 141 accounting policy, page 153 Refer to page 98 Audit Committee Report, risk management financial disclosures and page 84 financial page 141 accounting policy, page 182 risk management The risk financial disclosures and page 84 financial Due to the Group operating in a number of The risk risk management different tax jurisdictions and the complexities The Group has significant intangible The risk of transfer pricing and other international tax assets arising from the acquisition of In the normal course of business, litigation legislation, accruals for tax contingencies products both launched and in development.
and contingent liabilities may arise from require the Directors to make judgments Recoverability of these assets is based on product-specific and general legal and estimates in relation to tax issues forecasting and discounting future cash proceedings, from guarantees, government andexposures.
flows, which are inherently highly judgmental.
investigations or from environmental liabilities For products in development the main risk Our response connected with the Groups current or is achieving successful trial results and In this area our principal audit procedures former sites.
The amounts involved are obtaining required regulatory approvals.
For included: testing the Groups controls potentially material and the application of launched products, the key risk is the ability surrounding tax provisioning and assessment accounting standards to determine the to successfully commercialise the individual of correspondence with the relevant tax amount, if any, to be provided as a liability, product concerned.
authorities and the use of our own local is inherently subjective.
and international tax specialists to analyse Our response Our response and challenge the assumptions used by In this area our principal audit procedures Having made enquires of the Directors to management to determine tax provisions, included testing the Groups controls obtain their view on the status of significant based on our knowledge andexperiences of surrounding intangible asset impairments legal matters, our principal audit procedures the application of the relevant legislation by and evaluating the Groups assumptions included: testing the Groups controls authorities and courts.
We also assessed the used in assessing the recoverability of surrounding litigation and contingent adequacy of the Groups disclosures in intangible assets, in particular, revenue liabilities, assessment of correspondence respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
andcash flow projections, useful economic with the Groups external counsel on all Our findings lives and discount rates.
We also performed significant legal cases and discussions sensitivity analysis over individual intangible We found the Groups estimate of the withexternal counsel where necessary.
amounts to be recognised as tax liabilities asset models, where there was a higher Inaddition we obtained formal confirmations risk of impairment, to assess the level of to be conservative and that the disclosures from the Groups external counsel for all provide a proportionate description of the sensitivity to key assumptions and focus significant litigation, used our own forensic our work in those areas.
For products in current status of uncertain tax positions.
and compliance specialists to assess the development, a key assumption is the Groups compliance logs and reports to probability of obtaining the necessary clinical identify actual and potential non-compliance and regulatory approvals.
Our procedures for with laws and regulations, both those specific products in development included critically AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 131 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC only Postretirement benefits $2,951m Materiality for the Group Financial Statements Refer to page 99 Audit Committee Report, page 139 accounting policy, page 162 profit before tax plus financial disclosures and page 85 financial impairments and contingent consideration revaluations Materiality risk management.
$1,880m $94m Whole financial The risk statements materiality Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups post-retirement defined benefit plans.
Small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension deficit could have a significant effect on the results and financial position of the Group.
Our response Our principal audit procedures included $4.7m Misstatements reported the testing of the Groups controls to the Audit Committee surrounding the post-retirement defined benefit plans valuations and the challenge of key assumptions, being the discount 4.
Our application of materiality and Scoping and coverage rate, inflation rate and mortality life anoverview of the scope of our audit expectancy, which are included in the The materiality for the Group Financial valuation calculations of the Groups Group revenue % Statements as a whole was set at $94m, retirement benefit obligations in countries determined with reference to a benchmark with significant defined benefit pension of Group profit before taxation, normalised plans, with the support of our own actuarial to exclude this years intangible asset Audits for group specialists.
This involved a comparison of reporting purposes 72 impairments and fair value movement on these key assumptions used against our Specified risk-focused contingent consideration as disclosed in own internal benchmarks and externally audit procedures 23 Notes 9 and 18, of which it represents 5.0%.
We obtained and assessed third party assurance reports on controls We report to the Audit Committee any over the valuation of pension assets held corrected or uncorrected identified Components absolute by key custodians and compared asset misstatements exceeding $4.7m 0.25% of profits losses % values to third party confirmations.
normalised Group profit before taxation, in Additionally, we assessed the adequacy addition to other identified misstatements that ofthe Groups disclosures in respect of Audits for group warranted reporting onqualitative grounds.
reporting purposes 74 The Group operates a significant number Specified risk-focused Our findings of trading entities, each of which is audit procedures 16 Overall, we found the key assumptions determined to be a reporting component, used in, and the resulting estimate of, the located in 82 countries around the globe.
valuation of retirement benefit obligations The Operating Segment disclosures in Group total assets % within the Group to be balanced.
The third Note 6 set out the individual significance party assurance reports did not identify of each geographical region.
significant deviations in the operation of We performed audits for group reporting controls over the valuation of assets which Audits for group purposes at 8 components and specified caused us to change the scope or extent reporting purposes 90 risk-focused audit procedures at one of our procedures and we found no errors Specified risk-focused audit procedures 3 standalone component as well as at 36 in our comparison of asset values to components serviced by the Groups shared third party confirmations.
We found the service centres.
The latter 37 components disclosures in respect of post-retirement were not individually financially significant benefits to be proportionate.
enough to require an audit forgroup reporting Overall findings purposes, but were included in the scope of In reaching our audit opinion on the Group our audit in order to provide further coverage Financial Statements we took into account over relevant account balances.
the findings that we describe above and The Group operates four principal shared those for other, lower risk areas.
Overall service centres both in-house and thefindings from across the whole audit outsourced in the UK, Malaysia, Romania are that, although the estimates used in and India, which process a substantial theGroup Financial Statements are mainly proportion of the Groups transactions.
balanced, there is one conservative estimate, Theoutputs from the shared service centres as well as the audit difference identified are included in the financial information of above.
However, compared with materiality the reporting components they service and and considering the qualitative aspects therefore they are not separate reporting ofthe Group Financial Statements as a components.
Each of the service centres whole, our opinion on the Group Financial Statements is unmodified.
132 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Financial Statements issubject to specified risk-focused audit 6.
We have nothing to report in respect Scope and responsibilities procedures, predominantly the testing of ofthe matters on which we are required to As explained more fully in the Directors transaction processing and review controls.
report by exception Responsibilities Statement set out on Additional procedures are performed by Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required page129, the Directors are responsible for component audit teams at certain reporting to report to you if, based on the knowledge the preparation of the Financial Statements components to address the audit risks not we acquired during our audit, we have and for being satisfied that they give a true covered by the work performed over the identified other information in this Annual and fair view.
A description of the scope shared service centres.
These procedures Report that contains a material inconsistency of an audit of financial statements is provided are designed to address the risk of material with either that knowledge or the Financial on the Financial Reporting Councils website misstatement identified through our group Statements, a material misstatement of fact, at www.
or that is otherwise misleading.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to This resulted in the coverage shown in In particular, we are required to report to important explanations and disclaimers theneighbouring charts.
For the remaining you if: regarding our responsibilities, published components, we performed analysis at the we have identified material inconsistencies onour website at www.
com uk Group level to re-examine our assessment between the knowledge we acquired auditscopeukco2014b, which are that there were no significant risks of material during our audit and the Directors incorporated into this report as if set out misstatement within them.
statement that they consider that the infull and should be read to provide an The Group audit team instructed component Annual Report and Financial Statements understanding of the purpose of this report, and shared service centre auditors as to the taken as a whole are fair, balanced the work we have undertaken and the significant areas to be covered, including andunderstandable and provides the basis of our opinions.
the relevant risks detailed above and the information necessary for shareholders to Antony Cates information to be reported back.
The Group assess the Groups performance, business Senior Statutory Auditor audit team approved the component model and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, materiality levels, which ranged from $6m the Audit Committee Report does Statutory Auditor to $90m, having regard to the mix of size notappropriately address matters Chartered Accountants and risk profile of the Group across the communicated by us to the 15 Canada Square components as well as considering the risk AuditCommittee.
London when aggregating misstatements that may Under the Companies Act 2006 we are E14 5GL exceed group materiality.
5 February 2015 required to report to you if, in our opinion: The work on all components in scope of our certain disclosures of Directors work, other than on the parent company, was remuneration specified by law are performed by component and shared service notmade: or centre auditors.
The audit of the Parent we have not received all the information Company and consolidation was performed and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required The Group audit team visited four component toreview: locations, during the year, in the UK, US, France and Russia to discuss and challenge the Directors statement, set out on page key risks and audit strategy.
Video or 138, in relation to going concern: and telephone conference meetings were also the part of the Corporate Governance held with all group reporting component Report on pages 86 to 95 relating to the auditors throughout the audit and the majority Companys compliance with the ten of the other component and shared service provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate centre auditors that were not physically Governance Code specified for ourreview.
At these visits and meetings, the audit We have nothing to report in respect of the approach, findings and observations reported above responsibilities.
to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required 7.
Other matter we have reported by the Group audit team was then performed separately on the Parent Company by the component auditor.
Financial Statements We have reported separately on the 5.
Our opinion on the other matter ParentCompany Financial Statements prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 ofAstraZeneca PLC for the year ended isunmodified 31December 2014 and on the information In our opinion the information given in the in the Directors Remuneration Report that Strategic Report and the Directors Report is described as having been audited.
for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 133
