Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Independent auditors Report To the members of Spire Healthcare Group plc OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED financial statements and to identify any information that is We have audited the financial statements of Spire Healthcare Group apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Group with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance whether the financial statements are free from material with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. statements, would be changed or influenced.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to We then determine a lower level of performance materiality them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a In our opinion: magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the materiality for the Group to be 4.2 million 2013: 3.6 million, which Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 is calculated as 5% 2013: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We adjust and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the loss before tax as reported by the Group to exclude the impact of: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have exceptional items of 54.0 million note 8 to the been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted financial statements : by the European Union and for the Parent Company as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and profit on disposal of hospital properties of 18.5 million note 9 to the financial statements : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the interest on loans from former ultimate parent undertakings and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
management of 54.8 million note 11 to the financial statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR We exclude exceptional items and the profit on disposal of hospital As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement properties with the intention of avoiding inappropriate fluctuations set out on page 92, the directors are responsible for the preparation in our materiality from year to year as a result of non-recurring items of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Similarly interest paid to the former shareholders prior to the Group opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with being admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 23 July 2014 is applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs excluded so that the pre-tax profit reflects the trading performance UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with of the newly restructured Group.
As a result of excluding these items, the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adjusted pre-tax profit from which we have calculated the 5% basis for materiality is 83.3 million.
OUR AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable performance materiality for the Group should be 75% 2013: 75% assurance that the financial statements are free from material of materiality, namely 2.9 million 2013: 2.7 million, which reflects misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an our assessment of the overall control environment and the history of assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to no or very few audit adjustments.
Our approach is designed to have the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness and undetected audit differences does not exceed our materiality of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the of 4.2 million 2013: 3.6 million for the financial statements overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read as a whole.
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 93 Financial Statements Independent auditors Report To the members of Spire Healthcare Group plc continued We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the Combined full and specific scope audit procedures performed across quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014, covered over 99% of other relevant qualitative considerations.
of the Groups revenue, 100% of the Groups operating profit before exceptional items and 99% of the Groups total assets.
The audits of AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT all these components are performed at a materiality level calculated The Group continues to operate solely in the UK and with common by reference to a proportion of the Group performance materiality financial systems, processes and controls covering all of its operations.
appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
The Two trading entities account for 96% of the Groups revenue, components were allocated a performance materiality threshold and both were subject to full scope audits for the year ended ranging between 0.6 million and 2.9 million.
Two other non-trading entities were also included The audit of all of the components within the Group is undertaken within full scope audit procedures, resulting in 96.3% of the Groups by one audit team which is led by the senior statutory auditor.
revenue, 100% of the Groups operating profit before exceptionals Due to the nature of the main risk areas noted below, the audit and 46.5% of the Groups assets being covered through full scope team is supported by experts in taxation, property valuations, audit procedures.
and the evaluation of appropriate discount rates used within Specific scope audit procedures were performed for 26 other entities, value-in-use calculations.
the majority of which comprise the Groups head office and property functions and covered 52.6% of the Groups asset base.
These entities OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT were selected for specific scope audit procedures for which the We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and consequently material misstatement and of the materiality of those locations have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation to the Groups business operations.
of resources and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified and addressed through our audit procedures.
PRINCIPAL RISK AREA AND RATIONALE AUDIT RESPONSE Revenue recognition Consistent with the significant issues as identified by the Audit and We identified the controls over the occurrence of revenue to Risk Committee, we considered that the complexity of the pricing be the most appropriate to test.
The remaining audit procedures structure, specifically the high volume of different procedures that over revenue measurement and validation utilised a substantive are undertaken across the patient revenue streams creates a risk that approach.
To address the risks of mis-statement in relation systematic errors or manipulation of pricing could lead to an error in to the revenue recognition we performed a number of reported revenues 856.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 procedures, including: 2013: 764.5 million.
transactional level pricing validation was performed on a This risk is considered to be higher in recording PMI and NHS related sample of invoices across the Group and agreed back to source revenues where the extent of pricing variations is most significant pricing documentation and evidence of input from clinical and requires clinical input as appropriate.
review as applicable: The Groups accounting policies themselves in respect of revenue post year end credit note testing to validate that pre year recognition are not considered to present any significant risk of end revenue was not inappropriately recognised: misstatement because revenue is recognised only on completion analysis of credit notes raised during through the period to of medical procedures.
consider if prior history indicated trends of errors in invoicing: consideration and support of any payor pricing disputes, or likelihood thereof, during the period to gain evidence that there was no material inappropriate billing during the period under review: and analytical review at a hospital level to consider unusual trends that could indicate material misstatement to revenue.
94 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information PRINCIPAL RISK AREA AND RATIONALE AUDIT RESPONSE Goodwill carrying amounts We focused on this area due to i the significance of the We examined the Groups forecast cash flows which underpin carrying value of the goodwill being assessed 519.1 million as managements impairment review.
We tested the basis of at 31 December 2014 : and ii as a result of the level of subjectivity preparing those forecasts taking into account the accuracy associated with the forecast assumptions which underpin of previous forecasts and the historic evidence supporting managements assessment of value-in-use, including the degree underlying assumptions.
of subjectivity of cash flow forecasts, associated growth rates Future cash flow assumptions were challenged through comparison and the appropriateness of the discount rate applied.
of current trading performance, seeking corroborative evidence and enquiry with management in respect of key growth and trading assumptions.
The reasonableness of other key assumptions such as the discount rate and long term growth rate were tested with appropriate input from EY valuation experts and applying an independent assessment on general market indicators to conclude on the appropriateness of these assumptions.
We also tested the mathematical integrity of managements model and carried out audit procedures on managements sensitivity calculations.
We also tested managements assessment on whether any reasonably possible change in these key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill and therefore require disclosure under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Appropriate recognition of deferred tax balances We consider that the Groups structure, including the changes arising We considered the status of any recent and current tax audits and during the year as a result of the Group reconstruction prior to IPO, enquiries and reperformed managements true up to the corporation results in there being a higher inherent risk associated with the tax calculations from the tax returns submitted for the prior year.
calculation of current and deferred tax balances and the resulting tax We understood and verified managements assumptions supporting position adopted by the Group.
This is consistent with both the the calculation of the deferred tax liability arising in respect of significant issue as identified by the Audit and Risk Committee and the property portfolio.
Through our enquiries with management, the significant judgement as set out in note 4 to these financial we assessed the appropriateness of how the carrying amounts statements.
are assumed to be recovered with regard to Groups business We consider that there is a level of estimation in assessing the tax plans and known developments.
base of the property portfolio for the purposes of calculating the In respect of both current and deferred tax, we tested associated deferred tax liability 91.7 million as at 31 December managements estimates of appropriate levels of allowed tax 2014.
Such calculations are dependent on managements assumption deductions where the final tax treatment is yet to be agreed by on use or possible disposal of properties in the future.
This included examining any available The scope for recognition of the Groups deferred tax assets correspondence with tax authorities or tax advisors at the time 43.6 million as at 31 December 2014 in accordance with of our audit procedures to corroborate the treatment adopted IAS 12, particularly in respect of available losses is also a by management.
We considered the appropriateness of the taxation disclosures made in the financial statements.
Treatment of costs directly attributable to the Groups IPO We considered the judgement management has exercised in We have audited costs that are reported by management to be appropriately presenting significant costs incurred in respect of the IPO.
related to the IPO and in particular tested managements allocation of such costs that are presented as directly attributable to the Costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of new share share issuance 11.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 capital may be allocated directly against share premium.
This presents or new debt 5.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2014. the risk that management may allocate costs to equity that are not directly attributable to the IPO, resulting a misstatement of profit.
In We also considered the appropriateness of presenting the other IPO addition costs directly incurred in raising new debt are required to be related costs as exceptional costs 46.1 million for the year ended presented set off against the associated loan balance.
This increases 31 December 2014 and concluded that such presentation was in the risk that management may present costs in the balance sheet accordance with the Groups accounting policy and the relevant that are not directly related to raising new debt.
We also considered the classification of employee bonus charges and other expenses incurred as a consequence of the IPO process as exceptional.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 95 Financial Statements Independent auditors Report To the members of Spire Healthcare Group plc continued OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, ACT 2006 in our opinion: In our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act from branches not visited by us: or 2006: and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Report for the financial year for which the Group financial with the accounting records and returns: or statements are prepared is consistent with the Group certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law financial statements.
are not made: or MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION we have not received all the information and explanations Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, we require for our audit.
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited the statement of directors responsibilities, set out on page 92, financial statements: or in relation to going concern: and apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of performing our audit: or the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
David Hales In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Senior Statutory Auditor any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual London Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 23 March 2015 Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Spire Healthcare Group plc web site is the responsibility communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these should have been disclosed.
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
96 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014
