FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC We have audited the financial statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 52 For the Group audit, we established materiality for the consolidated financial week period ended 27 April 2014 which comprise the consolidated balance sheet, the statements as a whole to be 11.2m, which is 3.5% of adjusted Earnings before consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA.
We use adjusted EBITDA the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash because, in our view, this is the metric against which the financial performance of the flows and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been Group is measured both internally and externally.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting For the financial information of the individual subsidiary undertakings, we set our Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
materiality based on a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with scales of each of the businesses.
We determined the threshold at which we will Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 560,000.
In addition so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent reporting on qualitative grounds.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters that are, in our for the opinions we have formed.
judgement, likely to be most important to users understanding of our audit.
Our RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 41 of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for individual transactions, account balances or disclosures.
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under ISAs UK & Ireland, there is a presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to because of the pressure and incentives management may feel to achieve planned comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We therefore identified revenue recognition as a significant risk SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS requiring special audit consideration.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, testing manual journals posted Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
to revenue for indication of fraudulent transactions, assessing the retail control AUDITOR COMMENTARY environment surrounding revenue recognition and its completeness and performing An overview of the scope of our audit substantive procedures in respect of non-retail sales to ensure the related revenue was Our audit scope included a full audit of the consolidated financial statements of Sports accounted for correctly and in the correct period.
We evaluated controls over key financial systems identified The Groups accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition is included in note 1. as part of our risk assessment.
This included a review of the general IT controls, the accounts production process and the controls addressing critical accounting matters CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES identified in our risk assessment.
We undertook substantive testing on significant The carrying value of inventories is stated net of provisions for obsolete or slow moving transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various stock.
Judgement is applied by management in assessing the amount of provision factors such as our overall assessment of the control environment, the effectiveness of required to record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
controls over individual systems and the management of specific risks.
Our audit work included, but was not limited to, verifying the models used for As set out on page 53 the Group has three operating segments: Sports Retail, Premium mathematical accuracy, considering the appropriateness and consistency of the Lifestyle and Brands.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the underlying assumptions within the model and performing a review of inventory sold reporting units comprising the operating businesses within these segments.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work The Groups accounting policy on inventories and details of the judgements applied by that needed to be performed on the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement the directors in establishing the provision is included in note 1. team, or component auditors operating under our instruction.
Where the work was ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed As further disclosed in note 29 the Group made two significant acquisitions during to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether the year.
The accounting for these acquisitions required management, in accordance sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on with IFRS3: Business Combinations, to make a number of judgements: including the Group financial statements as a whole.
the identification and valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets, fair The reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified two reporting units that, value adjustments to assets and liabilities acquired and the accounting for option in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size agreements in relation to minority interests.
We therefore identified the related or risk characteristics, providing 65% coverage of the Groups revenues and 89% of acquisition accounting as a significant risk.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to understanding the terms of Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at the respective acquisitions and option agreements and evaluating whether the a further 8 reporting units due to their size providing a further 25% coverage of the Group has obtained control in each case, agreeing the fair value of the assets and Groups revenues and 2% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, with the remaining reporting liabilities acquired to supporting documentation and evaluating the appropriateness units subject to analytical procedures.
of judgements applied by the Directors, considering the existence of any separately identifiable intangibles assets, ensuring the costs of the respective acquisitions have OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY been expensed to the Income Statement and reviewing the respective disclosures We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating within the financial statements.
the effect of any identified misstatements and in forming our opinion.
For the purpose of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement Disclosure of the acquisitions in the period, analysis of the fair values of assets, we define materiality as the magnitude of a misstatement or an omission from the including separately identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities acquired and financial statements or related disclosures that would make it probable that the judgements formed in respect of the option agreements to acquire minority interests is judgement of a reasonable person relying on the information would have been changed set out in note 29. or influenced by the misstatement or omission.
The Groups accounting policy in respect of accounting for acquisitions is included in note 1.
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 43 INTANGIBLES IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION As more fully explained in note 15, the Directors are required to make an annual We have nothing to report in respect of the following: assessment to determine whether the value of goodwill of 153.5m and brands of Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 73.3m is impaired.
The process for measuring and recognising impairment under IAS information in the Annual Report is: 36 is complex and highly judgemental.
We therefore identified impairment reviews as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an evaluation of the methodology knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or and assumptions used by the Directors.
In particular those key assumptions relating is otherwise misleading.
to the cash flow projections, the appropriateness of the discount rates and perpetuity rates and we also focused on the adequacy of the disclosures on the sensitivity of the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any key assumptions used in the impairment assessment and the related disclosures.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable The Groups accounting policy on impairment is included in the Groups principal and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that were accounting policies and details of the judgements and estimates made by the Directors communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF FINANCIAL CONTROL Under ISAs UK & Ireland, for all of our audits we are required to consider the risk of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or management override of financial controls.
Due to the unpredictable nature of this risk we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: we are required to assess it as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, specific procedures relating to this risk that are required by ISA 240 The Auditors Responsibilities relating to Fraud Under the Listing Rules are required to review: in an Audit of Financial Statements.
This included tests of manual journal entries, the Directors Statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern: and the evaluation of judgements and assumptions in the Directors estimates and tests the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys of significant transactions outside the normal course of business.
This included a compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified detailed review of related party transactions.
In particular, our work on judgements applied by the Directors when establishing the OTHER MATTER inventory provision, the acquisitions made in the year and the intangible impairment We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Sports assessment addressed key aspects of ISA 240.
Direct International plc for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2014, and on the OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: audited.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 April 2014 and Philip Westerman of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: Senior Statutory Auditor have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Union: and Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants have been prepared in accordance with the requirement of the Companies Act 2006 London and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
17 July 2014 OTHER REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Reports for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 27 to 32 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
