Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of SSE plc O Op pi in ni io on ns a s an nd c d co on ncl clu us si io on ns a s ar ri is si in ng fr g fro om o m ou ur a r au ud di it t 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSE plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 98 to 176.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were asfollows: The risk Our response Accounting for estimated revenue 1.1bn included within total external revenue in Retail of 8.7bn Refer to page 71 Audit Committee statement, page 106 Note 3 i, page 109 Note 4a and page 167 A1 Accounting Policy.
Certain of the Groups energy sales revenues included in the 2014 For estimated revenues our audit procedures included, among others, financial statements are based on estimates of the values of electricity the following: we performed various analytical procedures using actual and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter data to allow us to set our own expectations as to the likely level of reading and the year end estimated revenues.
estimated revenue and compared this with the groups estimate obtaining explanations for significant differences.
We also challenged The method of estimating such revenues is complex and judgemental the groups assumptions used in determining the level of estimated and requires estimates and assumptions being made to: revenue at 31 March 2014.
1 estimate the volumes of energy consumed by customers.
Volume The group calculated estimated revenue based on the closing unbilled 2 assess the valuation to be ascribed to that revenue given the range volume reflected within the financial statements in the prior year, with of tariffs and location of the groups customers location being one adjustments made for gas or electricity procured for customers as of the features in customer tariffs.
identified from the industry wide settlements system, gas or electricity billed to customers as identified from the groups billing system and The risk of misstatement is that the accounting for the Groups various other adjustments.
The group then applies a price per unit estimated revenues does not appropriately reflect the underlying which is dependent on a number of factors including location of actual consumption or pricing of revenues.
customers and type of billing arrangement to arrive at the total estimated value of energy sales between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
We agreed the core volume data underlying the calculation of the estimated volumes into settlement, sales and other systems having performed sample testing of the key controls on these systems.
We compared the estimated volume determined by the Group with various benchmarks that the Group had also calculated using internal and external information and considered variances from that benchmark.
Price We also challenged the assumptions of price per unit by comparing the price applied with historical and current trends and data.
Further, we assessed the overall consistency of the assumptions and of the inputs to the calculation of estimated value of revenue.
Recovery of Retail receivables 0.8bn Refer to page 71 Audit Committee statement, page 107 Note 3 ii, page 153 Note 33 i and page 173 A1 Accounting Policy.
The groups billed energy revenues result in significant trade receivables For trade receivables, our audit procedures included, among others, with customers and, given the challenging economic climate, the risk of testing the groups controls over the receivables collection processes: customer insolvency has increased in recent years.
The risk of considering the receipt of cash after the year-end: and testing the misstatement is that the groups trade receivables in relation to energy adequacy of the groups provisions against trade receivables by customers are not adequately provided for in the financial statements.
assessing the relevant assumptions, taking account of our own knowledge of recent collections experience in this industry and also historical data from the groups previous collections experience.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this area.
177 Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of SSE plc O Op pi in ni io on ns a s an nd c d co on ncl clu us si io on ns a s ar ri is si in ng fr g fro om o m ou ur a r au ud di it t c con ont tiinue nued d The risk Our response Carrying value of certain non-current assets which aggregate to 11.2bn Refer to page 106 Note 3 iii and pages 122 to 127 Notes 13 and 14 and pages 169 to 171 A1 Accounting Policy.
The recovery of certain non-current assets, including power generation In this area our audit procedures included, among others, the following: assets, gas reserves both included within property plant and equipment, we challenged the groups calculation of value in use or fair value goodwill and development assets both included within intangible assets, less costs to sell, as appropriate and the value of impairment charged depends on achieving sufficiently profitable business in the future.
to income during the year.
This included seeking support for key assumptions such as earnings and cashflow forecasts included in the As these non-current assets mainly relate to the production of impairment review for each CGU or asset tested on a stand-alone electricity, the assessment of future profitability is dependent on many basis, and the terminal value and discount rate assumptions used by factors.
Those factors include the operating efficiency and the input management.
We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, costs of running the relevant plant relative to others and the expected to externally derived data for example by comparing the discount rate electricity prices, all of which are impacted by political and economic to those applied by companies operating in a similar environment to the factors in the UK and globally.
In addition there have been significant group, we compared earnings forecasts with budgets used within the impairments in prior years and the current year largely in relation to the business for other purposes and we applied sensitivities in assessing groups power generation assets principally in the UK Generation cash whether the Groups assessment was reasonable.
We also considered generating unit CGU.
the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this area.
Assets are reviewed, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a wider cash-generating unit, for impairment using either a value in use or fair value less costs to sell model, as further detailed in Note 13.
The outcome of these impairment reviews could vary significantly if different assumptions were applied in the model.
Therefore this is considered a key audit risk.
Accounting for legal and other contractual claims Refer to page 71 Audit Committee statement, page 107 Note 3 iv and page 173 A1 Accounting Policy.
The groups operations expose it to the risk of litigation and contractual In this area our audit procedures included, among others, the following: claims particularly in relation to significant capital projects from third we considered claims raised against the group by third parties, parties.
Due to the range of potential outcomes and the considerable inspected relevant legal advice received by the group in connection uncertainty around the resolution of various claims, the determination with such claims and obtained formal confirmation from the groups of the amount, if any, to be recorded in the financial statements as a solicitors on the status of any legal claims with which the group is provision is inherently subjective and therefore this is considered a dealing.
We also considered the groups disclosures relating to key audit risk.
provisions and or contingent liabilities for legal and other contractualclaims.
Accounting for the groups pension obligations the Group reflects a net defined pension liability of 0.6bn Refer to page 71 Audit Committee statement, page 106 Note 3 v, pages 140-144 Note 31 and page 172 A1 Accounting Policy.
The valuation of the groups pension obligations requires significant In this area our audit procedures included, among others, the following: judgment and estimation to be applied across numerous assumptions.
we considered the groups valuation methodology to assess its compliance with accounting standards and alignment to market practices, The matter is considered to be a significant risk as small changes in the we challenged the key assumptions supporting the Groups retirement assumptions can have a material financial impact on the results and benefit obligations valuation, with input from our own actuarial financial position of the Group given the size of the deficit.
This included a comparison of the discount and inflation rates used against benchmarks developed by our internal actuaries and similar assumptions used by other groups with defined benefit pension schemes and consideration of other assumptions such as mortality and life expectancy.
In addition, our procedures included, among others, obtaining confirmation of the pension schemes assets as at 31 March 2014 by agreeing the asset values to investment statements and confirmations provided by the scheme actuaries.
Further, we considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in the area of pension obligations.
Financial Statements Financial Statements O Op pi in ni io on ns a s an nd c d co on ncl clu us si io on ns a s ar ri is si in ng fr g fro om o m ou ur a r au ud di it t c con ont tiinue nued d 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 104 million in aggregate.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
Materiality represents 17.6% of group profit before tax and 7.1% of groupprofit before tax adjusted for exceptional items and certain remeasurements movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 5 million for income statement items in addition to other audit misstatements we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by KPMG auditors at the key reporting components in the UK and Ireland.
These audits covered 99% of Group revenue, 98% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items and certain remeasurements movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement: and 90% of Group total assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 10 million to 25 million due to the lower profits in these components and the need to consider statutory materiality for these components.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the KPMG auditors of those components based in Ireland.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
Telephone meetings were held during the year with the KPMG audit team in Ireland in relation to these components.
The remaining UK components were covered by three audit teams under direct or indirect control of the UK audit partner.
Statutory audits are performed as required for the groups statutory entities in the UK and Ireland but these are completed after the date of this report.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 93, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 58 to 73 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
179 Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of SSE plc O Op pi in ni io on ns a s an nd c d co on ncl clu us si io on ns a s ar ri is si in ng fr g fro om o m ou ur a r au ud di it t c con ont tiinue nued d Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com , which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Luke Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ 180 SSE plc Annual Report 2014
