51 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SSP Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSP Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2014 set out on pages 54 to 94.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2014 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: a Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 634.5m Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 28, note 2 on page 64 and note 10 on pages 71 to 72 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The risk The Group carries significant goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets resulting from acquisitions of businesses in a wide range of geographical locations.
The Groups business is influenced by general economic trends whereby levels of discretionary travel and consumer spending may be adversely affected by global and local economic and political uncertainties.
There is a risk of irrecoverability of the Groups significant goodwill balance in geographies where such conditions may negatively affect profitability.
Management tests the Groups goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows which forms the basis of the assessment of recoverability, as well as the subjectivity of key assumptions in the impairment models, this is one of the key judgmental areas on which our audit is focused.
Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating through examination of trading performance, consideration of economic and market data, and queries of management, whether indicators of impairment such as trading shortfalls or significant changes in business environment have been identified, and assessing whether these have been appropriately evaluated in the Groups valuation models.
We assessed the Groups budget and forecast procedures to determine the rigour with which they are prepared and have also evaluated the historical accuracy of management forecasts.
We challenged the assumptions for key inputs used by management such as projected market growth, future capital expenditure levels, revenue growth rates, cost projections and inflation, and compared them to externally derived data where relevant.
Our valuation specialist assisted us in assessing the methodology used by management to determine if it was appropriate and by assessing the assumptions used to determine discount rates used.
We applied sensitivities to key assumptions to assess the impact on the recoverability of the assets.
We compared the results of the discounted cash flows against the Groups market capitalisation to determine if there were any significant differences that required further examination.
We also considered whether the Groups disclosures in respect of the impairment exercise properly reflects the key risks and sensitivities inherent in those calculations and have met the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
b Presentation of underlying profit and classification of exceptional items and other adjustments Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 28, note 2 on page 64 and notes 5 and 7 on pages 67 and 68 respectively notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The risk The Group presents alternative income statement measures to operating profit and loss for the period within the consolidated income statement and throughout the annual report.
The Directors believe that the separate identification of exceptional items and other adjustments, and the resultant presentation of alternative income statement measures, provides clear and useful information on the Groups underlying trading performance.
The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustment requires judgement on its nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on the Groups underlying trading performance.
Therefore, this is one of the key judgment areas on which our audit is concentrated.
Exceptional items and other adjustments in the current and preceding year comprised exceptional redundancy and restructuring costs, exceptional goodwill write-off, costs related to acquisitions and disposals of businesses, amortisation of acquisitionrelated intangible assets, costs of refinancing activities, and costs related to the listing of the Group earlier this year.
52 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SSP Group plc only continued Our response Our audit procedures include, amongst others, assessing and challenging the judgments made by Directors of the Group regarding their determination of exceptional items and other adjustments.
We evaluated the presentation and completeness of material or unusual transactions for appropriate classification within the financial statements by assessing whether the approach taken to identifying exceptional items and other adjustments was even handed between gains and losses: assessing whether the same category of material items recur each year: ensuring gains and losses are not netted off in arriving at the amount disclosed unless otherwise permitted: assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional items and other Adjustments are explained: and by agreeing amounts incurred in the year to underlying documentation and supporting information.
We assessed whether these items fulfil the criteria to require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
We also assessed whether in judging what to include in additional items and underlying profit, the Directors took appropriate regard to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the reporting of exceptional items.
We also considered whether these items were recognised in accordance with the Groups stated accounting policy on page 63.
Where provisions were made in the prior period for exceptional items, we assessed whether the utilisation of the provision in the current period was appropriate and that any release of the provision is classified as an exceptional item where appropriate.
We assessed whether the separate disclosure and related commentary of underlying profit throughout the annual report and accounts provided clarity on trading performance.
We also assessed whether the adopted IFRS and underlying financial information are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described, whether it is consistently applied: and whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 10.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 0.5% of Group revenue as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified through our audit with a value in excess of 1.0m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors in the following countries: UK, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, France, Germany, Spain and the USA.
Reviews for Group reporting purposes were performed by component teams in Cyprus and Egypt.
Together, these audits cover 89% of Group revenue and 79% of Group total assets.
Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations, which covered the significant audit areas which included the relevant risks of material misstatements detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Calls were held with all audit teams.
The Group audit team visited the following locations during the year: UK, Denmark, France, Germany, Spain and the USA.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to local materiality levels, set by, or agreed with the Group audit team, which ranged from 0.7m to 8.0m.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: The information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 20 to 49 of the annual report and accounts with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
53 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee report on pages 26 to 30 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going concern: and The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 22 to 25 of the annual report and accounts relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 26 November 2014
