Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Stagecoach Group plc, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2014: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 8.3m.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax of 166.7m prior to exceptional items, being the re-imbursement of rail bid costs, gains and losses on the disposal of businesses, acquisition expenses and charges related to the Twin America litigation which total 8.7m.
We based our materiality on this adjusted profit figure as an appropriate measure of underlying business performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 415,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of the audit The Group is structured along four business lines being UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, UK Rail and North America.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of these businesses by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms or other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Through a combination of specific audit procedures over North American operations, targeted at individually material balances and or identified risks, and an audit of the complete financial information for the rest of the Groups significant operating business lines, our Group audit work accounted for 86% of Group profit before tax prior to exceptional items, 85% of Revenue and 81% of Total Assets.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, including over the consolidation process, exceptional items, pensions, taxation, financial instruments, share based payments and presentation of the Group financial statements gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the consolidated financial statements is set out in section 6 of the Annual Report.
SC100764 continued How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus specific to Stagecoach Group We obtained and read the independent actuarys report commissioned by management which Pension liabilities reported on the assumptions and methodology used to calculate the pension liabilities and the We focused on this area because of the significance of compliance of these with the relevant accounting standard.
pension liabilities to the overall financial statements.
Calculation of the liabilities requires judgement by We considered and challenged the reasonableness of the key actuarial assumptions including management in arriving at appropriate actuarial the discount rate, mortality assumptions and inflation rate and the judgements taken by assumptions.
Relatively small movements in assumptions management in applying these assumptions in calculating the pension liabilities.
applied can result in a material impact to the financial Our work included comparing these key actuarial assumptions to our independently calculated statements.
expectation and a benchmark range of companies operating in the same sector as the Group as Refer also to notes 6 and 25 to the consolidated financial well as listed and other companies more generally.
We assessed whether the methods used by statements.
management to determine key assumptions and overall methodologies were consistently applied and evaluated the rationale for any changes in approach, including the impact of revisions to relevant accounting standards.
We tested pension scheme membership information as this is a key input used in the overall pension liability calculations.
UK Bus and North America insurance provisions We evaluated whether consistent methodology had been applied year on year in determining the level of provisioning.
We focused on this area because the balance is material to the overall financial statements and is inherently We compared the level of provisions against past experience of claims and actual settlements.
Management estimate provisions using the We obtained, read and critically assessed the results of independent actuarial procedures and best available information at a given point in time based reports that were used to support provisions.
on outcomes that are uncertain.
We also tested on a sample basis a number of individual claims and settlement provisions for Refer also to note 24 to the consolidated financial appropriateness with reference to advice to management from third parties and recent statements.
Tax provisioning Our audit procedures considered both the potential exposure and the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise.
We focused on this area because of the judgemental We requested and read the latest correspondence between the Group and relevant tax nature of the balances and the inherent complexity of authorities.
We discussed the potential tax exposure with senior Group management and the interpreting and implementing taxation rules.
basis of their provisions with the Groups in-house tax specialists.
Refer also to notes 7 and 23 to the consolidated financial We also obtained and evaluated third party advice obtained by management.
We utilised our experience of similar circumstances to independently challenge and assess the evidence described above.
Twin America We obtained an understanding of the latest developments in the litigation and managements judgements thereon relating to provisions and their assessment of the carrying value of Twin Due to the uncertainty created by the Twin America America in the consolidated financial statements.
litigation we focused on managements judgements in We evaluated whether the consolidated financial statements included appropriate disclosures relation to determining the provisions to be recorded in and provisions.
We also assessed the pattern of legal costs incurred to date when evaluating the consolidated financial statements and the impact on the appropriateness of the legal costs provision held and considered the advice obtained by the carrying value of the Groups investment in Twin management from third party legal advisors.
We assessed the accounting implications of the litigation on the Groups investment in Twin Refer also to notes 13 and 31 to the consolidated financial America.
This involved us considering managements impairment review of the carrying value statements of Twin America and challenging key assumptions used in the impairment review where changes, particularly in relation to assumed future revenue assumptions, could result in an impairment loss.
We also enquired about recent trading results to evaluate managements trading and cash flow assumptions used in their impairment review.
Area of focus based on risks required by How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus ISAs UK & Ireland Fraud in revenue recognition We focused our audit work in this area on managements calculations of accrued and deferred income, especially those involving manual processes or estimation such as contractual revenue, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in concessionary travel and advance ticket sales, which may be more susceptible to error and fraud.
revenue recognition because of the pressure management Our work involved recalculating these amounts with reference to underlying contractual may feel to achieve the planned results.
documentation and assessing the reasonableness of accrued and deferred income with respect to actual settlement history of prior period balances.
We also used computer aided auditing techniques CAATs to test manual journal entries and to also perform testing of revenue for megabus USA, since these auditing techniques assist us in focusing on non-standard transactions.
Risk of management override of internal controls We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We compared the actual reported profit of disaggregated business units against budget and considered those where there may have been a heightened risk of manipulation to achieve results.
We tested key balance sheet reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions and we reviewed internal audit reports and discussed controls with the Groups internal auditors.
page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 108244 STC Back PRINT 108244 STC Back V12 03 07 2014 16:05 Page 61 Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out in section 4.12 of the Annual Report, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance report in sections 5.13 and 5.14 of the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and provided in section 4.11 about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance report relating to the parent companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In section 4.6 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
1, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Responsibility Statement set out in section 10 of the Annual Report, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 25 June 2014 Stagecoach Group plc | page 61
