Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SuperGroup Plc.
Report on the Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion: The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 26 April 2014 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Companys cash flows for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by SuperGroup Plc, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 26 April 2014: the Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 80 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SuperGroup Plc continued.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 3.0 million.
In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to 5% of profit before income tax, exceptional items and nonunderlying items, because in our view, this is the most relevant measure of recurring performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured into Retail, Wholesale and Central Cost segments.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 20 reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses within these segments and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we identified three reporting units: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited and the Company, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These reporting units were audited by the group engagement team.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of three non-significant reporting units located in the UK such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Group financial statements.
An audit of the financial information of three further reporting units was conducted by the PwC network firm in Belgium at our request.
The audits of these nine reporting units, together with our involvement in the work of PwC Belgium and additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the group level, including consolidation and impairment testing, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This resulted in audit coverage of 98% of group preexceptional profit before tax.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 51 to 57.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 81 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Contract terminations and For each transaction, we obtained and read the legal contracts, and understood business combinations the business rationale for the transaction to evaluate managements assessment of whether it met the definition of a business combination or a contract During the year, the group have termination.
continued with their strategy of reacquiring their brand rights to certain For contract terminations we agreed the costs incurred to legal documentation territories.
For background of the and bank statements and considered if they met the definition of exceptional transactions entered into during the costs in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
year, refer to notes 13 and 33 to the For the business combinations we: financial statements.
understood each element of the transaction and whether it related to an We focussed on this area as identifiable asset or liability, or whether it was an item that should be expensed management are required to exercise in the statement of comprehensive income, such as professional fees, deferred judgement in determining whether consideration linked to continued employment or losses on re-acquired rights: the criteria had been met for a considered the classification of costs as exceptional or underlying: business combination or whether the transactions were a contract challenged assumptions formed around the fair value of consideration payable, termination and appropriately including deferred cash payments and reassignment of debt: expensed and classified.
obtained and evaluated the valuation of intangible assets, and performed Where transactions were a business procedures to obtain evidence of the value allocated to reacquired rights with combination, we focussed on the reference to sales forecasts and amortisation periods: judgements necessary in determining evaluated the fair value ascribed to inventory with reference to current selling the valuation of assets and liabilities prices and challenged judgements formed around costs to sell with reference to acquired and the resulting goodwill, actual costs: and and the presentation and disclosure understood the taxation implications of the acquisition in Germany and challenged of the transactions in the financial the recognition of deferred tax liabilities arising on the transaction.
Having obtained audit evidence over the valuation of assets and liabilities acquired, we re-performed managements calculation of the resulting goodwill.
We also performed procedures to determine that disclosure of each transaction in the financial statements is appropriate and complies with the relevant accounting standards.
Deferred tax assets We updated our understanding of the Group reorganisation which occurred in 2010.
There are significant deferred tax assets in the Group balance We obtained and read correspondence with HMRC, including written notes of sheet relating to goodwill in certain oral conversations, and the financial statements disclosures in order to update our assessment of the facts and circumstances that underpin the judgements made subsidiaries which arose on a Group by management with respect to the valuation and completeness of deferred tax reorganisation in 2010. assets.
We focussed on the valuation and We also assessed Board approved forecasts with respect to considering the completeness of these deferred tax availability of future taxable profits against which deferred tax assets can be assets, due to uncertainty over their utilised.
recoverability and ongoing HMRC enquiry.
Refer to note 2 to the financial statements.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 82 SuperGroup.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We assessed the design and operating effectiveness of controls over revenue systems and tested key revenue and cash reconciliations as at 26 April 2014 and ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is tested material manual journals.
a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of the pressure management Data analysis techniques were used for internet and UK and Irish store revenue may feel to achieve the planned streams to reconcile to cash and identify non-standard revenue transactions.
We focused on whether We performed additional audit procedures over other revenue streams by verifying transactions had occurred that entitled to cash receipts and goods despatch documentation.
Risk of management override of We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the internal controls arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested journal entries.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 83 Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 78 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 43 to 54 as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 84 SuperGroup.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Andrew Lyon BSc FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 9 July 2014 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the SuperGroup Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 85 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 86 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87 Financial Statements.
Group and Company 88 93 Financial Statements Notes to the Group and Company 94 134 Shareholder Information 135 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
