Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Synergy Health plc only Identication of items as non-recurring 3,254,000 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, page 82 accounting policy 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied and page 88 financial disclosures.
We have audited the financial statements of Synergy Health plc for the year ended 30 March 2014 set out on pages 77 to 123.
In our opinion: The risk The Group Income Statement includes a column that highlights items that are considered to be non-recurring in nature.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the These items are disclosed separately to enable the presentation of an Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 March 2014 and of underlying profit profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles the Groups profit for the year then ended: and non-recurring items for the year.
Underlying profit is a key The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in performance indicator for the Group.
The assessment as to whether accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as income or expense should be identied as non-recurring is a adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : subjective and judgemental area, and there is a risk that expenses that are not non-recurring are identied as such and income that The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in is non-recurring is omitted.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the critically assessing the nature of the items presented as nonrequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group recurring and challenging managements rationale for identifying the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
income or expense to be included in these items.
In particular for the 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement two most significant areas of expenditure we did the following: In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements Acquisition related costs: we agreed the costs charged back to the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our third party documentation being invoices, proposals or letters of audit were as follows: engagement.
We confirmed that the costs are directly attributable Impairment of assets in the Netherlands linen services business and Chinese to an acquisition or were incurred pursuing an acquisition target sterilisation business.
by comparing the project information in these invoices, proposals Refer to page 52 Audit Committee report, page 84 accounting policy and letters of engagement to the Groups acquisition and and page 92 financial disclosures.
acquisition target projects in the year.
The risk The Group has significant property, plant and equipment Restructuring costs: we assessed the expenses with reference to and intangible assets.
The healthcare linen services business in the historical spend in previous years to confirm the expenses were Netherlands continues to face challenging economic and market part of discrete, identiable projects.
We corroborated that the conditions while organic growth in the early-stage Chinese outlay met the Groups denition of a non-recurring expense sterilisation business has been slower than anticipated.
There is a by conrming it represented the physical closure of facilities, risk that the book value of the assets in these businesses exceeds redundancy costs for employees working at these facilities or the their recoverable amount as dened in accounting standards and write down of relevant assets.
We also inspected documentation, should therefore be written down in value impaired.
Due to the such as communication with employees, to confirm that inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future restructuring provisions at the year end are in relation to cash ows, which are the basis of the recoverable amount, this is committed and specic plans.
In assessing the amount one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
recognised as a restructuring expense we considered the number Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, of employees affected and the minimum amounts payable under testing of the Groups budgeting process upon which the forecasts local laws and regulations.
We held discussions with divisional management We have undertaken a detailed analysis of the income statement of responsible for creation of these budgets to understand their view the Group to assess the completeness of the classication of of the key inputs and sensitivities.
We critically assessed the transactions as non-recurring in nature.
reasonableness of divisional managements assumptions in the 2014 15 budget by evaluating the historical accuracy of forecasts in We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about nonthe past two years and comparing key inputs such as sales growth recurring items reected our own understanding of these costs.
and operating margins to external data sources such as independent 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope market reports, competitor annual reports and OECD country GDP of our audit and ination forecasts.
We utilised our own valuation specialist to The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at assist us in evaluating the Groups assumptions made in deriving the 2.5 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark discount rate for each business.
We also applied sensitivities to the of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 5.8% which we key inputs, particularly growth rates, operating margins and the consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the discount rate as we considered these to be the most sensitive to Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
variation, and sought to understand and assess the level of available headroom as a consequence of reasonable changes to these key We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected inputs.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the and uncorrected misstatements we identied through our audit outcome of their impairment assessment reected our own analysis.
with a value in excess of 125,000 in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in auditors at the reporting components in the following countries: USA, our opinion: The Netherlands, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Thailand, France and Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Switzerland and by the Group audit team in the UK.
Group reporting or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from procedures covered 93% of total Group revenue, 87% of Group profit branches not visited by us: or before taxation, and 92% of total Group assets.
The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement components of the Company were all performed to the component with the accounting records and returns: or materiality level set by the Group audit team.
The component materiality applied to all was 1,500,000.
Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be covered We have not received all the information and explanations we require by these audits which included the relevant risks of material for our audit: or misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited Company.
the component auditors of the following locations: The Netherlands and USA.
In addition we held telephone meetings with the component Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: auditors of the following locations: France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, The Directors statement, set out on page 73, in relation to going Thailand, France and Switzerland to discuss matters arising from the concern: and component reporting following completion of the audit eldwork.
The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 40-50 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 is unmodied 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
In our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Scope of report and responsibilities 2006: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is is consistent with the financial statements: and provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk Information given in the corporate governance statement set out on auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the Companys page 49 with respect to internal control and risk management members as a body and is subject to important explanations and systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have are required to report by exception undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other Tim Widdas Senior Statutory Auditor information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material Chartered Accountants misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
St Nicholas House Park Row In particular, we are required to report to you if: Nottingham We have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge NG1 6FQ we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they 4 June 2014 consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
76 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
