Group financial statements Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 51 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Synthomer plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Synthomer plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Analysis of Net Borrowings as at 31 December 2014: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 3.8 million which represents 4.5% of underlying profit before tax.
Audit scope We conducted audit work over the complete financial information of the operating companies in Germany, Malaysia and the UK together with various head office companies, which were also subject to audits of their complete financial information.
The companies within our scope accounted for 82% of the Groups revenue, 82% of the Groups operating profit and 79% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
Areas of focus Impairment of goodwill and intangibles Provisions for uncertain tax positions Defined benefit pension accounting The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified by our audit.
52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill and intangibles We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and The Group holds 313.5 million of goodwill and acquired the process by which they were drawn up and tested the intangible assets as set out in notes 13 and 14 to the mathematical accuracy of calculations within the forecasts.
We used our own knowledge and external market data in Management identifies the following two cash generating relation to items such as market and country risk premium units CGUs for the purposes of its impairment review, and to independently derive a weighted average cost of capital performs separate annual impairment assessments over for each of the CGUs subject to impairment reviews to goodwill and intangible asset balances in each: assess the appropriateness of the discount rates applied by management.
Europe and North America: and Asia and Rest of World.
We considered the reasonableness of managements growth rate assumptions in the context of the recent We focused on this area because of the size of the balances performance of the business in each of the CGUs and by involved in the context of the Groups balance sheet and comparison with external market data on growth rates within the fact that determining whether these assets are impaired the geographic areas where the CGUs operate.
involves a number of significant judgements.
As disclosed in note 13 to the financial statements, the principal We performed sensitivity testing on the forecasts, by assumptions underpinning managements impairment sensitising key assumptions in relation to growth rates and assessment are: discount rates, to assess the extent to which a change in Annual revenue growth of 2% for Europe and North any one or more of the key assumptions could indicate the America, and 5% for Asia and Rest of World: risk of an impairment.
Discount rates of 11% for Europe and North America and We also assessed managements historic forecasting 12% for Asia and Rest of World: and accuracy by comparing the 2014 results with the Groups The sustainability of year 10 profitability into perpetuity.
budget for 2014, considering the implications of this on Our audit work has focused on these key assumptions our assessment of the reliability of forecasts for 2015 and as we regard them as subject to the most judgement and future years.
as being those assumptions to which the impairment Based on the audit evidence obtained we did not identify assessment is most sensitive.
any indicators of impairment relation to goodwill or intangible assets held.
Defined benefit pension accounting We obtained detailed external actuarial reports of the UK As set out in note 25 on pages 88 to 91 the Group has and German schemes at the year end which set out the significant defined benefit pension schemes.
These primarily calculations and assumptions underpinning the year end represent the Yule Catto Group retirement benefits scheme pension scheme valuation.
in the UK and two unfunded schemes in Germany, which account for 147.4 million of the net pension deficit of We assessed the competency and objectivity of the 150.7 million recorded on the Group balance sheet at external actuaries commissioned by the Group to perform the year end.
the year end calculations by considering their technical expertise and independence from the Group.
We identified We focused on the pension liabilities in particular, as the no concerns over their competency or objectivity.
determination of the amounts reflected in the financial statements for defined benefits schemes is impacted to a We read the actuaries reports and were satisfied that the large degree by various assumptions as set out on page 89, scope of their work was such that we could use this work with the amount being sensitive to relatively small changes to provide evidence for the purpose of our audit.
in a few key assumptions, most notably the discount rate applied.
We used our own actuarial knowledge to evaluate all We also had regard to the fact that the Group uses the key assumptions used in each of the three schemes third-party actuaries to calculate the amounts to reflect by comparing these assumptions to our expectations in the financial statements in respect of these schemes.
for similar schemes as at the year end.
We found managements assumptions to be consistent with Our focus was therefore to assess the competency and our expectations and within an acceptable range.
objectivity of managements experts, the appropriateness of the scope of their work for the purposes of our audit and the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the net pension deficit.
Group financial statements Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 53 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions We used our tax knowledge to assess the level of provisions The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is held against various tax exposures and to consider their subject to a range of tax laws in a number of different tax appropriateness having regard to the nature of the individual jurisdictions.
In determining the amount to record at the exposures and any developments in the year.
year end for tax liabilities there is an element of judgement As part of this work we inspected correspondence with as to what amounts will ultimately be payable for assessed tax authorities and the Groups tax advisors.
the judgements made by assessing individual provisions As set out in note 8 at 31 December 2014, the Group against our expectations of potential exposures, having has recorded current tax liabilities totalling 32.7 million.
regard to the facts of each case, and where deemed A significant element of this tax liability relates to uncertain necessary, we involved PwC component auditors in the tax positions.
We focused on this area due to the size of the amounts No significant matters arose from this work to suggest involved and level of judgement needed to determine the that the judgements made and amounts recorded estimated provisions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As set out on page 12 the Group reports its results as two businesses: Europe and North America and Asia and Rest of World.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, being holding companies, intermediate holding companies and nineteen operating companies, across thirteen countries.
Three countries the UK, Germany and Malaysia account for the majority for the Groups results.
We accordingly focused our work on the six key reporting units in these countries which were subject to audits of their complete financial information.
These components accounted for 82% of the Groups revenue, 82% of the Groups operating profit and 79% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
In addition to the work at the six key reporting units we performed local statutory audit work in relation to the year ended 31 December 2014 at a number of other operating companies accounting for a further 14% of the Groups underlying operating profit with these teams reporting to the Group team any unadjusted items in excess of 200,000 from their work which was substantially completed as at the date of this opinion.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group team also attended the closing audit meetings in the largest overseas territories.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 3.8 million 2013 4.1 million.
How we determined it 4.5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have used underlying profit, being profit before tax adjusted for special items, because it is the principal metric against which the Groups financial performance is measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 2013 200,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 49, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
IAS UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 49, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 29, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report arising the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately from this responsibility.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Group financial statements Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 55 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 2014 the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 25 February 2015
