TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance withInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, theGroup cash flow statement, the Parent Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 28.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying as issued by the IASB with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by theIASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Chief Financial Officers Statement that the Group isagoingconcern.
Weconfirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubton the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described opposite are those that misstatement had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
42 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We tested the operating effectiveness of key IT and business controls over the customer billing systems.
Our tests assessed the operating effectiveness of Revenue recognition surrounding: controls put in place to ensure all services supplied to customers are input into the completeness over revenue due to the high andprocessed through the billing systems.
The majority of the This enabled us to obtain controls assurance over billing systems accounting for Groups revenue is generated from the output over 95% of total Group revenue.
We subsequently applied a combination of ofbilling systems: and substantive analytical review procedures and tests of detail to obtain assurance the accuracy and completeness of revenue over the validity and completeness of the reported output of these systems.
recognised on transactions which are outside the We performed substantive testing on a sample of non-systematic adjustments normal billing process, which by their nature carry which are outside of the normal billing process and therefore carry higher levels a higher level of management judgement.
These included revenue deferrals and the write back of historical credits applied to customer accounts to the income statement.
Disclosure of exceptional items and the In addition to understanding the composition of exceptional items and agreeing a presentation of adjusted measures in the sample of items to supporting documentation, we have challenged managements financial statements rationale for the presentation of items within the income statement as exceptional, particularly around the areas of higher judgement, such as dual-running, to ensure The disclosure of exceptional items and their the costs recognised as exceptional meet the criteria of the accounting policy presentation on the face of the income statement forsuch items defined by the Group within note 9.
This includes assessing the represents an audit risk given the level of incremental nature of the costs, the extent to which the costs are non-recurring, management judgement involved.
Areas of whether they are specific to individual projects and considering whether they particular audit focus in the current year are should be classified as part of underlying operations.
exceptional costs recognised in relation to dual running costs, internal labour costs and the Red Our work has also included a review, on a sample basis, of items included within Routers programme all of which we deem to carry the income statement to identify income and expenses which were exceptional a higher level of judgement.
The nature of these by nature but not separately identified.
costs have been defined in note 9 to the accounts.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model forgoodwill and intangible assets, including specifically the determination of Management is required to undertake an annual cashgenerating units, the forecast cash flow projections for each cash generating impairment review, which incorporates judgements unit and the discount rates.
In making this critical assessment of the cash flow based on assumptions of future cash flows, projections we assessed historical forecasting accuracy and compared forecast including assumptions around revenue growth, profit margins to historical margins and benchmarked the discount rate and growth margins and forecast cash flows, the selection rates employed to available market data.
We critically assessed managements ofappropriate discount rates and the assessment position as to whether or not a reasonably possible change to key operating of the Groups cash generating units.
assumptions could result in an impairment.
In doing so we considered the sensitivity of the asset valuations to these assumptions, in particular changes to the long term growth rate assumed and the growth of the TV and Fibre customer bases.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures set out in note 11 to the accounts.
Treatment and presentation of deferred tax assets We have reviewed correspondence with HMRC supporting the availability of these losses and have challenged managements forecasts of future taxable profits to The accounting treatment and presentation of the determine the appropriate quantum of Video Network losses to recognise as a measurement of deferred tax assets relating to deferred taxasset.
losses of Video Networks Limited acquired with Tiscali which have been disclosed within note 7.
Therecognition of these deferred tax assets are judgemental as a result of their nature and reliance on management forecasts.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 23.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
43 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable ofmateriality that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 6m 2013:8.2m.
In determining materiality, wemade allowance for the impact of the subscriber acquisition costs related to TV customers which has reduced current year profits.
Our materiality was therefore set by blending revenue and profit metrics to take this matter in to account.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality for the Group should be 70% ofplanning materiality, namely 4.2m.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality for the financial statements as whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excessof 120,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting onqualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overallpresentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including of our audit Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units, each of these was subject to a full audit and represent 95% of the Groups total assets andrevenues.
Specific focused audit work was performed over Group functions, including those covering treasury and taxation.
Our audit work at each division was executed at levels of materiality which were lowerthan Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures toconfirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which thefinancial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising fromthese matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the Annual opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report isfair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those mattersthat we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Weconfirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
44 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the of Directors and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 ofthe Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than theCompany and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sharon Thorne FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 14 May 2014 45
