Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TATE & LYLE PLC In establishing the overall approach to the Report on the Group financial What an audit of financial Group audit, we determined the type of work statements statementsinvolves that needed to be performed at the reporting We conducted our audit in accordance with Our opinion units by us, as the Group engagement team, International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion the Group financial statements of or component auditors from other PwC network Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries collectively rms operating under our instructions.
Where obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Group, dened below: the work was performed by component disclosures in the financial statements sufficient t give a true and fair view of the state of the auditors, we determined the level of involvement to give reasonable assurance that the financial Groups affairs as at 31 March 2014 and we needed to have in the audit work at those statements are free from material misstatement, of the Groups profit and cash ows for reporting units to be able to conclude whether whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes the year then ended: sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had an assessment of: t have been properly prepared in accordance been obtained as a basis for our opinion on t whether the accounting policies are with International Financial Reporting the Group financial statements as a whole.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Accordingly, we identied six reporting units and have been consistently applied and European Union: and which, in our view, required an audit of their adequately disclosed: t have been prepared in accordance with the complete financial information, either due to t the reasonableness of significant accounting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 their size or their risk characteristics.
In addition, estimates made by the Directors: and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
specic audit procedures on certain balances t the overall presentation of the financial This opinion is to be read in the context of what and transactions were performed at a further statements.
we say in the remainder of this report.
The procedures described In addition, we read all the financial and above provided coverage of 78% of the Groups What we have audited non-financial information in the Annual Report sales and 70% of the Groups profit before tax The Group financial statements, which are to identify material inconsistencies with the from continuing operations.
prepared by Tate & Lyle PLC, comprise: audited Group financial statements and to This, together with additional procedures at identify any information that is apparently t the consolidated statement of financial a Group level, including the audit of individual materially incorrect based on, or materially position as at 31 March 2014: transactions that were material to the Group inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by t the consolidated income statement and in operating businesses not subject to an audit us in the course of performing the audit.
If we consolidated statement of comprehensive of their complete financial information or where become aware of any apparent material income for the year then ended: specic audit procedures were not undertaken misstatements or inconsistencies we consider t the consolidated statement of changes in by component auditors, gave us the evidence the implications for our report.
equity and consolidated statement of cash we needed for our opinion on the Group ows for the year then ended: and Overview of our audit approach financial statements as a whole.
t the notes to the consolidated financial Materiality statements, which include a summary of Areas of particular audit focus We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These significant accounting policies and other In preparing the financial statements, the helped us to determine the nature, timing and explanatory information.
Directors made a number of subjective extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate judgements, for example in respect of the effect of misstatements, both individually The financial reporting framework that has significant accounting estimates that involved and on the financial statements as a whole.
been applied in their preparation comprises making assumptions and considering future applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the Based on our professional judgement, we events that are inherently uncertain.
determined materiality for the Group financial primarily focused our work in these areas statements as a whole to be 15 million, which Certain disclosures required by the financial by assessing the Directors judgements represents approximately 5% profit before tax reporting framework have been presented against available evidence, forming our own from continuing operations.
elsewhere in the Annual Report 2014 the judgements, and evaluating the disclosures Annual Report, rather than in the notes to in the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we the Group financial statements.
These are would report to them misstatements identied In our audit, we tested and examined cross-referenced from the Group financial during our audit above 1 million as well as information, using sampling and other auditing statements and are identied as audited.
misstatements below that amount that, in our techniques, to the extent we considered view, warranted reporting for qualitative necessary to provide a reasonable basis for reasons.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness Overview of the scope of our audit of controls, substantive procedures or The Group is primarily structured across two a combination of both.
divisions being Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients with a central support function.
We considered the following areas to be those The Group financial statements are a that required particular focus in the current year.
consolidation of the Groups reporting units, This is not a complete list of all risks or areas spread across the two divisions, which of focus identied by our audit.
We discussed comprise the Groups operating businesses these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
and centralised functions covering 35 countries.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 48.
74 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Commodity risk The Group uses corn and other commodity contracts We obtained an understanding of the risks associated with the valuation and pricing to manage and economically hedge its corn book within methodology used at the year end and compared it to the underlying accounting policy.
The US corn book, comprising the commodity We confirmed the open commodity positions with brokerage houses and re-performed contracts, inventory and purchase and sales contracts market price valuations for contracts on a sample basis to test the accuracy for corn and co-products, are marked to fair value at of the valuation.
the end of each reporting period.
The valuation at each We tested manual adjustments that were made to the valuations to check the reporting period has a substantial impact on the rationale on which they were based.
reported results of the US business and the Group.
In instances where commodities are not readily traded on an open market, Furthermore, the valuation can require a high we performed trend analyses against similar market traded commodities.
Refer to Notes 3, 19 and 20 to the Group financial statements.
Direct tax provisions The Directors are required to exercise significant We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and assessed judgement when determining the appropriate amount to key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments.
provide in respect of potential direct tax exposures relating We recalculated managements valuations of direct tax provisions and determined to challenges by the tax authorities on cross border whether the calculations were in line with the Groups methodology and principles arrangements and transfer pricing in various countries.
and whether they had been applied consistently with previousyears.
Refer to Notes 3, 11 and 29 to the Group We challenged the key underlying assumptions, having due regard for on-going financial statements.
correspondence between Group entities and local tax authorities.
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgements required in estimating the amount of provision required.
Changes in assumptions can materially affect the levels of provisions recorded in the financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities The Group operates material dened benefit pension We obtained an understanding of the assumptions used by the Groups actuaries and plans, giving rise to pension plan liabilities in the UK and management in calculating the retirement benefit obligations for the dened benefit the US.
The Group also operates a significant retirement pension plans in the UK and the US, and the retirement medical scheme in the US.
Having formed that understanding we challenged the key actuarial assumptions We focused on this area because of the magnitude of the including pension increases, salary increases, ination, discount rates and mortality, dened benefit pension plan liability and the retirement by comparing these to benchmark ranges based on market conditions and medical scheme in the context of the overall statement expectations at 31 March 2014 and comparison across the wider pensions industry.
Levels of judgement and technical We also confirmed whether the methods used by management to determine key expertise are required in choosing appropriate assumptions had been consistently applied year-on-year and evaluated the rationale assumptions to measure the plans and scheme liabilities.
for any changes in approach.
Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact We tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing liability for accuracy taking on the calculation of the liabilities.
into account the movements in key assumptions over the year and any changes Refer to Notes 3 and 30 to the Group financial statements.
made to benets provided within the schemes.
We compared membership census data used in the actuarial models to the payroll data held by the Group to determine that the data used in the actuarial calculations was complete and represented only genuine members.
Fraud in revenue recognition Auditing Standards ISAs UK & Ireland presume there We challenged the appropriateness of managements revenue recognition policies, is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition because of the particularly regarding the appropriate recording of sales around the year end date.
pressure management may feel to achieve the planned We performed a combination of testing of the financial controls around revenue results.
The Groups focus on revenue and profit targets recognition and testing of revenue recorded during the year, and testing of sales as a key performance indicator creates incentive for transactions and credit notes around the year-end date to determine whether the revenue to be recorded in the incorrect period.
Therefore, criteria for recording revenue had been met.
we focused on whether transactions have been recorded We tested revenue recorded through manual adjustments to determine whether those in the period in which the Group becomes entitled to manual entries corresponded to revenue transactions that had occurred in the period record revenue.
and met the Groups revenue recognition policies.
Risk of management override of internal controls Auditing Standards ISAs UK & Ireland require that we We tested key reconciliations and manual journal entries.
We also considered whether consider this.
there was evidence of bias by management in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
Furthermore, we assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We incorporated a number of unpredictable audit procedures into our work, including the audit of certain immaterial balances.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 75 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TATE & LYLE PLC | CONTINUED On page 73 of the Annual Report, as required This report, including the opinions, has been Going Concern by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state prepared for and only for the Companys Under the Listing Rules we are required to that they consider the Annual Report taken as members as a body in accordance with review the Directors statement, set out on a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act page 28, in relation to going concern.
We have and provides the information necessary for 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, nothing to report having performed our review.
members to assess the Groups performance, in giving these opinions, accept or assume As noted in the Directors statement, the business model and strategy.
On page 48, responsibility for any other purpose or to any Directors have concluded that it is appropriate as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit other person to whom this report is shown or to prepare the Group financial statements using Committee has set out the significant issues into whose hands it may come save where the going concern basis of accounting.
The that it considered in relation to the Group expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
going concern basis presumes that the Group financial statements, and how they were has adequate resources to remain in operation, Other matter addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at We have reported separately on the are required to report to you if, in our opinion: least one year from the date the Group financial Parent Company financial statements of t the statement given by the Directors is statements were signed.
As part of our audit we Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March have concluded that the Directors use of the materially inconsistent with our knowledge 2014 and on the information in the Directors of the Group acquired in the course of going concern basis is appropriate.
Remuneration Report that is described performing our audit: or as having been audited.
However, because not all future events or t the section of the Annual Report describing conditions can be predicted, these statements the work of the Audit Committee does not are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to appropriately address matters communicated continue as a going concern.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Opinions on other matter prescribed We have no exceptions to report arising from by the Companies Act 2006 this responsibility.
In our opinion the information given in the John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor Strategic Report and the Directors Report for Other information in the for and on behalf of the financial year for which the Group financial AnnualReport  LLP statements are prepared is consistent with the Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Group financial statements.
report to you if, in our opinion, information in London the Annual Report is: Other matters on which we are 28 May 2014 t materially inconsistent with the information in required to report by exception the audited Group financial statements: or Adequacy of information and t apparently materially incorrect based on, or explanations received Notes: materially inconsistent with, our knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required a The maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle of the Group acquired in the course of to report to you if, in our opinion we have not website www.
com is the responsibility performing our audit: or received all the information and explanations of the Directors: the work carried out by the t is otherwise misleading.
auditors does not involve consideration of these we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no to report arising from this responsibility.
We have no exceptions to report arising from responsibility for any changes that may have this responsibility.
occurred to the financial statements since they Directors remuneration were initially presented on the website.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Responsibilities for the financial b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing required to report to you if, in our opinion, statements and the audit the preparation and dissemination of financial certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Our responsibilities and those of statements may differ from legislation in other specified by law have not been made.
the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising As explained more fully in the Directors from this responsibility.
Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the Corporate Governance Statement preparation of the Group financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to and for being satisfied that they give a true and review the part of the Corporate Governance fair view.
Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Our responsibility is to audit and express Corporate Governance Code the Code.
an opinion on the Group financial statements We have nothing to report having performed in accordance with applicable law and ISAs our review.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
| Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 76
