Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 65 that the Group is a going concern.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the We confirm that: Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared financial statements is appropriate: and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as the Parent Company financial statements have been properly a going concern.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practices: and However, because not all future events or conditions can be the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards ability to continue as a going concern.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 33 and 1 to 16.
As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the we also test the design and implementation of internal controls over preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
In addition we also tested and IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial the operating effectiveness of these controls in relation to the first risk reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation presented in the table below: inventory costing.
of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory costing We tested a sample of sites as part of our visit to business units.
This We consider the appropriate recognition of costs into inventory and the included testing the allocation of costs across sites with multiple phases allocation of these between different sites, phases and plots, including to determine that the transfer of these costs was appropriate.
We shared costs such as land and infrastructure to be a significant risk.
also tested that shared costs were allocated across phases and plots appropriately by assessing the reasonableness of the methodology These affect the appropriateness of the margin recognised on each legal used and we independently recalculated this.
completion which directly impacts the level of profit that is recorded on each plot.
The accounting policy that relates to this risk is on page 103.
We tested the operating effectiveness of controls over this area in relation to the movement of costs across different phases and sites.
For a sample of individual plots, we tested additions to the inventory balance to determine whether the costs have been appropriately capitalised, by tracing these additions to supporting supplier invoices.
We also tested a sample of journals adding to the inventory balance to highlight any costs that should have been expensed.
93 93 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of inventory Management conduct a detailed exercise in the assessment of the carrying The value for inventory as at 31 December 2014 is 3,490.1 million value of sites.
We performed testing on the model completed as part of this 2013: 2,928.8 million and as such is the most significant value on and critically assessed the judgements and estimates that had been made the Balance Sheet page 99. within this.
This work included: Reviewing the accuracy of the calculations within the model and The carrying value of inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable identification of any anomalies in inputs: value is dependent on key judgements and estimates that are made by Performing a sensitivity analysis on the key judgements relating to management.
During the year the Group recorded net exceptional income the future expected sales price and costs: of 18.7 million 2013: 45.6m in relation to the write-back of inventory Assessing the estimated future sales prices used by management which was written down in value in previous years due to the deterioration by testing the historical sales prices that have been achieved and of wider market conditions and other site specific factors.
independent forecasts of anticipated future movements: The judgements relating to inventory include an estimation of future Testing a sample of inputs into the management prepared model by expected average sales prices and costs.
These judgements also reference to internal site specific information such as the costs incurred to include consideration of site specific factors and the developments date and the estimation of costs required to complete the sites: that individual locations have seen throughout the year.
The accounting As part of the audit we visit units throughout the business and we tested policy in relation to inventory is on page 105 and this is highlighted as the specific movements and accounting entries made in a critical accounting judgement by management and the Audit relation to these sites: Committee on page 106 and 64 respectively.
Obtaining evidence to support the current status of a sample of sites and that the site specific developments at each site are reflected in the valuation: and For sites where the value has been written back we have obtained the specific calculation prepared by management, corroborated the inputs that have led to the write-back and recalculated the value that should have been recorded as income.
Defined benefit pension scheme accounting We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the qualified The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance independent actuary engaged by the Group and the use of this expert sheet date is a liability of 182.4 million 2013: 182.2 million by management to perform the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
page 127 and the liabilities specifically are valued at 2,186.2 million We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness 2013: 2,035.2 million page 127. of the methodology and assumptions used to account for the defined Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities benefit scheme.
This included comparison of key data with market is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of the benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life actuary.
We considered whether each of the key assumptions was expectancy and mortality rates.
reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
These accounting judgements are inherently complex and require a high level of management judgement and specialist input by an actuary in the calculation of the value of the liabilities.
The accounting policy in relation to the accounting for employee benefits is on page 106.
Both management and the Audit Committee assess this to be a critical accounting judgement as detailed on page 106 and 64 respectively.
Revenue recognition We conducted testing in relation to the revenue recognised for social We consider there to be a risk in the revenue recognised in relation to housing revenue.
This testing involved both test of details and analytical social housing.
Different sources of revenue have different accounting procedures.
policies see page 102 and management have highlighted the revenue For a sample of contracts the following procedures were performed: recognised in relation to social housing as an area of increased judgement We tested the level of costs that have been recognised in relation on page 106.
The assessment of this risk by the Audit Committee is on to the site and obtained the certification for the works that have page 64.
This is because elements of the social housing revenue is been completed: accounted for on the basis of long term contract accounting.
Assessed the judgements in relation to the future profitability of This accounting requires management judgement to determine the the site with reference to the site budget: and appropriateness of calculating the revenue and profit to be recognised.
Recalculated the value that should be recognised at the balance This includes estimating the total expected costs to complete each site, sheet date based on the percentage completion.
the future profitability of the site and also the percentage of completion In addition we developed an expectation of the income that should be at the balance sheet date.
These judgements directly influence revenue recognised in the year from this revenue stream with reference to the that can be recognised in relation to social housing.
completion of plots across sites.
94 94 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued We audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries, which are subject Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk These risks remain consistent with the prior period with the exception to audit at statutory materiality level, which in most cases is of the implementation of the new business system.
We no longer substantially lower than Group materiality.
This is performed Carrying value of inventory Management conduct a detailed exercise in the assessment of the carrying consider this to have a significant impact on the financial statements subsequent to the audit of the Group accounts.
The value for inventory as at 31 December 2014 is 3,490.1 million value of sites.
We performed testing on the model completed as part of this as the system has been fully implemented across all business units.
2013: 2,928.8 million and as such is the most significant value on and critically assessed the judgements and estimates that had been made For the Spanish operations, component auditors report to us the Balance Sheet page 99. within this.
This work included: The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with on the risk in relation to the carrying value of the inventory located Reviewing the accuracy of the calculations within the model and the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed in Spain.
This was based on our assessment of the risks of material The carrying value of inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable identification of any anomalies in inputs: on page 64.
The accounting policies and critical judgements that form misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations value is dependent on key judgements and estimates that are made by Performing a sensitivity analysis on the key judgements relating to part of these risks can be found in Note 1 and 2 respectively.
During the year the Group recorded net exceptional income the future expected sales price and costs: of 18.7 million 2013: 45.6m in relation to the write-back of inventory Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the For joint ventures specified audit procedures are conducted by the UK Assessing the estimated future sales prices used by management which was written down in value in previous years due to the deterioration context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not team.
This is based on our assessment of risk within these entities.
by testing the historical sales prices that have been achieved and of wider market conditions and other site specific factors.
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our independent forecasts of anticipated future movements: At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to The judgements relating to inventory include an estimation of future Testing a sample of inputs into the management prepared model by and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion expected average sales prices and costs.
These judgements also reference to internal site specific information such as the costs incurred to that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of on these individual matters.
include consideration of site specific factors and the developments date and the estimation of costs required to complete the sites: the aggregated financial information of the remaining components that individual locations have seen throughout the year.
The accounting As part of the audit we visit units throughout the business and we tested Our application of materiality not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
policy in relation to inventory is on page 105 and this is highlighted as the specific movements and accounting entries made in We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the regional a critical accounting judgement by management and the Audit relation to these sites: statements that make it probable that the economic decisions of a business units within the Groups UK Housing division.
We choose Committee on page 106 and 64 respectively.
Obtaining evidence to support the current status of a sample of sites and reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
to visit a sample of regional business units selected on a rotational that the site specific developments at each site are reflected in We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and basis and with reference to size and complexity among other factors.
the valuation: and in evaluating the results of our work.
In addition we also visit other business units throughout the entity For sites where the value has been written back we have obtained the We determined materiality for the Group to be 22.5 million which are chosen on a random basis.
specific calculation prepared by management, corroborated the inputs 2013: 20.0 million, which is calculated based on 5% 2013: 7.5% that have led to the write-back and recalculated the value that should Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of pre-tax profit for the year excluding exceptional items of 450.1 have been recorded as income.
In our opinion: million on page 97.
The exceptional income is excluded as this directly Defined benefit pension scheme accounting We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the qualified relates to the write-back of the value of inventory rather than the core the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance independent actuary engaged by the Group and the use of this expert business of the sale of properties.
This basis has been chosen as this has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act sheet date is a liability of 182.4 million 2013: 182.2 million by management to perform the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
is the measure by which stakeholders and the market assess the 2006: and page 127 and the liabilities specifically are valued at 2,186.2 million We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness wider performance of the entity.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors 2013: 2,035.2 million page 127. of the methodology and assumptions used to account for the defined Report for the financial year for which the financial statements We have reduced the percentage basis for the calculation of Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities benefit scheme.
This included comparison of key data with market are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The continued improvement in the wider is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of the benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme economic environment and the impact on the profitability of the Group Matters on which we are required to report by exception discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life actuary.
We considered whether each of the key assumptions was means that, in our judgement, a level of 5%, is more appropriate.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records expectancy and mortality rates.
reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you liability at the balance sheet date.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the These accounting judgements are inherently complex and require a high if, in our opinion: Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.45 million 2013: level of management judgement and specialist input by an actuary in the 0.4 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our we have not received all the information and explanations calculation of the value of the liabilities.
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report we require for our audit: or The accounting policy in relation to the accounting for employee benefits to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent is on page 106.
Both management and the Audit Committee assess this when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received to be a critical accounting judgement as detailed on page 106 and 64 An overview of the scope of our audit from branches not visited by us: or respectively.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Revenue recognition We conducted testing in relation to the revenue recognised for social the accounting records and returns.
We consider there to be a risk in the revenue recognised in relation to housing revenue.
This testing involved both test of details and analytical assessing the risks of material misstatements at the Group level.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope social housing.
policies see page 102 and management have highlighted the revenue primarily on the audit work at the UK Housing division excluding For a sample of contracts the following procedures were performed: joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the recognised in relation to social housing as an area of increased judgement We tested the level of costs that have been recognised in relation on page 106.
The assessment of this risk by the Audit Committee is on Group and accounts for 98% 2013: 98% of the Groups net to the site and obtained the certification for the works that have operating assets, 99% 2013: 99% of the Groups revenue page 64.
and 99% 2013: 99% of the Groups profit on ordinary activities Assessed the judgements in relation to the future profitability of before exceptional income.
This accounting requires management judgement to determine the the site with reference to the site budget: and appropriateness of calculating the revenue and profit to be recognised.
94 95 95 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent Auditors Report continued Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Companys members those matters we are required to state to them audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Corporate Governance Statement as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part we have formed.
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Scope of the audit of the financial statements Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate in the Annual Report is: to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the financial statements: or Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the in the course of performing our audit: or audited financial statements and to identify any information that is otherwise misleading.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Edward Hanson, ACA Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
London, United Kingdom Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 2 March 2015 statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
