DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMbERS OF TED bAkER PLC ONLy sTaTeMenT oF DirecTors resPonsiBiliTies Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also oPinions anD conclusions arisinG FroM The risk: The Group has invested a significant amount of capital responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, outside the UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative in resPecT oF The annual rePorT anD The our auDiT Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period is Financial sTaTeMenTs 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
typically longer than for UK stores and it is not uncommon for The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We have audited the Financial Statements of Ted Baker Plc new stores in overseas territories - as is anticipated in the original and the Group and Parent company Financial Statements in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and for the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2014 set out on pages business case - to make losses in their start up phase.
The level accordance with applicable law and regulations.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 47 to 82.
In our opinion: of judgment involved in assessing impairment indicators on on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing recently opened retail stores in foreign markets is one of the the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs Parent company Financial Statements for each financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
as at 25 January 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group our response: Our audit procedures included, among year then ended: Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of others, challenging the Directors on the evidence on which by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements have been properly this report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: they based their assessment as to when an impairment the parent company Financial Statements on the same basis.
prepared in accordance with International Financial indicator exists for loss making stores and therefore a need each of the Group and Parent company Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union for impairment testing arises.
This included comparing the Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS gives Under company law the directors must not approve the IFRSs as adopted by the EU : performance of retail stores to the original business case, a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give the Parent company Financial Statements have been comparing relative performance of stores within each position and profit or loss of the issuer and the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted region and considering whether the Directors assessment undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In by the EU and as applied in accordance with the was in line with our overall understanding of the maturity whole: and preparing each of the Group and parent company Financial provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and of the brand in each location.
We have also considered the management report on pages 7 to 12 includes a Statements, the directors are required to: the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the Financial Statements have been prepared in fair review of the development and performance of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them impairment of retail fixed assets.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act the business and the position of the company and the consistently: 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Legal claim Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and prudent: Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 and uncertainties that they face.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement state whether they have been prepared in accordance accounting policy note and page 82 financial disclosures.
In addition, all directors consider that the Annual Report, taken In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and The risk: The Group is pursuing a claim against its previous as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern insurers for loss of profit arising from the theft of inventory the information necessary for shareholders to assess the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the from its warehouse from 2004 to 2008.
The level of judgment companys performance, business model and strategy.
Group and the Parent company will continue in business.
Valuation of inventory involved in determining the recognition and amount of any On behalf of the Board contingent asset arising from a successful outcome of Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting accounting policy note and page 69 financial disclosures.
the claim or any unrecognised contingent liability should records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent the Group be unsuccessful in its claim is one of the key companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy r s kelvin l D Page The risk: Inventory is carried in the Financial Statements at the judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
at any time the financial position of the parent company and Chief Executive Finance Director lower of cost and net realisable value.
Sales in the fashion industry enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply can be extremely volatile with consumer demand changing 20 March 2014 20 March 2014 our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility significantly based on current trends.
As a result there is a risk that challenging the Directors on the evidence on which they for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to the carrying value of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
based their assessment of the outcome of the claim.
We safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect inspected the latest reports from forensic expert witnesses our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, fraud and other irregularities.
for both parties, inspected relevant correspondence from the challenging the adequacy of the Groups provisions against courts.
We also assessed the experience and professional inventory by seasonal collection which we corroborated on a sample standing of the Groups external counsel.
basis by testing that items on the stock ageing listing by season were classified in the appropriate ageing bracket.
We assessed We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups the appropriateness of the provision percentages applied to each disclosures in respect of the claim.
season and challenged the assumptions made by the Directors on the extent to which old inventory can be sold through various 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of channels.
We considered the historical accuracy of provisioning the scope of our audit and used the information obtained as evidence for evaluating the The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a appropriateness of the assumptions made in the current year including how these compare to the experience in previous years.
This has been determined with We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, in respect of the levels of provisions against inventory.
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial Valuation of retail fixed assets performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 5.91% of Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 Group profit before tax and 5.75% adjusted for exceptional accounting policy note and page 66 financial disclosures.
items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 43 44 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMbERS OF TED bAkER PLC ONLy We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all In particular, we are required to report to you if: corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified we have identified material inconsistencies between through our audit with a value in excess of 0.1 million the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the impacting the income statement and 0.2 million for directors statement that they consider that the annual balance sheet reclassifications only, in addition to other report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe fair, balanced and understandable and provides the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the the Corporate Governance section of the annual report Group audit team in the UK and specified audit procedures describing the work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee were performed by component auditors in the USA.
In does not appropriately address matters communicated by addition the Group audit team undertook a review of the us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
financial information of the Components in Japan, China, France, Germany, South Korea, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Netherlands and Ireland.
These Group procedures covered to you if, in our opinion: 98.3% of total Group revenue: 98.9% of the total profits and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the losses that made up Group profit before taxation: and 99.7% parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have of total Group assets.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or The audit undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key the parent company Financial Statements and the part of reporting components of the company the USA and the UK the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not were performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the Group audit team.
Materiality levels were set individually certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified for each component and agreed with the Group audit team by law are not made: or and ranged from 1.0 million to 2.0 million.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to component auditors in the USA.
These instructions covered the significant audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above the directors statement, set out on page 43, in relation to going concern: and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team held telephone the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on meetings with the auditors in the USA.
page 13 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Code specified for our review.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In our opinion: Scope of report and responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Companies Act 2006: and Statement set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being the information given in the Strategic Report and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of Directors Report for the financial year for which the the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our on which we are required to report by exception website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a which Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, have identified other information in the annual report that the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, Mike Barradell or that is otherwise misleading.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants, 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 20 March 2014 45
