92 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Materiality Overall group materiality: 4.8m which represents 5% of Telecity Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent profit before tax.
Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Audit scope Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the We conducted audit work in 5 countries reporting units.
Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The reporting units addressed by our audit scope accounted the Group financial statements have been properly prepared for 83% of the Groups revenues and 88% of the Groups profit in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards before tax.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The most significant of the 11 reporting units, the UK, representing the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 42% of the Group by revenue and 47% of the Group by profit prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European before tax, as audited by the group engagement team.
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The Netherlands and Ireland are both significant reporting Companies Act 2006: and units which were visited by the group engagement team during the financial statements have been prepared in accordance the year and represent collectively 18% of the Group by revenue with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards and 27% profit before tax.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Areas of focus What we have audited Potential impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and data Telecity Group plcs financial statements comprise: centre property, plant and equipment and related investments held in the parent entity.
the consolidated and company balance sheets as at Additions to, and depreciation of, data centre related property, 31 December 2014: plant and equipment.
the consolidated income statement and the consolidated Presentation of exceptional items.
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended : the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated net debt statement as at 31 December 2014: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Annual Report and accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs to fraud.
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 93 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Potential impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and data We evaluated and challenged managements future cash flow Our opinion Overview centre property, plant and equipment and related investments projections, used to determine the value in use of its assets, and In our opinion: Materiality held in the parent entity the process by which the forecasts were generated and approved, Overall group materiality: 4.8m which represents 5% of Telecity Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent including testing the underlying calculations and assumptions.
The Group has significant asset balances, including goodwill at profit before tax.
Company financial statements the financial statements We challenged: 31 December 2014 of 112m and other intangible assets, primarily give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Audit scope customer contracts, of 46m.
the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the We conducted audit work in 5 countries reporting units.
forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic Under International Accounting Standard 36, management is Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The reporting units addressed by our audit scope accounted and industry forecasts: required to assess the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-life the Group financial statements have been properly prepared for 83% of the Groups revenues and 88% of the Groups profit the discount rate, focusing in particular on those applied to Turkey, intangible assets annually.
Assessment of impairment is, by its nature, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards before tax.
Bulgaria and Poland, by assessing them against the cost of capital highly judgemental and requires careful assessment of key IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The most significant of the 11 reporting units, the UK, representing for the Group.
assumptions underlying the models and detailed cash flow forecasts.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 42% of the Group by revenue and 47% of the Group by profit The risk is that these balances are overstated.
We also assessed the net present values calculated by management prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European before tax, as audited by the group engagement team.
on an aggregate basis, comparing the total value to the year-end Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The Netherlands and Ireland are both significant reporting We focused in particular on the valuation and recoverability enterprise value of Telecity Group plc which did not give rise to any Companies Act 2006: and units which were visited by the group engagement team during of recently acquired assets, specifically, in Turkey in respect of risk of impairment.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance the year and represent collectively 18% of the Group by revenue which management made an impairment charge, Bulgaria and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards and 27% profit before tax.
Management has impaired the goodwill arising on acquisition We performed our own sensitivity tests by comparing the carrying the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
values of all cash generating units CGUs at the year end to the Areas of focus net present value of future cash flows applying more conservative What we have audited Potential impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and data estimates of discount rates and growth rates.
Telecity Group plcs financial statements comprise: centre property, plant and equipment and related investments held in the parent entity.
We assessed the assumptions used in relation to the impairment the consolidated and company balance sheets as at Additions to, and depreciation of, data centre related property, in Turkey and considered the discount rate and growth rate to be 31 December 2014: plant and equipment.
appropriate based on discount rates, and the expected growth, the consolidated income statement and the consolidated Presentation of exceptional items.
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended : the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Having ascertained the extent of change in the assumptions that the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity We conducted our audit in accordance with International either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
to be impaired we considered the likelihood of such a movement in the consolidated net debt statement as at 31 December 2014: and those key assumptions and the disclosures on sensitivity analyses We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of set out in note 15 and noted no further impairment, which is consistent the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
with managements assessment in note 15.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Additions to and depreciation of data centre related property, We performed controls testing focused on the capitalisation of costs Annual Report and accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future plant and equipment into new builds during the year and the trigger points the principles in the notes to the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, we also of which were deemed to be reasonable for capitalisation and During the course of the year the Group incurred cash expenditure from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, depreciation.
Substantive testing procedures were performed of 129m on assets which were capitalised as part of Property, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the which comprised: Plant and Equipment, primarily relating to costs incurred on the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due construction, expansion and upgrading of data centres classified Testing new assets capitalised during the year to supporting preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs to fraud.
by the Group as investment spend.
documentation: as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Testing both the timing of when depreciation begun and the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on In addition, the depreciation charge for assets available for use by appropriateness of the depreciation period by comparing useful the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, customers amounted to 49m.
There are elements of judgement in economic lives to the actual usage of the assets: and are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also both capitalising and depreciating assets.
Performing substantive analytics over the depreciation expense.
set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in The key judgements relating to the additions to and depreciation order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, Our testing did not identify any material exceptions or misstatements.
of property, plant and equipment are the dates of recognition of and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should capital assets and the related date at which depreciation begins.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified Presentation of exceptional items For costs separately disclosed as exceptional items we: by our audit.
The Group has incurred and separately disclosed exceptional items: Agreed amounts to supporting documentation: 12m impairment in respect of the Turkish business and Assessed whether the classification as exceptional was consistent associated items: with the Group accounting policy in particular focusing on the nature of the items to check they are non-recurring and that the 3.1m increase in onerous lease provision underlying judgements, particularly in respect of the impairment 1.8m spent on business analysis fees: and and onerous leases are reasonable: 1.6m relating to the departure of the Chief Executive Officer Checked that the grouping of exceptional items by nature was Separately identifying and disclosing items as exceptional on the appropriate and that no material transactions were improperly face of the income statement requires judgement.
If items are netted off through this presentation.
inappropriately classified as exceptional, such presentation could No misstatements were identified based on these procedures.
misrepresent the results of the Company or give undue prominence to non-statutory disclosures.
94 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent Group operates.
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group operates colocation data centre services in key markets in the UK and Europe.
As outlined in the Annual Report, the European Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality operations are based in 11 countries which align to reporting units, for the financial statements as a whole as follows: as well as a number of head office companies.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
determined the significance of, and risk associated with, specific Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year we reporting units as well as the type and level of work that needed to applied have applied this benchmark, be performed in order to provide assurance on the Group financial a generally accepted auditing statements as a whole.
Where the work was performed by practice, in the absence of component auditors, which included both PwC network firms and indicators that an alternative another firm, we determined the level of involvement in the audit benchmark would be work at those reporting units in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate.
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to We identified four reporting units being the UK, Netherlands, them misstatements identified during our audit above 240,000 Ireland and Sweden which, in our view, based on their size or their 2013: 218,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, risk characteristics, required an audit of their complete financial in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and Going concern transactions were performed at one additional reporting unit and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors two head office companies.
statement, set out on page 133, in relation to going concern.
We have This, together with additional procedures performed at the nothing to report having performed our review.
Group level on the remaining six reporting units, goodwill impairment As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded and related investments, going concern assessments, exceptional that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using items and additions to data centre property, plant and equipment the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate financial statements as a whole.
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 95 How we tailored the audit scope Materiality Other required reporting We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements materiality.
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to In our opinion: the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Group operates.
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group operates colocation data centre services in key markets the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 42 to 89 with respect to internal control and risk in the UK and Europe.
As outlined in the Annual Report, the European Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
operations are based in 11 countries which align to reporting units, for the financial statements as a whole as follows: ISAs UK & Ireland reporting as well as a number of head office companies.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report Overall group materiality 4.8m 2013: 4.4 million.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we arising from this responsibility.
Information in the Annual Report and accounts 2014 the Annual Report is: How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
determined the significance of, and risk associated with, specific materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year we reporting units as well as the type and level of work that needed to applied have applied this benchmark, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of be performed in order to provide assurance on the Group financial a generally accepted auditing the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or statements as a whole.
Where the work was performed by practice, in the absence of component auditors, which included both PwC network firms and otherwise misleading.
indicators that an alternative another firm, we determined the level of involvement in the audit the statement given by the Directors on page 135, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report benchmark would be work at those reporting units in order to conclude whether sufficient UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a arising from this responsibility.
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy We identified four reporting units being the UK, Netherlands, them misstatements identified during our audit above 240,000 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the Ireland and Sweden which, in our view, based on their size or their 2013: 218,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, course of performing our audit.
risk characteristics, required an audit of their complete financial in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 52 to 56, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, information.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and We have no exceptions to report Going concern describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
transactions were performed at one additional reporting unit and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have This, together with additional procedures performed at the Adequacy of accounting records and information and Corporate governance statement nothing to report having performed our review.
Group level on the remaining six reporting units, goodwill impairment explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded and related investments, going concern assessments, exceptional Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using items and additions to data centre property, plant and equipment if, in our opinion: prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no exceptions to report the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group arising from this responsibility.
we have not received all the information and explanations presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate financial statements as a whole.
we require for our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded received from branches not visited by us: or Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of However, because not all future events or conditions can be the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups agreement with the accounting records and returns.
and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Report of the Remuneration Committee Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
96 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors Our responsibilities and those of the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We test and examine information, using sampling and other statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices procedures or a combination of both.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 audited financial statements and to identify any information that of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Jaskamal Sarai Senior Statutory Auditor whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups for and on behalf of  LLP and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed: London the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and 10 February 2015 the overall presentation of the financial statements
